{"date": "2008-03-20T17:22:48Z", "country": "china", "content": "A senior Chinese government official has said that he welcomes closer international ties to develop the country's burgeoning digital media sector, but also delivered a stark warning to foreigners not to use \"internet issues\" to meddle in China's \"internal affairs\".Cai Mingzhao, a vice minister at the Chinese state council information office, articulated his government's policy on digital media in a UK-China roundtable held at Reuters' offices in Canary Wharf today.The day-long event was attended by a large number of Chinese officials and business people, including Ma Yun, also known as Jack Ma - the founder of e-commerce business Alibaba Group and China's answer to Bill Gates - as well as Fu Ying, China's ambassador to the UK.Cai's keynote speech mixed encouraging comment on making the \"bridge increasingly wide\" between China's internet sector and foreign companies and a careful articulation of the country's strong stance on content control.He acknowledged that the internet policies of the Chinese authorities had come in for criticism arguing that the \"reasons behind these grievances might be quite complex\".These misunderstandings have arisen for reasons including a \"lack of knowledge\" of Chinese government policies by foreign companies or cultural differences, Cai added.\"[We are] willing to draw useful lessons from other countries to improve ways of building and regulating the internet,\" he said, before adding a strong word of caution. \"Any attempt to use internet issues to interfere in China's internal affairs is definitely opposed\".Cai said that news, video games and entertainment had proved popular online in China and that the government at various levels was making efforts to improve the \"news releasing mechanism\" in the country.He added that there was no question that the Chinese government recognised the importance of the internet but that development had to go hand-in-hand with traditional cultural values such as harmony, honesty, self-discipline and good will.Problems including pornography, violence, fraud, spam, hackers, false information and viruses, which are \"rampant\" online, are \"against these concepts and are widely denounced in China\", Cai said.At least part of the solution, he said, was to look at exchanges of various forms with \"professional internet institutes\", naming the Internet Watch Foundation as one example.\u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.\u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".\u00b7 This article was amended on Thursday March 27 2008. In the article above we originally referred to Cai Mingzhao as simply 'Mingzhao', after the first mention of him. In fact, we should have referred to him further as 'Cai', in accordance with the rules concerning Chinese names. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Digital media", "Media", "China", "Technology", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China sidesteps internet criticism"},{"date": "2008-03-20T17:22:48Z", "country": "china", "content": "A senior Chinese government official has said that he welcomes closer international ties to develop the country's burgeoning digital media sector, but also delivered a stark warning to foreigners not to use \"internet issues\" to meddle in China's \"internal affairs\".Cai Mingzhao, a vice minister at the Chinese state council information office, articulated his government's policy on digital media in a UK-China roundtable held at Reuters' offices in Canary Wharf today.The day-long event was attended by a large number of Chinese officials and business people, including Ma Yun, also known as Jack Ma - the founder of e-commerce business Alibaba Group and China's answer to Bill Gates - as well as Fu Ying, China's ambassador to the UK.Cai's keynote speech mixed encouraging comment on making the \"bridge increasingly wide\" between China's internet sector and foreign companies and a careful articulation of the country's strong stance on content control.He acknowledged that the internet policies of the Chinese authorities had come in for criticism arguing that the \"reasons behind these grievances might be quite complex\".These misunderstandings have arisen for reasons including a \"lack of knowledge\" of Chinese government policies by foreign companies or cultural differences, Cai added.\"[We are] willing to draw useful lessons from other countries to improve ways of building and regulating the internet,\" he said, before adding a strong word of caution. \"Any attempt to use internet issues to interfere in China's internal affairs is definitely opposed\".Cai said that news, video games and entertainment had proved popular online in China and that the government at various levels was making efforts to improve the \"news releasing mechanism\" in the country.He added that there was no question that the Chinese government recognised the importance of the internet but that development had to go hand-in-hand with traditional cultural values such as harmony, honesty, self-discipline and good will.Problems including pornography, violence, fraud, spam, hackers, false information and viruses, which are \"rampant\" online, are \"against these concepts and are widely denounced in China\", Cai said.At least part of the solution, he said, was to look at exchanges of various forms with \"professional internet institutes\", naming the Internet Watch Foundation as one example.\u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.\u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".\u00b7 This article was amended on Thursday March 27 2008. In the article above we originally referred to Cai Mingzhao as simply 'Mingzhao', after the first mention of him. In fact, we should have referred to him further as 'Cai', in accordance with the rules concerning Chinese names. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Digital media", "Media", "China", "Technology", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China sidesteps internet criticism"},{"date": "2008-03-11T07:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "A few days before the lunar new year holiday in early February, southern China was hit by the fiercest snow and ice storms in half a century. The lives of over one hundred million people in 21 provinces were thrown into chaos and about one 10th of China's forests were destroyed or damaged. According to official figures - and we can assume they underestimate the scale of the devastation - there were 129 deaths, 1.66 million people made homeless, 151 billion Yuan in losses and 15.8 million livestock killed. What made the storm into the \"perfect storm\" is that it hit at the peak travel season, as tens of millions of migrant workers were heading home for the annual new year festivities. The heart-wrenching images of nearly one million migrant workers stranded in Guangzhou's train station were beamed the world over.Much of the western reporting - prior to the Olympics, foreign journalists have been given the right to travel around the country without restrictions - focused on the possibility of social unrest and mass mobilisation against the party. It was noted that the gathering of migrant workers in Guangzhou was the largest gathering of people since the pro-democracy demonstrators in Tiananmen Square. Such headlines as \"Cold Chinese grow angry over lack of preparation\" suggested that the Chinese government may not be able to manage the potentially explosive scenes in Guangzhou and elsewhere. Yet the government seems to have emerged relatively unscathed. At the very least, they defused the anger of the crowds without the sort of violence deployed on June 4 1989. Why the different outcomes?Needless to say, the snowstorm is a natural disaster that can't be blamed on the government. The Earth is supposed to be getting warmer, not colder, and yet southern China was hit by an almost unheard of cold spell. Perhaps the worst hit city was Chenzhou, a city of 4.6 million at the southern most tip of Hunan province that was covered in snow and ice and had no access to water, electricity, or heat for 10 days. The ice made it particularly difficult for public authorities: think of the Great Ice Storm in Montreal ten years ago in a relatively poor city twice the size. In normal times, Chenzhou is known for its vast, subtropical forests and year round temperatures of about 18 degrees celsius. Governments need to plan for emergencies, but it's hard to imagine any government not being caught offguard by such unlikely scenarios.Still, the government's reaction to such disasters can undermine its legitimacy. Chicago was hit by a huge snowstorm in January 1979, and the slow snow removal combined with the mayor's careless approach to the media is widely believed to have led to the mayor's defeat in the Feb. 27 election. The Bush administration's seemingly indifferent and incompetent response to Hurricane Katrina's devastation of New Orleans led to widespread outrage. Of course, China is different. The government is not subject to democratic accountability and the state-controlled media won't report too much bad news, especially if it implicates government officials. But authoritarian politics isn't the only reason for the lack of political payback.For one thing, the media isn't as tightly controlled as it used to be. The Hong Kong media was openly critical of the government's response to the natural disaster - blaming the railway ministry for blockage in Guangzhou and the lack of coordination for problems elsewhere - and people in Guangdong province often have access to Hong Kong TV and newspapers (even in Beijing, the South China Morning Post newspaper is sold in restaurants, hotels, and here on the Tsinghua campus). Some critical reporting also filtered through the mainstream media. And the internet was filled with horror stories that blamed weather forecasters and government officials.Perhaps the key point is the government seems to care about public opinion more than it used to: or at least, it knows how to project a caring image. Prime Minister Wen Jiabao spent the lunar new year going to various disaster sites and apologizing for the disruption caused by the winter storm (the last apology by a Chinese leader to disgruntled crowds was delivered by then premier Zhao Ziyang when he apologised to pro-democracy students in Tiananmen Square shortly before he was deposed; Wen Jiabao was at Zhao's side at the time). President Hu Jintao ventured into minus-20 conditions in an underground mine to encourage miners to work through the holidays so that energy could be restored in the disaster-affected areas. Other Politburo members and lower-level government officials cancelled their own holidays to coordinate relief efforts. Over 300,000 People's Liberation Army soldiers were deployed to help deal with the disaster, including 80,000 troops sent to de-ice part of the highway that runs through Chenzhou. One million militia and reservists as well as half a million police were dispatched to key railway and highway points to maintain order and ease ten kilometre long traffic jams. As with most things in China, the numbers boggle the mind.The caring image extended to the Spring Festival Gala, the variety television show watched by about half of China's population on the eve of the lunar new year. Normally the skits are prepared and rehearsed long in advance, but this year's show featured some of China's biggest entertainment stars in a song honouring those affected by the \"merciless snow\" as well as shots of migrant workers forced to stay behind during the new year holiday (12.5 million workers in Guangdong alone). The government also took concrete measures for such workers, such as capping the prices of basic foodstuffs and subsidising new year parties for those who could not make it home.Let me conclude with two observations. It could be that government control of the media explains the lack of social unrest in response to the \"perfect storm\". But even if the Chinese political system opens up - as I hope it will - at least two features will continue to mark it off from western-style liberal democracies. First is the need for a highly centralised state to deal with such \"natural\" catastrophes. The country's dependence on coal was manifest during the crisis, and the consequences for global warming are ominous. What will happen once the oceans begin to flood Beijing and Shanghai, as predicted in Al Gore's film An Inconvenient Truth? It's hard to imagine a response that doesn't involve massive mobilisation of manpower and resources. Half a century ago, the German thinker Karl Wittfogel argued that water control and distribution had spawned authoritarian centralised regimes and sprawling bureaucracies in China. Perhaps it's possible to combine more democratic forms of rule with highly centralised regimes. But it's an argument that needs to be made.Second is the need for the media to portray moral exemplars, appeal to people's better nature, and help to generate sympathy for the disadvantaged. The importance of moral education is perhaps the least controversial part of China's Confucian heritage (and its \"communist\" updates) and it has implications for the way for think about the role of media in Chinese society. Yes, there can and should be more independent and critical media in China that tells the truth about social problems and blames the government when it's at fault. But it doesn't follow that complete separation of media and government is the best way forward. Privatisation might just lead to titillating news reporting that diverts attention away from real problems. So the task will be to steer between an authoritarian model of media control and a free market model that doesn't take sides with anyone. The resulting model - perhaps looser constraints on private media combined with a government-funded service that has the mandate to strive not for the party's interests but for widely endorsed social values like concern for the poor and filial piety - may strike westerners as moralising and paternalistic, but there are areas of justifiable difference that need to be tolerated, if not respected.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "A thaw in China"},{"date": "2008-03-20T17:22:48Z", "country": "china", "content": "A senior Chinese government official has said that he welcomes closer international ties to develop the country's burgeoning digital media sector, but also delivered a stark warning to foreigners not to use \"internet issues\" to meddle in China's \"internal affairs\".Cai Mingzhao, a vice minister at the Chinese state council information office, articulated his government's policy on digital media in a UK-China roundtable held at Reuters' offices in Canary Wharf today.The day-long event was attended by a large number of Chinese officials and business people, including Ma Yun, also known as Jack Ma - the founder of e-commerce business Alibaba Group and China's answer to Bill Gates - as well as Fu Ying, China's ambassador to the UK.Cai's keynote speech mixed encouraging comment on making the \"bridge increasingly wide\" between China's internet sector and foreign companies and a careful articulation of the country's strong stance on content control.He acknowledged that the internet policies of the Chinese authorities had come in for criticism arguing that the \"reasons behind these grievances might be quite complex\".These misunderstandings have arisen for reasons including a \"lack of knowledge\" of Chinese government policies by foreign companies or cultural differences, Cai added.\"[We are] willing to draw useful lessons from other countries to improve ways of building and regulating the internet,\" he said, before adding a strong word of caution. \"Any attempt to use internet issues to interfere in China's internal affairs is definitely opposed\".Cai said that news, video games and entertainment had proved popular online in China and that the government at various levels was making efforts to improve the \"news releasing mechanism\" in the country.He added that there was no question that the Chinese government recognised the importance of the internet but that development had to go hand-in-hand with traditional cultural values such as harmony, honesty, self-discipline and good will.Problems including pornography, violence, fraud, spam, hackers, false information and viruses, which are \"rampant\" online, are \"against these concepts and are widely denounced in China\", Cai said.At least part of the solution, he said, was to look at exchanges of various forms with \"professional internet institutes\", naming the Internet Watch Foundation as one example.\u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.\u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".\u00b7 This article was amended on Thursday March 27 2008. In the article above we originally referred to Cai Mingzhao as simply 'Mingzhao', after the first mention of him. In fact, we should have referred to him further as 'Cai', in accordance with the rules concerning Chinese names. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Digital media", "Media", "China", "Technology", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China sidesteps internet criticism"},{"date": "2008-03-11T07:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "A few days before the lunar new year holiday in early February, southern China was hit by the fiercest snow and ice storms in half a century. The lives of over one hundred million people in 21 provinces were thrown into chaos and about one 10th of China's forests were destroyed or damaged. According to official figures - and we can assume they underestimate the scale of the devastation - there were 129 deaths, 1.66 million people made homeless, 151 billion Yuan in losses and 15.8 million livestock killed. What made the storm into the \"perfect storm\" is that it hit at the peak travel season, as tens of millions of migrant workers were heading home for the annual new year festivities. The heart-wrenching images of nearly one million migrant workers stranded in Guangzhou's train station were beamed the world over.Much of the western reporting - prior to the Olympics, foreign journalists have been given the right to travel around the country without restrictions - focused on the possibility of social unrest and mass mobilisation against the party. It was noted that the gathering of migrant workers in Guangzhou was the largest gathering of people since the pro-democracy demonstrators in Tiananmen Square. Such headlines as \"Cold Chinese grow angry over lack of preparation\" suggested that the Chinese government may not be able to manage the potentially explosive scenes in Guangzhou and elsewhere. Yet the government seems to have emerged relatively unscathed. At the very least, they defused the anger of the crowds without the sort of violence deployed on June 4 1989. Why the different outcomes?Needless to say, the snowstorm is a natural disaster that can't be blamed on the government. The Earth is supposed to be getting warmer, not colder, and yet southern China was hit by an almost unheard of cold spell. Perhaps the worst hit city was Chenzhou, a city of 4.6 million at the southern most tip of Hunan province that was covered in snow and ice and had no access to water, electricity, or heat for 10 days. The ice made it particularly difficult for public authorities: think of the Great Ice Storm in Montreal ten years ago in a relatively poor city twice the size. In normal times, Chenzhou is known for its vast, subtropical forests and year round temperatures of about 18 degrees celsius. Governments need to plan for emergencies, but it's hard to imagine any government not being caught offguard by such unlikely scenarios.Still, the government's reaction to such disasters can undermine its legitimacy. Chicago was hit by a huge snowstorm in January 1979, and the slow snow removal combined with the mayor's careless approach to the media is widely believed to have led to the mayor's defeat in the Feb. 27 election. The Bush administration's seemingly indifferent and incompetent response to Hurricane Katrina's devastation of New Orleans led to widespread outrage. Of course, China is different. The government is not subject to democratic accountability and the state-controlled media won't report too much bad news, especially if it implicates government officials. But authoritarian politics isn't the only reason for the lack of political payback.For one thing, the media isn't as tightly controlled as it used to be. The Hong Kong media was openly critical of the government's response to the natural disaster - blaming the railway ministry for blockage in Guangzhou and the lack of coordination for problems elsewhere - and people in Guangdong province often have access to Hong Kong TV and newspapers (even in Beijing, the South China Morning Post newspaper is sold in restaurants, hotels, and here on the Tsinghua campus). Some critical reporting also filtered through the mainstream media. And the internet was filled with horror stories that blamed weather forecasters and government officials.Perhaps the key point is the government seems to care about public opinion more than it used to: or at least, it knows how to project a caring image. Prime Minister Wen Jiabao spent the lunar new year going to various disaster sites and apologizing for the disruption caused by the winter storm (the last apology by a Chinese leader to disgruntled crowds was delivered by then premier Zhao Ziyang when he apologised to pro-democracy students in Tiananmen Square shortly before he was deposed; Wen Jiabao was at Zhao's side at the time). President Hu Jintao ventured into minus-20 conditions in an underground mine to encourage miners to work through the holidays so that energy could be restored in the disaster-affected areas. Other Politburo members and lower-level government officials cancelled their own holidays to coordinate relief efforts. Over 300,000 People's Liberation Army soldiers were deployed to help deal with the disaster, including 80,000 troops sent to de-ice part of the highway that runs through Chenzhou. One million militia and reservists as well as half a million police were dispatched to key railway and highway points to maintain order and ease ten kilometre long traffic jams. As with most things in China, the numbers boggle the mind.The caring image extended to the Spring Festival Gala, the variety television show watched by about half of China's population on the eve of the lunar new year. Normally the skits are prepared and rehearsed long in advance, but this year's show featured some of China's biggest entertainment stars in a song honouring those affected by the \"merciless snow\" as well as shots of migrant workers forced to stay behind during the new year holiday (12.5 million workers in Guangdong alone). The government also took concrete measures for such workers, such as capping the prices of basic foodstuffs and subsidising new year parties for those who could not make it home.Let me conclude with two observations. It could be that government control of the media explains the lack of social unrest in response to the \"perfect storm\". But even if the Chinese political system opens up - as I hope it will - at least two features will continue to mark it off from western-style liberal democracies. First is the need for a highly centralised state to deal with such \"natural\" catastrophes. The country's dependence on coal was manifest during the crisis, and the consequences for global warming are ominous. What will happen once the oceans begin to flood Beijing and Shanghai, as predicted in Al Gore's film An Inconvenient Truth? It's hard to imagine a response that doesn't involve massive mobilisation of manpower and resources. Half a century ago, the German thinker Karl Wittfogel argued that water control and distribution had spawned authoritarian centralised regimes and sprawling bureaucracies in China. Perhaps it's possible to combine more democratic forms of rule with highly centralised regimes. But it's an argument that needs to be made.Second is the need for the media to portray moral exemplars, appeal to people's better nature, and help to generate sympathy for the disadvantaged. The importance of moral education is perhaps the least controversial part of China's Confucian heritage (and its \"communist\" updates) and it has implications for the way for think about the role of media in Chinese society. Yes, there can and should be more independent and critical media in China that tells the truth about social problems and blames the government when it's at fault. But it doesn't follow that complete separation of media and government is the best way forward. Privatisation might just lead to titillating news reporting that diverts attention away from real problems. So the task will be to steer between an authoritarian model of media control and a free market model that doesn't take sides with anyone. The resulting model - perhaps looser constraints on private media combined with a government-funded service that has the mandate to strive not for the party's interests but for widely endorsed social values like concern for the poor and filial piety - may strike westerners as moralising and paternalistic, but there are areas of justifiable difference that need to be tolerated, if not respected.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "A thaw in China"},{"date": "2008-02-14T12:30:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "The excitement over Steven Spielberg's withdrawal of support for the Beijing Olympics has helped to re-focus attention on Darfur. That is all to the good, especially if it leads his fellow-protesters to look more clearly at what is actually happening there and what moral responsibility China really has in allegedly failing to stop the war in Darfur. Brian Brivati wrote on this blog yesterday that \"China is the key\", but is that really the case?Wars always have at least two sides, and in the Darfur case that is an underestimate. There are around a dozen different rebel groups currently fighting the government. To put the blame on only one party makes no moral or political sense. The best way to stop the fighting and the humanitarian emergency that flows from it is to have an organised ceasefire and hold talks. This is what the Sudanese government did last October on the eve of the peace conference that the UN and the African Union held in Libya. Only a minority of the rebel groups reciprocated the ceasefire offer or attended the conference. They preferred to go on fighting, in part because they feel the one-sided approach of much of the outside world, with its exclusive pressure on the Khartoum government, helps their cause.The point is slowly being accepted by many of the so-called Darfur support groups. Compared with three years ago, when the campaign started, their statements now show a greater willingness to recognise the rebels' negative role in attacking aid workers, stealing humanitarian supplies, and raiding government-held villages and towns. The latest atrocity in early February when Khartoum-backed militias burnt down two towns in Western Darfur was provoked by attacks by the Justice and Equality Movement, one of the main groups which rejects peace talks. The pattern is depressingly familiar from almost every counterinsurgency campaign in history - rebel raids, which produce a government over-reaction. But who is to blame? If the rebels went to the peace table, there would have been no impulse for the government to respond with force.The support groups still seem not to appreciate that the humanitarian situation has changed. Claims of genocide were never accepted by the UN, but the events that gave rise to them occurred in 2003 and 2004. Today's Darfur is still appalling but not so bloody a place. In any case, the death rates of those years are heavily disputed, as is their cause. The victims of hunger and disease exacerbated by forced displacement are one-sidedly, and often deliberately, described by lobby groups as having been killed by government forces or their militias, as though they were executed.Subsequent years have seen a huge deployment to Darfur of UN and other international aid agencies. They eliminated starvation and massively reduced death from disease. Displacement in overcrowded camps is no longterm solution and people need confidence and security to go home. But the need to bring in a more powerful UN peacekeeping force to help to ensure that should not obscure the fact that the humanitarian effort has already been one of the UN's most successful interventions anywhere.Getting governments to fulfil their promises of troops for the new hybrid UN/AU force in Darfur, trying to obtain more helicopters, and building the peacekeepers' bases more quickly are important tasks. But, however well-equipped its force is, the UN cannot impose peace. That can only be done through a ceasefire and political talks. As Ban Ki-moon rightly said last week, \"the deployment of Unamid will only be as effective as the political process it is mandated to support\".How does China relate to this? It helped to pass the UN resolution to set up Unamid. It has contributed several hundred military engineers to Unamid. What more can it realistically do? The idea that it can pressure Khartoum \"to stop the killing\", as Brivati wrote yesterday, is too simple. The killing is more likely to stop when the rebels come to the peace table that the AU and the UN (with China's help) have laid out for them.", "tags": ["China", "Sudan", "United Nations", "Africa", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Why blame China?"},{"date": "2008-06-06T23:11:12Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has long inspired interest among graduates looking to broaden their horizons while adding to their CVs. The vast landscape, mystique and culture exceeds the nation's borders, but for all its thousands of years of history, it is the current expectations of the nation which is now capturing the imagination of many.\"I graduated in French and German from Oxford University in 2003, but realised that the bigger opportunities actually lay eastwards,\" says Daniel Nivern, 27-year-old director and founder of China Recruitment, an organisation that he set up two years ago to bring UK workers to China, linking them with Chinese companies and businesses that have a need for English speakers.Being based in China is not without its advantages. \"Our costs are massively lower in Beijing than in London. This includes everything - office space, travel, salaries, stationary, phone lines. In fact, you can easily get carried away and end up spending money carelessly,\" Nivern says.The first time he touched down in China he had no knowledge of the language and no experience of Asia. Yet you can sense that his optimism helped him make it work in a country that shares so little with his own culture. But then again, this is his job.\"Chinese is a great language to learn and it's surprisingly easy to start communicating after a couple of weeks. The grammar is less difficult than that of most European languages,\" he says, but does admit that he still struggles with getting the complex different tones in the language.Now his company helps to bring UK graduates to China. He set up his company in Beijing with just \u00a31,000 of start-up money and now employs six full-time British and Chinese staff in the company's office in Beijing, after hitting the business networking schemes around the city.\"The first six months were tough. It took time before things started to take shape,\" Nivern says. But it seems for those setting up business in China, the most valuable currency is local knowledge and an understanding of the culture.\"It is a land of opportunity, says Luke Hambleton, a 25-year-old graduate who studied Chinese and sinology at the School of Oriental and African Studies in London. He started out as a teacher and went on to co-found a consultancy in Beijing which advises UK business on how to deal with business in China. He writes papers on sectors and the culture of Chinese business.\"One of the biggest mistakes that people in the UK make about China is they misunderstand people's attitudes towards the communist state. It is common to see and hear the state and politics satirized and mocked in a way that many people in the UK would simply assume was unthinkable,\" Hambleton says.But it is necessary to recognise the differences between the west and China, as Rebecca Robinson, a 24-year-old graduate, who studied Chinese and history at the University of Leeds realised. She first worked as a teacher in Liuzhou, in Guangxi province in the south of China before she moved on to work for China Recruitment as a programme organiser, where she liaises with British applicants and her counterparts in Beijing and around the country.\"In China, you sometimes need to be patient and understand that things are more difficult,\" Robinson says. Hambleton agrees: \"Sometimes when drawing up and discussing a contract with your Chinese business partner, it is quite common for certain key points to be hurried and renegotiated at the last minute when everything appeared to be signed and sealed. Many barriers such as language and cultural attitudes can really hinder deals.\"The Chinese often talk of the post-1980 generation - those entering the workforce at the same time as China itself is developing economically. They have the chance to define themselves and their own identity. This is the China of the new and one of an entrepreneurial spirit, they say.\"The Chinese are extremely pragmatic and for all the notions of a communist society, they have a very capitalist spirit. Building close relationships is absolutely key and this takes time, effort, patience and understanding,\" Nivern says. \"When I started researching working opportunities in China, I found that there were very few companies that were able to offer any assistance and it was really difficult to penetrate a largely unknown country. I knew that China was going to be very different.\"The Olympic Games in August offers challenges and opportunities of its own, especially within Beijing - opportunities that Nivern has, like the Chinese, been building up to. \"This is a momentous moment for China,\" he says. \"It offers the Chinese two weeks when the whole world will be focused on them, and after being closed to the world for so many years, believe me, they are ready to make an impression.\"He is quick to acknowledge that the recent earthquake and flooding disasters may make bringing graduates to China during August more difficult. But he knows that the Olympics will give an insight into modern-day China, a country that the rest of the world in reality knows little about.\"Olympic fever is everywhere. There are billboards on street corners, clocks counting down, new buildings being erected all over the place, a new airport terminal with a new express train to the city, and two new lines of the subway,\" Nivern says. \"I made a calculated decision to prioritise Mandarin and understand Chinese culture rather than seek a job using my European language skills. This was based on the promise and the potential of China.\"For Nivern and anyone he has placed anywhere in China, they hope that when the Games come, they will have front-row seats as history unfolds.", "tags": ["Graduate careers", "Work & careers", "Education", "Forums", "Graduate"], "title": "Danny Vincent on the English graduates heading to China"},{"date": "2008-06-06T23:11:12Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has long inspired interest among graduates looking to broaden their horizons while adding to their CVs. The vast landscape, mystique and culture exceeds the nation's borders, but for all its thousands of years of history, it is the current expectations of the nation which is now capturing the imagination of many.\"I graduated in French and German from Oxford University in 2003, but realised that the bigger opportunities actually lay eastwards,\" says Daniel Nivern, 27-year-old director and founder of China Recruitment, an organisation that he set up two years ago to bring UK workers to China, linking them with Chinese companies and businesses that have a need for English speakers.Being based in China is not without its advantages. \"Our costs are massively lower in Beijing than in London. This includes everything - office space, travel, salaries, stationary, phone lines. In fact, you can easily get carried away and end up spending money carelessly,\" Nivern says.The first time he touched down in China he had no knowledge of the language and no experience of Asia. Yet you can sense that his optimism helped him make it work in a country that shares so little with his own culture. But then again, this is his job.\"Chinese is a great language to learn and it's surprisingly easy to start communicating after a couple of weeks. The grammar is less difficult than that of most European languages,\" he says, but does admit that he still struggles with getting the complex different tones in the language.Now his company helps to bring UK graduates to China. He set up his company in Beijing with just \u00a31,000 of start-up money and now employs six full-time British and Chinese staff in the company's office in Beijing, after hitting the business networking schemes around the city.\"The first six months were tough. It took time before things started to take shape,\" Nivern says. But it seems for those setting up business in China, the most valuable currency is local knowledge and an understanding of the culture.\"It is a land of opportunity, says Luke Hambleton, a 25-year-old graduate who studied Chinese and sinology at the School of Oriental and African Studies in London. He started out as a teacher and went on to co-found a consultancy in Beijing which advises UK business on how to deal with business in China. He writes papers on sectors and the culture of Chinese business.\"One of the biggest mistakes that people in the UK make about China is they misunderstand people's attitudes towards the communist state. It is common to see and hear the state and politics satirized and mocked in a way that many people in the UK would simply assume was unthinkable,\" Hambleton says.But it is necessary to recognise the differences between the west and China, as Rebecca Robinson, a 24-year-old graduate, who studied Chinese and history at the University of Leeds realised. She first worked as a teacher in Liuzhou, in Guangxi province in the south of China before she moved on to work for China Recruitment as a programme organiser, where she liaises with British applicants and her counterparts in Beijing and around the country.\"In China, you sometimes need to be patient and understand that things are more difficult,\" Robinson says. Hambleton agrees: \"Sometimes when drawing up and discussing a contract with your Chinese business partner, it is quite common for certain key points to be hurried and renegotiated at the last minute when everything appeared to be signed and sealed. Many barriers such as language and cultural attitudes can really hinder deals.\"The Chinese often talk of the post-1980 generation - those entering the workforce at the same time as China itself is developing economically. They have the chance to define themselves and their own identity. This is the China of the new and one of an entrepreneurial spirit, they say.\"The Chinese are extremely pragmatic and for all the notions of a communist society, they have a very capitalist spirit. Building close relationships is absolutely key and this takes time, effort, patience and understanding,\" Nivern says. \"When I started researching working opportunities in China, I found that there were very few companies that were able to offer any assistance and it was really difficult to penetrate a largely unknown country. I knew that China was going to be very different.\"The Olympic Games in August offers challenges and opportunities of its own, especially within Beijing - opportunities that Nivern has, like the Chinese, been building up to. \"This is a momentous moment for China,\" he says. \"It offers the Chinese two weeks when the whole world will be focused on them, and after being closed to the world for so many years, believe me, they are ready to make an impression.\"He is quick to acknowledge that the recent earthquake and flooding disasters may make bringing graduates to China during August more difficult. But he knows that the Olympics will give an insight into modern-day China, a country that the rest of the world in reality knows little about.\"Olympic fever is everywhere. There are billboards on street corners, clocks counting down, new buildings being erected all over the place, a new airport terminal with a new express train to the city, and two new lines of the subway,\" Nivern says. \"I made a calculated decision to prioritise Mandarin and understand Chinese culture rather than seek a job using my European language skills. This was based on the promise and the potential of China.\"For Nivern and anyone he has placed anywhere in China, they hope that when the Games come, they will have front-row seats as history unfolds.", "tags": ["Graduate careers", "Work & careers", "Education", "Forums", "Graduate"], "title": "Danny Vincent on the English graduates heading to China"},{"date": "2008-06-01T15:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Around 320,000 Britons visited China in 2007. One of the world's great cultures has finally embarked on a path towards prosperity. China is a much more comfortable and welcoming place than it has ever been. Last year, Tony Blair told us that because of economic changes and rising prosperity, the movement towards democracy in China is \"unstoppable.\"Everything from economic reforms to rising wealth levels, a growing and modern middle class (currently around 100-200 million people) behaving and acting like we do in Britain, and even granting Beijing the Olympics was meant to hasten the arrival of democracy in China. But since the Tiananmen Square protests in 1989, China is seemingly further away (pdf) from democracy.What happened? After all, the circumstances seem ripe for democratisation.There is apparently a strong correlation between free and open markets, and free societies. Prior to reforms in 1978, China's private sector produced less than 1% of output. Today Shanghai feels like a shining, new, cosmopolitan city. There are now 30 million private businesses in China producing over 70% of its national output.Yet political reform has stalled over the past decade. Importantly, the overwhelming majority of China's elites - entrepreneurs, professionals, intellectuals, students, journalists, and so on - have lost interest in political reform. When pressed, most express support for the political status quo and are even critical of the 1989 Tiananmen protests.In fact, these elites are the fastest-growing groups wanting to become members of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP). Almost a quarter of the 70 million party members are professionals and skilled workers. One third are college students, and another third are businesspeople. These elites, who were meant to lead the push toward democratisation, have become the party's newest and strongest supporters.The common mistake made in the west is to assume that while China's society and economy is rapidly changing, its authoritarian political institutions remain static. Those too quick to proclaim democracy on the horizon in China have underestimated the determination, capacity, and resourcefulness of the regime in its efforts to remain in power.Authoritarian regimes cannot afford to be made irrelevant by other forces. To preserve its economic relevance, the Chinese regime has gone to extensive efforts to maintain control of the major levers of economic power. This control is the heart of an economic structure that entrenches the role and position of party members in Chinese economy and society. Around a dozen key segments of the economy - including banking, construction, infrastructure, media, and telecommunications - are dominated by state-owned enterprises (SOEs). The state still owns a majority of the country's fixed assets and receives over two-thirds of the country's capital.The CCP has conducted a tireless and largely successful campaign to co-opt, and in many respects create, the rising educated and economic classes. By remaining the key economic player as well as overseeing an extensive system of awards, promotions, and regulation, the government continues to control and dispense a dominant share of the most valued economic, professional, and intellectual opportunities.This means that entrepreneurs are better off doing business as a \"partner\" of the state. Intellectuals and academics favoured by officials are granted generous research grants, are fast tracked into senior positions, and given personal perks. Journalists have little choice but to work for media outlets that are still subsidiaries of party organs. These are the contented middle classes emerging in China today. Far from being an independent class, why would these middle classes want to change toward a more democratic system when it could lead to their own dispossession?The CCP's hold on power remains vulnerable to a profound economic shock, such as a significant downturn in economic growth. This would impede the regime's continued capacity to co-opt and appease. Regardless, a Chinese middle class that looks and acts the same as we do in the west might nevertheless think very differently when it comes to democracy and the future of the country.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Why China doesn't break"},{"date": "2008-06-06T23:11:12Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has long inspired interest among graduates looking to broaden their horizons while adding to their CVs. The vast landscape, mystique and culture exceeds the nation's borders, but for all its thousands of years of history, it is the current expectations of the nation which is now capturing the imagination of many.\"I graduated in French and German from Oxford University in 2003, but realised that the bigger opportunities actually lay eastwards,\" says Daniel Nivern, 27-year-old director and founder of China Recruitment, an organisation that he set up two years ago to bring UK workers to China, linking them with Chinese companies and businesses that have a need for English speakers.Being based in China is not without its advantages. \"Our costs are massively lower in Beijing than in London. This includes everything - office space, travel, salaries, stationary, phone lines. In fact, you can easily get carried away and end up spending money carelessly,\" Nivern says.The first time he touched down in China he had no knowledge of the language and no experience of Asia. Yet you can sense that his optimism helped him make it work in a country that shares so little with his own culture. But then again, this is his job.\"Chinese is a great language to learn and it's surprisingly easy to start communicating after a couple of weeks. The grammar is less difficult than that of most European languages,\" he says, but does admit that he still struggles with getting the complex different tones in the language.Now his company helps to bring UK graduates to China. He set up his company in Beijing with just \u00a31,000 of start-up money and now employs six full-time British and Chinese staff in the company's office in Beijing, after hitting the business networking schemes around the city.\"The first six months were tough. It took time before things started to take shape,\" Nivern says. But it seems for those setting up business in China, the most valuable currency is local knowledge and an understanding of the culture.\"It is a land of opportunity, says Luke Hambleton, a 25-year-old graduate who studied Chinese and sinology at the School of Oriental and African Studies in London. He started out as a teacher and went on to co-found a consultancy in Beijing which advises UK business on how to deal with business in China. He writes papers on sectors and the culture of Chinese business.\"One of the biggest mistakes that people in the UK make about China is they misunderstand people's attitudes towards the communist state. It is common to see and hear the state and politics satirized and mocked in a way that many people in the UK would simply assume was unthinkable,\" Hambleton says.But it is necessary to recognise the differences between the west and China, as Rebecca Robinson, a 24-year-old graduate, who studied Chinese and history at the University of Leeds realised. She first worked as a teacher in Liuzhou, in Guangxi province in the south of China before she moved on to work for China Recruitment as a programme organiser, where she liaises with British applicants and her counterparts in Beijing and around the country.\"In China, you sometimes need to be patient and understand that things are more difficult,\" Robinson says. Hambleton agrees: \"Sometimes when drawing up and discussing a contract with your Chinese business partner, it is quite common for certain key points to be hurried and renegotiated at the last minute when everything appeared to be signed and sealed. Many barriers such as language and cultural attitudes can really hinder deals.\"The Chinese often talk of the post-1980 generation - those entering the workforce at the same time as China itself is developing economically. They have the chance to define themselves and their own identity. This is the China of the new and one of an entrepreneurial spirit, they say.\"The Chinese are extremely pragmatic and for all the notions of a communist society, they have a very capitalist spirit. Building close relationships is absolutely key and this takes time, effort, patience and understanding,\" Nivern says. \"When I started researching working opportunities in China, I found that there were very few companies that were able to offer any assistance and it was really difficult to penetrate a largely unknown country. I knew that China was going to be very different.\"The Olympic Games in August offers challenges and opportunities of its own, especially within Beijing - opportunities that Nivern has, like the Chinese, been building up to. \"This is a momentous moment for China,\" he says. \"It offers the Chinese two weeks when the whole world will be focused on them, and after being closed to the world for so many years, believe me, they are ready to make an impression.\"He is quick to acknowledge that the recent earthquake and flooding disasters may make bringing graduates to China during August more difficult. But he knows that the Olympics will give an insight into modern-day China, a country that the rest of the world in reality knows little about.\"Olympic fever is everywhere. There are billboards on street corners, clocks counting down, new buildings being erected all over the place, a new airport terminal with a new express train to the city, and two new lines of the subway,\" Nivern says. \"I made a calculated decision to prioritise Mandarin and understand Chinese culture rather than seek a job using my European language skills. This was based on the promise and the potential of China.\"For Nivern and anyone he has placed anywhere in China, they hope that when the Games come, they will have front-row seats as history unfolds.", "tags": ["Graduate careers", "Work & careers", "Education", "Forums", "Graduate"], "title": "Danny Vincent on the English graduates heading to China"},{"date": "2008-06-01T15:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Around 320,000 Britons visited China in 2007. One of the world's great cultures has finally embarked on a path towards prosperity. China is a much more comfortable and welcoming place than it has ever been. Last year, Tony Blair told us that because of economic changes and rising prosperity, the movement towards democracy in China is \"unstoppable.\"Everything from economic reforms to rising wealth levels, a growing and modern middle class (currently around 100-200 million people) behaving and acting like we do in Britain, and even granting Beijing the Olympics was meant to hasten the arrival of democracy in China. But since the Tiananmen Square protests in 1989, China is seemingly further away (pdf) from democracy.What happened? After all, the circumstances seem ripe for democratisation.There is apparently a strong correlation between free and open markets, and free societies. Prior to reforms in 1978, China's private sector produced less than 1% of output. Today Shanghai feels like a shining, new, cosmopolitan city. There are now 30 million private businesses in China producing over 70% of its national output.Yet political reform has stalled over the past decade. Importantly, the overwhelming majority of China's elites - entrepreneurs, professionals, intellectuals, students, journalists, and so on - have lost interest in political reform. When pressed, most express support for the political status quo and are even critical of the 1989 Tiananmen protests.In fact, these elites are the fastest-growing groups wanting to become members of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP). Almost a quarter of the 70 million party members are professionals and skilled workers. One third are college students, and another third are businesspeople. These elites, who were meant to lead the push toward democratisation, have become the party's newest and strongest supporters.The common mistake made in the west is to assume that while China's society and economy is rapidly changing, its authoritarian political institutions remain static. Those too quick to proclaim democracy on the horizon in China have underestimated the determination, capacity, and resourcefulness of the regime in its efforts to remain in power.Authoritarian regimes cannot afford to be made irrelevant by other forces. To preserve its economic relevance, the Chinese regime has gone to extensive efforts to maintain control of the major levers of economic power. This control is the heart of an economic structure that entrenches the role and position of party members in Chinese economy and society. Around a dozen key segments of the economy - including banking, construction, infrastructure, media, and telecommunications - are dominated by state-owned enterprises (SOEs). The state still owns a majority of the country's fixed assets and receives over two-thirds of the country's capital.The CCP has conducted a tireless and largely successful campaign to co-opt, and in many respects create, the rising educated and economic classes. By remaining the key economic player as well as overseeing an extensive system of awards, promotions, and regulation, the government continues to control and dispense a dominant share of the most valued economic, professional, and intellectual opportunities.This means that entrepreneurs are better off doing business as a \"partner\" of the state. Intellectuals and academics favoured by officials are granted generous research grants, are fast tracked into senior positions, and given personal perks. Journalists have little choice but to work for media outlets that are still subsidiaries of party organs. These are the contented middle classes emerging in China today. Far from being an independent class, why would these middle classes want to change toward a more democratic system when it could lead to their own dispossession?The CCP's hold on power remains vulnerable to a profound economic shock, such as a significant downturn in economic growth. This would impede the regime's continued capacity to co-opt and appease. Regardless, a Chinese middle class that looks and acts the same as we do in the west might nevertheless think very differently when it comes to democracy and the future of the country.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Why China doesn't break"},{"date": "2008-05-29T11:30:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "In March, as the uprising started in Tibet, I made my first visit to China. I was there to meet writers and translators, to try to understand what are euphemistically called the \"challenges\" facing my Chinese counterparts.As the crisis escalated, the gap between the accounts given by state media and the stories I was reading on the internet became ever greater. I got used to the television screen going blank every time CNN or the BBC played footage of the torch relay. I used proxies to view sites (including the Guardian) that were blocked by the authorities, and told myself that I was getting a feel for the absurdities of Chinese propaganda - the smiling Han children standing behind the reporter in Lhasa as he described how they'd been traumatised by the Tibetan rioters, the sinister fulminations against the Dalai Lama, the list of client states produced as evidence of \"global support\" for the Chinese crackdown.What I couldn't understand was the strength of patriotic feeling among ordinary Chinese people - not just those living behind the great firewall, whose access to information was heavily controlled, but international Chinese people living in places where they had every opportunity to learn about the repression, the executions, the torture. They were turning out in huge numbers to support their government, and to decry the anti-Chinese bias of the western news media. Why?I found an answer at the Wu Hou shrine in Chengdu, the city nearest the epicentre of the recent Sichuan earthquake. The shrine is an institution which has no exact parallel in the west, dedicated not to a supernatural deity or an unworldly saint, but to that most secular of things, an administrator. Zhuge Liang (AD181-234) was the prime minister of the Shu Han kingdom, a military strategist, scholar and statesman, whose tactical wisdom has become proverbial. Also known as Wu Hou (Marquis Wu) he's an important character in the Romance of the Three Kingdoms, one of the great Chinese classical novels.Just outside the shrine gate is Chengdu's Tibetan quarter, which at the time of my visit was locked down by riot police. Thousands of uniformed officers were patrolling the area, driving past the shops selling robes and other monastic paraphernalia, watched by sullen locals. Inside the tranquil precinct of the shrine hung inscriptions lauding Wu's many virtues - his insight, his bravery, his diligence, his inventiveness. However, I was struck that he was praised above all for the unity he brought to his people during a period of bloodshed and political turbulence. Again and again I was faced with calligraphic evidence, both ancient and modern, of a deepseated reverence for unity, harmony and territorial integrity. The fear of discord, evident in all cultures, is given cosmological importance in China. The shrine was a monument to the maintenance of political order in times of chaos.On another day, I attended a seminar where I listened to an argument between Howard Goldblatt, one of the most important translators of contemporary Chinese literature, and Jiang Rong, author of Wolf Totem, a hugely successful novel based on the author's experiences in Inner Mongolia, where he was sent during the cultural revolution. The novel describes the relationship between the Mongol herders and Han Chinese settlers who are disrupting the traditional ecology of their homeland. In its opening paragraph, a Mongol and a Han settler are in conversation. Jiang complained that in his version of this dialogue, Goldblatt had translated \"Han\" simply as \"Chinese\". This surely implied that the Mongols were not properly Chinese, or that China was in some sense a Han hegemony. Several members of the audience took umbrage at this, detecting sinister political insinuations. Did the westerner wish to imply that China had no legitimate right to the territory of its ethnic minorities? Was this yet another attack on national unity?By now over three million people have watched a bombastic youtube film called \"Why Tibet was, is and always will be part of China\" . Made by a 22-year-old Chinese Canadian student, it's a good document of Chinese ultra-nationalist sentiment, which sees in western support for Tibetan autonomy, and for human rights more generally, an attempt to undermine the harmony, integrity and unity of China - what in the jargon of the \"war on terror\" has become known as an \"existential threat\". Against this must be set voices like that of the novelist Ma Jian, whose recently published Beijing Coma looks set to become the definitive fictional account of the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989. Ma's unsentimental short stories about Tibet, and his profound disgust with the hypocrisy and cruelty he sees at the heart of the Chinese system have made him persona non grata in his home country, where much of his writing is banned.The spectrum of Chinese opinion is broad, and Western observers would do well to pay closer attention to its diversity. Above all we must accept the profound disconnection between international opinion, which sees respect for human rights as the foundation for a functional society, and that of Chinese nationalists, who view all appeals to human rights as a threat to sovereignty.It's sadly clear that in the era of \"humanitarian intervention\", there is some justification for this nervousness, as the human rights agenda has been degraded by its use as rhetorical support for US and UK foreign policy aims. I found out in Chengdu that it's not good enough to dismiss Chinese popular nationalism as the result of clever propaganda, let alone brainwashing. Nor can we see human rights as a self-evident set of truths, to which everyone would uncritically assent, were they allowed to do so by their governments. I believe it's vital to carry on making the case for human rights and freedom of expression as forcefully as possible in this Olympic year, but my visit to China showed me that in order to make that case, we need a more sophisticated dialogue, based on greater understanding of Chinese culture and history.\u2022 Hari Kunzru will chair Chinese Whispers, an event with Ma Jian, Diane Wei Liang and Liu Hong Cannon at 7pm on June 3 at the Guardian Newsroom, 60 Farringdon Road, London, EC1R 3GA.", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Hari Kunzru", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China: handle with care"},{"date": "2008-06-06T23:11:12Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has long inspired interest among graduates looking to broaden their horizons while adding to their CVs. The vast landscape, mystique and culture exceeds the nation's borders, but for all its thousands of years of history, it is the current expectations of the nation which is now capturing the imagination of many.\"I graduated in French and German from Oxford University in 2003, but realised that the bigger opportunities actually lay eastwards,\" says Daniel Nivern, 27-year-old director and founder of China Recruitment, an organisation that he set up two years ago to bring UK workers to China, linking them with Chinese companies and businesses that have a need for English speakers.Being based in China is not without its advantages. \"Our costs are massively lower in Beijing than in London. This includes everything - office space, travel, salaries, stationary, phone lines. In fact, you can easily get carried away and end up spending money carelessly,\" Nivern says.The first time he touched down in China he had no knowledge of the language and no experience of Asia. Yet you can sense that his optimism helped him make it work in a country that shares so little with his own culture. But then again, this is his job.\"Chinese is a great language to learn and it's surprisingly easy to start communicating after a couple of weeks. The grammar is less difficult than that of most European languages,\" he says, but does admit that he still struggles with getting the complex different tones in the language.Now his company helps to bring UK graduates to China. He set up his company in Beijing with just \u00a31,000 of start-up money and now employs six full-time British and Chinese staff in the company's office in Beijing, after hitting the business networking schemes around the city.\"The first six months were tough. It took time before things started to take shape,\" Nivern says. But it seems for those setting up business in China, the most valuable currency is local knowledge and an understanding of the culture.\"It is a land of opportunity, says Luke Hambleton, a 25-year-old graduate who studied Chinese and sinology at the School of Oriental and African Studies in London. He started out as a teacher and went on to co-found a consultancy in Beijing which advises UK business on how to deal with business in China. He writes papers on sectors and the culture of Chinese business.\"One of the biggest mistakes that people in the UK make about China is they misunderstand people's attitudes towards the communist state. It is common to see and hear the state and politics satirized and mocked in a way that many people in the UK would simply assume was unthinkable,\" Hambleton says.But it is necessary to recognise the differences between the west and China, as Rebecca Robinson, a 24-year-old graduate, who studied Chinese and history at the University of Leeds realised. She first worked as a teacher in Liuzhou, in Guangxi province in the south of China before she moved on to work for China Recruitment as a programme organiser, where she liaises with British applicants and her counterparts in Beijing and around the country.\"In China, you sometimes need to be patient and understand that things are more difficult,\" Robinson says. Hambleton agrees: \"Sometimes when drawing up and discussing a contract with your Chinese business partner, it is quite common for certain key points to be hurried and renegotiated at the last minute when everything appeared to be signed and sealed. Many barriers such as language and cultural attitudes can really hinder deals.\"The Chinese often talk of the post-1980 generation - those entering the workforce at the same time as China itself is developing economically. They have the chance to define themselves and their own identity. This is the China of the new and one of an entrepreneurial spirit, they say.\"The Chinese are extremely pragmatic and for all the notions of a communist society, they have a very capitalist spirit. Building close relationships is absolutely key and this takes time, effort, patience and understanding,\" Nivern says. \"When I started researching working opportunities in China, I found that there were very few companies that were able to offer any assistance and it was really difficult to penetrate a largely unknown country. I knew that China was going to be very different.\"The Olympic Games in August offers challenges and opportunities of its own, especially within Beijing - opportunities that Nivern has, like the Chinese, been building up to. \"This is a momentous moment for China,\" he says. \"It offers the Chinese two weeks when the whole world will be focused on them, and after being closed to the world for so many years, believe me, they are ready to make an impression.\"He is quick to acknowledge that the recent earthquake and flooding disasters may make bringing graduates to China during August more difficult. But he knows that the Olympics will give an insight into modern-day China, a country that the rest of the world in reality knows little about.\"Olympic fever is everywhere. There are billboards on street corners, clocks counting down, new buildings being erected all over the place, a new airport terminal with a new express train to the city, and two new lines of the subway,\" Nivern says. \"I made a calculated decision to prioritise Mandarin and understand Chinese culture rather than seek a job using my European language skills. This was based on the promise and the potential of China.\"For Nivern and anyone he has placed anywhere in China, they hope that when the Games come, they will have front-row seats as history unfolds.", "tags": ["Graduate careers", "Work & careers", "Education", "Forums", "Graduate"], "title": "Danny Vincent on the English graduates heading to China"},{"date": "2008-06-01T15:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Around 320,000 Britons visited China in 2007. One of the world's great cultures has finally embarked on a path towards prosperity. China is a much more comfortable and welcoming place than it has ever been. Last year, Tony Blair told us that because of economic changes and rising prosperity, the movement towards democracy in China is \"unstoppable.\"Everything from economic reforms to rising wealth levels, a growing and modern middle class (currently around 100-200 million people) behaving and acting like we do in Britain, and even granting Beijing the Olympics was meant to hasten the arrival of democracy in China. But since the Tiananmen Square protests in 1989, China is seemingly further away (pdf) from democracy.What happened? After all, the circumstances seem ripe for democratisation.There is apparently a strong correlation between free and open markets, and free societies. Prior to reforms in 1978, China's private sector produced less than 1% of output. Today Shanghai feels like a shining, new, cosmopolitan city. There are now 30 million private businesses in China producing over 70% of its national output.Yet political reform has stalled over the past decade. Importantly, the overwhelming majority of China's elites - entrepreneurs, professionals, intellectuals, students, journalists, and so on - have lost interest in political reform. When pressed, most express support for the political status quo and are even critical of the 1989 Tiananmen protests.In fact, these elites are the fastest-growing groups wanting to become members of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP). Almost a quarter of the 70 million party members are professionals and skilled workers. One third are college students, and another third are businesspeople. These elites, who were meant to lead the push toward democratisation, have become the party's newest and strongest supporters.The common mistake made in the west is to assume that while China's society and economy is rapidly changing, its authoritarian political institutions remain static. Those too quick to proclaim democracy on the horizon in China have underestimated the determination, capacity, and resourcefulness of the regime in its efforts to remain in power.Authoritarian regimes cannot afford to be made irrelevant by other forces. To preserve its economic relevance, the Chinese regime has gone to extensive efforts to maintain control of the major levers of economic power. This control is the heart of an economic structure that entrenches the role and position of party members in Chinese economy and society. Around a dozen key segments of the economy - including banking, construction, infrastructure, media, and telecommunications - are dominated by state-owned enterprises (SOEs). The state still owns a majority of the country's fixed assets and receives over two-thirds of the country's capital.The CCP has conducted a tireless and largely successful campaign to co-opt, and in many respects create, the rising educated and economic classes. By remaining the key economic player as well as overseeing an extensive system of awards, promotions, and regulation, the government continues to control and dispense a dominant share of the most valued economic, professional, and intellectual opportunities.This means that entrepreneurs are better off doing business as a \"partner\" of the state. Intellectuals and academics favoured by officials are granted generous research grants, are fast tracked into senior positions, and given personal perks. Journalists have little choice but to work for media outlets that are still subsidiaries of party organs. These are the contented middle classes emerging in China today. Far from being an independent class, why would these middle classes want to change toward a more democratic system when it could lead to their own dispossession?The CCP's hold on power remains vulnerable to a profound economic shock, such as a significant downturn in economic growth. This would impede the regime's continued capacity to co-opt and appease. Regardless, a Chinese middle class that looks and acts the same as we do in the west might nevertheless think very differently when it comes to democracy and the future of the country.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Why China doesn't break"},{"date": "2008-05-29T11:30:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "In March, as the uprising started in Tibet, I made my first visit to China. I was there to meet writers and translators, to try to understand what are euphemistically called the \"challenges\" facing my Chinese counterparts.As the crisis escalated, the gap between the accounts given by state media and the stories I was reading on the internet became ever greater. I got used to the television screen going blank every time CNN or the BBC played footage of the torch relay. I used proxies to view sites (including the Guardian) that were blocked by the authorities, and told myself that I was getting a feel for the absurdities of Chinese propaganda - the smiling Han children standing behind the reporter in Lhasa as he described how they'd been traumatised by the Tibetan rioters, the sinister fulminations against the Dalai Lama, the list of client states produced as evidence of \"global support\" for the Chinese crackdown.What I couldn't understand was the strength of patriotic feeling among ordinary Chinese people - not just those living behind the great firewall, whose access to information was heavily controlled, but international Chinese people living in places where they had every opportunity to learn about the repression, the executions, the torture. They were turning out in huge numbers to support their government, and to decry the anti-Chinese bias of the western news media. Why?I found an answer at the Wu Hou shrine in Chengdu, the city nearest the epicentre of the recent Sichuan earthquake. The shrine is an institution which has no exact parallel in the west, dedicated not to a supernatural deity or an unworldly saint, but to that most secular of things, an administrator. Zhuge Liang (AD181-234) was the prime minister of the Shu Han kingdom, a military strategist, scholar and statesman, whose tactical wisdom has become proverbial. Also known as Wu Hou (Marquis Wu) he's an important character in the Romance of the Three Kingdoms, one of the great Chinese classical novels.Just outside the shrine gate is Chengdu's Tibetan quarter, which at the time of my visit was locked down by riot police. Thousands of uniformed officers were patrolling the area, driving past the shops selling robes and other monastic paraphernalia, watched by sullen locals. Inside the tranquil precinct of the shrine hung inscriptions lauding Wu's many virtues - his insight, his bravery, his diligence, his inventiveness. However, I was struck that he was praised above all for the unity he brought to his people during a period of bloodshed and political turbulence. Again and again I was faced with calligraphic evidence, both ancient and modern, of a deepseated reverence for unity, harmony and territorial integrity. The fear of discord, evident in all cultures, is given cosmological importance in China. The shrine was a monument to the maintenance of political order in times of chaos.On another day, I attended a seminar where I listened to an argument between Howard Goldblatt, one of the most important translators of contemporary Chinese literature, and Jiang Rong, author of Wolf Totem, a hugely successful novel based on the author's experiences in Inner Mongolia, where he was sent during the cultural revolution. The novel describes the relationship between the Mongol herders and Han Chinese settlers who are disrupting the traditional ecology of their homeland. In its opening paragraph, a Mongol and a Han settler are in conversation. Jiang complained that in his version of this dialogue, Goldblatt had translated \"Han\" simply as \"Chinese\". This surely implied that the Mongols were not properly Chinese, or that China was in some sense a Han hegemony. Several members of the audience took umbrage at this, detecting sinister political insinuations. Did the westerner wish to imply that China had no legitimate right to the territory of its ethnic minorities? Was this yet another attack on national unity?By now over three million people have watched a bombastic youtube film called \"Why Tibet was, is and always will be part of China\" . Made by a 22-year-old Chinese Canadian student, it's a good document of Chinese ultra-nationalist sentiment, which sees in western support for Tibetan autonomy, and for human rights more generally, an attempt to undermine the harmony, integrity and unity of China - what in the jargon of the \"war on terror\" has become known as an \"existential threat\". Against this must be set voices like that of the novelist Ma Jian, whose recently published Beijing Coma looks set to become the definitive fictional account of the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989. Ma's unsentimental short stories about Tibet, and his profound disgust with the hypocrisy and cruelty he sees at the heart of the Chinese system have made him persona non grata in his home country, where much of his writing is banned.The spectrum of Chinese opinion is broad, and Western observers would do well to pay closer attention to its diversity. Above all we must accept the profound disconnection between international opinion, which sees respect for human rights as the foundation for a functional society, and that of Chinese nationalists, who view all appeals to human rights as a threat to sovereignty.It's sadly clear that in the era of \"humanitarian intervention\", there is some justification for this nervousness, as the human rights agenda has been degraded by its use as rhetorical support for US and UK foreign policy aims. I found out in Chengdu that it's not good enough to dismiss Chinese popular nationalism as the result of clever propaganda, let alone brainwashing. Nor can we see human rights as a self-evident set of truths, to which everyone would uncritically assent, were they allowed to do so by their governments. I believe it's vital to carry on making the case for human rights and freedom of expression as forcefully as possible in this Olympic year, but my visit to China showed me that in order to make that case, we need a more sophisticated dialogue, based on greater understanding of Chinese culture and history.\u2022 Hari Kunzru will chair Chinese Whispers, an event with Ma Jian, Diane Wei Liang and Liu Hong Cannon at 7pm on June 3 at the Guardian Newsroom, 60 Farringdon Road, London, EC1R 3GA.", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Hari Kunzru", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China: handle with care"},{"date": "2008-05-30T07:26:49Z", "country": "china", "content": "Shi Ying is a member of China's urban middle class. Her parents were workers in Hangzhou and she spent time during the Cultural Revolution in the countryside. She is now a magazine publisher in Shenzhen, where she lives with her husband and three dogs. Her daughter works in Beijing.MondayBreakfast: congee, bread and one egg. Cost this year: 3 yuan per person (cost last year: 2.5 yuan)Lunch: rice, cabbage, kidney bean, chicken paw, yoghurt. Cost 14 yuan/person (12 yuan) Dinner: pawpaw with bird-nest, steak, kidney bean, fried pork, pumpkin leaves, fish, cucumber, seedcake. Cost this year: 380 per person (280 yuan)Total cost for daily food this year: 397 yuan (294.5 yuan)Shi Ying often eats out with friends and relatives, they usually spent 50 to 100 yuan per person. But sometimes when they have meals with important guests they spend more. She also feels the pressure of price rises so instead of going to a restaurant every week she and her husband now hold more gatherings at home.TuesdayBreakfast: conjee, one egg, dumplings. Cost this year: 6 yuan (4.5)Lunch: rice, short rib, green vegetable, soup of corn, carrot and pig bones, tomato. Cost this year: 15 yuan per person (12)Dinner: With friends in a restaurant: beef, horsebeans, tofu, kidney beans, soup of kelp, soybean and pig bone, rice, water melon. Cost this year: 27/person (20)Total cost for daily food this year: 48 yuan (36.5)The price of the meat is more than twice as much as last year. But the main reason Shi Ying and her family buy less meat than before is because they wanted to avoid fat and unhealthy food. The family like soya products, they often eat tofu and other types of beans.WednesdayBreakfast: noodle with green vegetable, pancake, soya milk. Cost this year: 3 yuan (3)Lunch: fish, green vegetable, pork fried sweet bean, bread with butter, rice, kelp and pig bone soup. Cost this year: 20yuan/person (16)Dinner: beef, tofu, soy pork bone soup, rice. Cost this year: 25 yuan per person (20)Total cost for daily food last year: 48 yuan (39)Shi Ying and her family usually choose food according to whether it is healthy or not. But price is a factor. Since pork rose much more quickly than beef, they eat more beef. Apart from pig bones they don't buy pork products any more.ThursdayBreakfast: egg, congee, dumpling, rice noodle. Cost this year: 4 yuan/person (4)Lunch: duck, Chinese cabbage, kidney beans, rice and soup made from peanut, lotus root and pork. Cost this year: 22 yuan/person (15)Dinner: beef, tofu, grean vegetable, soy and pork bone soup, rice. Cost this year: 25 yuan (20)Cost for daily food this year 51 yuan (39)When Shi Ying was young, she felt very fortunate on the rare occasions when she could eat meat. But now, although she could afford to eat it every day she does not do so because of health concerns. She also worries about pesticide and fertilizer so she always chooses \"organic products\" even though they are more expensive.FridayBreakfast: bread, congee, egg fried rice noodle. Cost this year: 5 yuan (5)Lunch: beef fried potato, green vegetable, tofu, rice and pear. Cost this year: 18 (15)Dinner: tofu, beans, fish, rice. Cost this year: 20 yuan/person (19)Cost for daily food this year: 43 yuan (39)Even though the family have two incomes, Shi Ying feels prices are rising faster than she can handle. On weekly visits to the supermarket in the past, they would spend less than 300 yuan but now food buying trips cost them 400 to 500 yuan. Even the price of dog food increased by 30%.", "tags": ["Environment", "Food", "China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Food diary: Shenzhen, China"},{"date": "2008-06-06T23:11:12Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has long inspired interest among graduates looking to broaden their horizons while adding to their CVs. The vast landscape, mystique and culture exceeds the nation's borders, but for all its thousands of years of history, it is the current expectations of the nation which is now capturing the imagination of many.\"I graduated in French and German from Oxford University in 2003, but realised that the bigger opportunities actually lay eastwards,\" says Daniel Nivern, 27-year-old director and founder of China Recruitment, an organisation that he set up two years ago to bring UK workers to China, linking them with Chinese companies and businesses that have a need for English speakers.Being based in China is not without its advantages. \"Our costs are massively lower in Beijing than in London. This includes everything - office space, travel, salaries, stationary, phone lines. In fact, you can easily get carried away and end up spending money carelessly,\" Nivern says.The first time he touched down in China he had no knowledge of the language and no experience of Asia. Yet you can sense that his optimism helped him make it work in a country that shares so little with his own culture. But then again, this is his job.\"Chinese is a great language to learn and it's surprisingly easy to start communicating after a couple of weeks. The grammar is less difficult than that of most European languages,\" he says, but does admit that he still struggles with getting the complex different tones in the language.Now his company helps to bring UK graduates to China. He set up his company in Beijing with just \u00a31,000 of start-up money and now employs six full-time British and Chinese staff in the company's office in Beijing, after hitting the business networking schemes around the city.\"The first six months were tough. It took time before things started to take shape,\" Nivern says. But it seems for those setting up business in China, the most valuable currency is local knowledge and an understanding of the culture.\"It is a land of opportunity, says Luke Hambleton, a 25-year-old graduate who studied Chinese and sinology at the School of Oriental and African Studies in London. He started out as a teacher and went on to co-found a consultancy in Beijing which advises UK business on how to deal with business in China. He writes papers on sectors and the culture of Chinese business.\"One of the biggest mistakes that people in the UK make about China is they misunderstand people's attitudes towards the communist state. It is common to see and hear the state and politics satirized and mocked in a way that many people in the UK would simply assume was unthinkable,\" Hambleton says.But it is necessary to recognise the differences between the west and China, as Rebecca Robinson, a 24-year-old graduate, who studied Chinese and history at the University of Leeds realised. She first worked as a teacher in Liuzhou, in Guangxi province in the south of China before she moved on to work for China Recruitment as a programme organiser, where she liaises with British applicants and her counterparts in Beijing and around the country.\"In China, you sometimes need to be patient and understand that things are more difficult,\" Robinson says. Hambleton agrees: \"Sometimes when drawing up and discussing a contract with your Chinese business partner, it is quite common for certain key points to be hurried and renegotiated at the last minute when everything appeared to be signed and sealed. Many barriers such as language and cultural attitudes can really hinder deals.\"The Chinese often talk of the post-1980 generation - those entering the workforce at the same time as China itself is developing economically. They have the chance to define themselves and their own identity. This is the China of the new and one of an entrepreneurial spirit, they say.\"The Chinese are extremely pragmatic and for all the notions of a communist society, they have a very capitalist spirit. Building close relationships is absolutely key and this takes time, effort, patience and understanding,\" Nivern says. \"When I started researching working opportunities in China, I found that there were very few companies that were able to offer any assistance and it was really difficult to penetrate a largely unknown country. I knew that China was going to be very different.\"The Olympic Games in August offers challenges and opportunities of its own, especially within Beijing - opportunities that Nivern has, like the Chinese, been building up to. \"This is a momentous moment for China,\" he says. \"It offers the Chinese two weeks when the whole world will be focused on them, and after being closed to the world for so many years, believe me, they are ready to make an impression.\"He is quick to acknowledge that the recent earthquake and flooding disasters may make bringing graduates to China during August more difficult. But he knows that the Olympics will give an insight into modern-day China, a country that the rest of the world in reality knows little about.\"Olympic fever is everywhere. There are billboards on street corners, clocks counting down, new buildings being erected all over the place, a new airport terminal with a new express train to the city, and two new lines of the subway,\" Nivern says. \"I made a calculated decision to prioritise Mandarin and understand Chinese culture rather than seek a job using my European language skills. This was based on the promise and the potential of China.\"For Nivern and anyone he has placed anywhere in China, they hope that when the Games come, they will have front-row seats as history unfolds.", "tags": ["Graduate careers", "Work & careers", "Education", "Forums", "Graduate"], "title": "Danny Vincent on the English graduates heading to China"},{"date": "2008-06-01T15:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Around 320,000 Britons visited China in 2007. One of the world's great cultures has finally embarked on a path towards prosperity. China is a much more comfortable and welcoming place than it has ever been. Last year, Tony Blair told us that because of economic changes and rising prosperity, the movement towards democracy in China is \"unstoppable.\"Everything from economic reforms to rising wealth levels, a growing and modern middle class (currently around 100-200 million people) behaving and acting like we do in Britain, and even granting Beijing the Olympics was meant to hasten the arrival of democracy in China. But since the Tiananmen Square protests in 1989, China is seemingly further away (pdf) from democracy.What happened? After all, the circumstances seem ripe for democratisation.There is apparently a strong correlation between free and open markets, and free societies. Prior to reforms in 1978, China's private sector produced less than 1% of output. Today Shanghai feels like a shining, new, cosmopolitan city. There are now 30 million private businesses in China producing over 70% of its national output.Yet political reform has stalled over the past decade. Importantly, the overwhelming majority of China's elites - entrepreneurs, professionals, intellectuals, students, journalists, and so on - have lost interest in political reform. When pressed, most express support for the political status quo and are even critical of the 1989 Tiananmen protests.In fact, these elites are the fastest-growing groups wanting to become members of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP). Almost a quarter of the 70 million party members are professionals and skilled workers. One third are college students, and another third are businesspeople. These elites, who were meant to lead the push toward democratisation, have become the party's newest and strongest supporters.The common mistake made in the west is to assume that while China's society and economy is rapidly changing, its authoritarian political institutions remain static. Those too quick to proclaim democracy on the horizon in China have underestimated the determination, capacity, and resourcefulness of the regime in its efforts to remain in power.Authoritarian regimes cannot afford to be made irrelevant by other forces. To preserve its economic relevance, the Chinese regime has gone to extensive efforts to maintain control of the major levers of economic power. This control is the heart of an economic structure that entrenches the role and position of party members in Chinese economy and society. Around a dozen key segments of the economy - including banking, construction, infrastructure, media, and telecommunications - are dominated by state-owned enterprises (SOEs). The state still owns a majority of the country's fixed assets and receives over two-thirds of the country's capital.The CCP has conducted a tireless and largely successful campaign to co-opt, and in many respects create, the rising educated and economic classes. By remaining the key economic player as well as overseeing an extensive system of awards, promotions, and regulation, the government continues to control and dispense a dominant share of the most valued economic, professional, and intellectual opportunities.This means that entrepreneurs are better off doing business as a \"partner\" of the state. Intellectuals and academics favoured by officials are granted generous research grants, are fast tracked into senior positions, and given personal perks. Journalists have little choice but to work for media outlets that are still subsidiaries of party organs. These are the contented middle classes emerging in China today. Far from being an independent class, why would these middle classes want to change toward a more democratic system when it could lead to their own dispossession?The CCP's hold on power remains vulnerable to a profound economic shock, such as a significant downturn in economic growth. This would impede the regime's continued capacity to co-opt and appease. Regardless, a Chinese middle class that looks and acts the same as we do in the west might nevertheless think very differently when it comes to democracy and the future of the country.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Why China doesn't break"},{"date": "2008-05-29T11:30:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "In March, as the uprising started in Tibet, I made my first visit to China. I was there to meet writers and translators, to try to understand what are euphemistically called the \"challenges\" facing my Chinese counterparts.As the crisis escalated, the gap between the accounts given by state media and the stories I was reading on the internet became ever greater. I got used to the television screen going blank every time CNN or the BBC played footage of the torch relay. I used proxies to view sites (including the Guardian) that were blocked by the authorities, and told myself that I was getting a feel for the absurdities of Chinese propaganda - the smiling Han children standing behind the reporter in Lhasa as he described how they'd been traumatised by the Tibetan rioters, the sinister fulminations against the Dalai Lama, the list of client states produced as evidence of \"global support\" for the Chinese crackdown.What I couldn't understand was the strength of patriotic feeling among ordinary Chinese people - not just those living behind the great firewall, whose access to information was heavily controlled, but international Chinese people living in places where they had every opportunity to learn about the repression, the executions, the torture. They were turning out in huge numbers to support their government, and to decry the anti-Chinese bias of the western news media. Why?I found an answer at the Wu Hou shrine in Chengdu, the city nearest the epicentre of the recent Sichuan earthquake. The shrine is an institution which has no exact parallel in the west, dedicated not to a supernatural deity or an unworldly saint, but to that most secular of things, an administrator. Zhuge Liang (AD181-234) was the prime minister of the Shu Han kingdom, a military strategist, scholar and statesman, whose tactical wisdom has become proverbial. Also known as Wu Hou (Marquis Wu) he's an important character in the Romance of the Three Kingdoms, one of the great Chinese classical novels.Just outside the shrine gate is Chengdu's Tibetan quarter, which at the time of my visit was locked down by riot police. Thousands of uniformed officers were patrolling the area, driving past the shops selling robes and other monastic paraphernalia, watched by sullen locals. Inside the tranquil precinct of the shrine hung inscriptions lauding Wu's many virtues - his insight, his bravery, his diligence, his inventiveness. However, I was struck that he was praised above all for the unity he brought to his people during a period of bloodshed and political turbulence. Again and again I was faced with calligraphic evidence, both ancient and modern, of a deepseated reverence for unity, harmony and territorial integrity. The fear of discord, evident in all cultures, is given cosmological importance in China. The shrine was a monument to the maintenance of political order in times of chaos.On another day, I attended a seminar where I listened to an argument between Howard Goldblatt, one of the most important translators of contemporary Chinese literature, and Jiang Rong, author of Wolf Totem, a hugely successful novel based on the author's experiences in Inner Mongolia, where he was sent during the cultural revolution. The novel describes the relationship between the Mongol herders and Han Chinese settlers who are disrupting the traditional ecology of their homeland. In its opening paragraph, a Mongol and a Han settler are in conversation. Jiang complained that in his version of this dialogue, Goldblatt had translated \"Han\" simply as \"Chinese\". This surely implied that the Mongols were not properly Chinese, or that China was in some sense a Han hegemony. Several members of the audience took umbrage at this, detecting sinister political insinuations. Did the westerner wish to imply that China had no legitimate right to the territory of its ethnic minorities? Was this yet another attack on national unity?By now over three million people have watched a bombastic youtube film called \"Why Tibet was, is and always will be part of China\" . Made by a 22-year-old Chinese Canadian student, it's a good document of Chinese ultra-nationalist sentiment, which sees in western support for Tibetan autonomy, and for human rights more generally, an attempt to undermine the harmony, integrity and unity of China - what in the jargon of the \"war on terror\" has become known as an \"existential threat\". Against this must be set voices like that of the novelist Ma Jian, whose recently published Beijing Coma looks set to become the definitive fictional account of the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989. Ma's unsentimental short stories about Tibet, and his profound disgust with the hypocrisy and cruelty he sees at the heart of the Chinese system have made him persona non grata in his home country, where much of his writing is banned.The spectrum of Chinese opinion is broad, and Western observers would do well to pay closer attention to its diversity. Above all we must accept the profound disconnection between international opinion, which sees respect for human rights as the foundation for a functional society, and that of Chinese nationalists, who view all appeals to human rights as a threat to sovereignty.It's sadly clear that in the era of \"humanitarian intervention\", there is some justification for this nervousness, as the human rights agenda has been degraded by its use as rhetorical support for US and UK foreign policy aims. I found out in Chengdu that it's not good enough to dismiss Chinese popular nationalism as the result of clever propaganda, let alone brainwashing. Nor can we see human rights as a self-evident set of truths, to which everyone would uncritically assent, were they allowed to do so by their governments. I believe it's vital to carry on making the case for human rights and freedom of expression as forcefully as possible in this Olympic year, but my visit to China showed me that in order to make that case, we need a more sophisticated dialogue, based on greater understanding of Chinese culture and history.\u2022 Hari Kunzru will chair Chinese Whispers, an event with Ma Jian, Diane Wei Liang and Liu Hong Cannon at 7pm on June 3 at the Guardian Newsroom, 60 Farringdon Road, London, EC1R 3GA.", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Hari Kunzru", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China: handle with care"},{"date": "2008-05-30T07:26:49Z", "country": "china", "content": "Shi Ying is a member of China's urban middle class. Her parents were workers in Hangzhou and she spent time during the Cultural Revolution in the countryside. She is now a magazine publisher in Shenzhen, where she lives with her husband and three dogs. Her daughter works in Beijing.MondayBreakfast: congee, bread and one egg. Cost this year: 3 yuan per person (cost last year: 2.5 yuan)Lunch: rice, cabbage, kidney bean, chicken paw, yoghurt. Cost 14 yuan/person (12 yuan) Dinner: pawpaw with bird-nest, steak, kidney bean, fried pork, pumpkin leaves, fish, cucumber, seedcake. Cost this year: 380 per person (280 yuan)Total cost for daily food this year: 397 yuan (294.5 yuan)Shi Ying often eats out with friends and relatives, they usually spent 50 to 100 yuan per person. But sometimes when they have meals with important guests they spend more. She also feels the pressure of price rises so instead of going to a restaurant every week she and her husband now hold more gatherings at home.TuesdayBreakfast: conjee, one egg, dumplings. Cost this year: 6 yuan (4.5)Lunch: rice, short rib, green vegetable, soup of corn, carrot and pig bones, tomato. Cost this year: 15 yuan per person (12)Dinner: With friends in a restaurant: beef, horsebeans, tofu, kidney beans, soup of kelp, soybean and pig bone, rice, water melon. Cost this year: 27/person (20)Total cost for daily food this year: 48 yuan (36.5)The price of the meat is more than twice as much as last year. But the main reason Shi Ying and her family buy less meat than before is because they wanted to avoid fat and unhealthy food. The family like soya products, they often eat tofu and other types of beans.WednesdayBreakfast: noodle with green vegetable, pancake, soya milk. Cost this year: 3 yuan (3)Lunch: fish, green vegetable, pork fried sweet bean, bread with butter, rice, kelp and pig bone soup. Cost this year: 20yuan/person (16)Dinner: beef, tofu, soy pork bone soup, rice. Cost this year: 25 yuan per person (20)Total cost for daily food last year: 48 yuan (39)Shi Ying and her family usually choose food according to whether it is healthy or not. But price is a factor. Since pork rose much more quickly than beef, they eat more beef. Apart from pig bones they don't buy pork products any more.ThursdayBreakfast: egg, congee, dumpling, rice noodle. Cost this year: 4 yuan/person (4)Lunch: duck, Chinese cabbage, kidney beans, rice and soup made from peanut, lotus root and pork. Cost this year: 22 yuan/person (15)Dinner: beef, tofu, grean vegetable, soy and pork bone soup, rice. Cost this year: 25 yuan (20)Cost for daily food this year 51 yuan (39)When Shi Ying was young, she felt very fortunate on the rare occasions when she could eat meat. But now, although she could afford to eat it every day she does not do so because of health concerns. She also worries about pesticide and fertilizer so she always chooses \"organic products\" even though they are more expensive.FridayBreakfast: bread, congee, egg fried rice noodle. Cost this year: 5 yuan (5)Lunch: beef fried potato, green vegetable, tofu, rice and pear. Cost this year: 18 (15)Dinner: tofu, beans, fish, rice. Cost this year: 20 yuan/person (19)Cost for daily food this year: 43 yuan (39)Even though the family have two incomes, Shi Ying feels prices are rising faster than she can handle. On weekly visits to the supermarket in the past, they would spend less than 300 yuan but now food buying trips cost them 400 to 500 yuan. Even the price of dog food increased by 30%.", "tags": ["Environment", "Food", "China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Food diary: Shenzhen, China"},{"date": "2008-05-19T12:38:48Z", "country": "china", "content": "China begins three days of mourning for the victims of last week's earthquake with many of the most moving tributes being made online.One of the survivors of the disaster was Tang Gouping, a science teacher and blogger from Beichuan middle school. A link to his last post seems to be redirected to a general memorial site for the victims. But his story is told here. This picture was taken at a sports day, held before the earthquake struck. Now 80% of the buildings have been destroyed in the area.Today's three minutes silence was marked, if not observed, by users on Twitter, the microblogging site where news of the quake and its aftermath spread so fast. The Shangaiist has a round up of memorial tweets. \"That was the loudest three minutes of silence I have ever heard,\" said one who like many was struck by the sound of sirens and car horns to mark the occasion.\"Seemingly everyone in Dalian beeped their horns and rang bell[s]\" said Alex Bowman. \"It is literally impossible not to be deeply, deeply moved,\" writes blogger Peking Duck. Everyone in his Beijing office stood silently when the clock struck 2.28pm, exactly a week after the quake. \"I will never make the mistake again of falling for the generalisation that the people here 'only think about themselves',\" he writes.\"China came to a virtual standstill,\" says blogger Zhongnanhai.\"This is the first time that the flag has been lowered for ordinary civilians in Chinese history, ever,\" writes Paul Denlinger on the China Vortex, who sees this as a key moment.He adds: \"For the first time, a Chinese government has embraced the idea that any human life, even that of ordinary human lives, has value. Actually, this is a very western concept, and is a very important step on the road to democracy.\"Green Bamboo describes how the silence was broken in his English class. \"One of the girls started crying and I could sense the emotional undercurrents in the class, especially afterwards. Then the class gradually got really noisy in a good way. Perhaps it was some sort of release for them after the serious start to the lesson.\"Banyue looks at how the Chinese press covered \"mourning day\". The post says: \"All Chinese newspapers nationwide all are printed only using black ink on the front pages today. Most big Chinese websites including Sina, Sohu, TIanya and Tudou have also removed color from their logos and home page.\" Image Thief says it was inappropriate of the government to temporarily black out the internet as a mark of respect. \"It is,\" the post says \"the kind of thing that would remind everyone that, 'Grandpa Wen' or not, the recent openness might have just been a brief honeymoon.\"Denlinger suggests such a view is a misreading of China. \"Sure, the government has an agenda and is spinning and exploiting this to make themselves look good. And in some ways, they are doing it in a clumsy way. But the government is now accountable to protect the lives of ordinary Chinese,\" he writes.Meanwhile, there still seems to be a lot of anger at the authorities whether its the response of the army, or corruption that allowed corners to be cut on school buildings. YouTube was one of the sites shut down for at least three minutes. Since then, state TV news footage of this noisy crowd in Beijing has been posted to the site.When was the last time such a large crowd shouted slogans in Beijing?, asks the Opposite End of China.", "tags": ["World news", "China earthquake", "China", "Asia Pacific", "Earthquakes"], "title": "China earthquake: mourning online"},{"date": "2008-06-06T23:11:12Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has long inspired interest among graduates looking to broaden their horizons while adding to their CVs. The vast landscape, mystique and culture exceeds the nation's borders, but for all its thousands of years of history, it is the current expectations of the nation which is now capturing the imagination of many.\"I graduated in French and German from Oxford University in 2003, but realised that the bigger opportunities actually lay eastwards,\" says Daniel Nivern, 27-year-old director and founder of China Recruitment, an organisation that he set up two years ago to bring UK workers to China, linking them with Chinese companies and businesses that have a need for English speakers.Being based in China is not without its advantages. \"Our costs are massively lower in Beijing than in London. This includes everything - office space, travel, salaries, stationary, phone lines. In fact, you can easily get carried away and end up spending money carelessly,\" Nivern says.The first time he touched down in China he had no knowledge of the language and no experience of Asia. Yet you can sense that his optimism helped him make it work in a country that shares so little with his own culture. But then again, this is his job.\"Chinese is a great language to learn and it's surprisingly easy to start communicating after a couple of weeks. The grammar is less difficult than that of most European languages,\" he says, but does admit that he still struggles with getting the complex different tones in the language.Now his company helps to bring UK graduates to China. He set up his company in Beijing with just \u00a31,000 of start-up money and now employs six full-time British and Chinese staff in the company's office in Beijing, after hitting the business networking schemes around the city.\"The first six months were tough. It took time before things started to take shape,\" Nivern says. But it seems for those setting up business in China, the most valuable currency is local knowledge and an understanding of the culture.\"It is a land of opportunity, says Luke Hambleton, a 25-year-old graduate who studied Chinese and sinology at the School of Oriental and African Studies in London. He started out as a teacher and went on to co-found a consultancy in Beijing which advises UK business on how to deal with business in China. He writes papers on sectors and the culture of Chinese business.\"One of the biggest mistakes that people in the UK make about China is they misunderstand people's attitudes towards the communist state. It is common to see and hear the state and politics satirized and mocked in a way that many people in the UK would simply assume was unthinkable,\" Hambleton says.But it is necessary to recognise the differences between the west and China, as Rebecca Robinson, a 24-year-old graduate, who studied Chinese and history at the University of Leeds realised. She first worked as a teacher in Liuzhou, in Guangxi province in the south of China before she moved on to work for China Recruitment as a programme organiser, where she liaises with British applicants and her counterparts in Beijing and around the country.\"In China, you sometimes need to be patient and understand that things are more difficult,\" Robinson says. Hambleton agrees: \"Sometimes when drawing up and discussing a contract with your Chinese business partner, it is quite common for certain key points to be hurried and renegotiated at the last minute when everything appeared to be signed and sealed. Many barriers such as language and cultural attitudes can really hinder deals.\"The Chinese often talk of the post-1980 generation - those entering the workforce at the same time as China itself is developing economically. They have the chance to define themselves and their own identity. This is the China of the new and one of an entrepreneurial spirit, they say.\"The Chinese are extremely pragmatic and for all the notions of a communist society, they have a very capitalist spirit. Building close relationships is absolutely key and this takes time, effort, patience and understanding,\" Nivern says. \"When I started researching working opportunities in China, I found that there were very few companies that were able to offer any assistance and it was really difficult to penetrate a largely unknown country. I knew that China was going to be very different.\"The Olympic Games in August offers challenges and opportunities of its own, especially within Beijing - opportunities that Nivern has, like the Chinese, been building up to. \"This is a momentous moment for China,\" he says. \"It offers the Chinese two weeks when the whole world will be focused on them, and after being closed to the world for so many years, believe me, they are ready to make an impression.\"He is quick to acknowledge that the recent earthquake and flooding disasters may make bringing graduates to China during August more difficult. But he knows that the Olympics will give an insight into modern-day China, a country that the rest of the world in reality knows little about.\"Olympic fever is everywhere. There are billboards on street corners, clocks counting down, new buildings being erected all over the place, a new airport terminal with a new express train to the city, and two new lines of the subway,\" Nivern says. \"I made a calculated decision to prioritise Mandarin and understand Chinese culture rather than seek a job using my European language skills. This was based on the promise and the potential of China.\"For Nivern and anyone he has placed anywhere in China, they hope that when the Games come, they will have front-row seats as history unfolds.", "tags": ["Graduate careers", "Work & careers", "Education", "Forums", "Graduate"], "title": "Danny Vincent on the English graduates heading to China"},{"date": "2008-06-01T15:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Around 320,000 Britons visited China in 2007. One of the world's great cultures has finally embarked on a path towards prosperity. China is a much more comfortable and welcoming place than it has ever been. Last year, Tony Blair told us that because of economic changes and rising prosperity, the movement towards democracy in China is \"unstoppable.\"Everything from economic reforms to rising wealth levels, a growing and modern middle class (currently around 100-200 million people) behaving and acting like we do in Britain, and even granting Beijing the Olympics was meant to hasten the arrival of democracy in China. But since the Tiananmen Square protests in 1989, China is seemingly further away (pdf) from democracy.What happened? After all, the circumstances seem ripe for democratisation.There is apparently a strong correlation between free and open markets, and free societies. Prior to reforms in 1978, China's private sector produced less than 1% of output. Today Shanghai feels like a shining, new, cosmopolitan city. There are now 30 million private businesses in China producing over 70% of its national output.Yet political reform has stalled over the past decade. Importantly, the overwhelming majority of China's elites - entrepreneurs, professionals, intellectuals, students, journalists, and so on - have lost interest in political reform. When pressed, most express support for the political status quo and are even critical of the 1989 Tiananmen protests.In fact, these elites are the fastest-growing groups wanting to become members of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP). Almost a quarter of the 70 million party members are professionals and skilled workers. One third are college students, and another third are businesspeople. These elites, who were meant to lead the push toward democratisation, have become the party's newest and strongest supporters.The common mistake made in the west is to assume that while China's society and economy is rapidly changing, its authoritarian political institutions remain static. Those too quick to proclaim democracy on the horizon in China have underestimated the determination, capacity, and resourcefulness of the regime in its efforts to remain in power.Authoritarian regimes cannot afford to be made irrelevant by other forces. To preserve its economic relevance, the Chinese regime has gone to extensive efforts to maintain control of the major levers of economic power. This control is the heart of an economic structure that entrenches the role and position of party members in Chinese economy and society. Around a dozen key segments of the economy - including banking, construction, infrastructure, media, and telecommunications - are dominated by state-owned enterprises (SOEs). The state still owns a majority of the country's fixed assets and receives over two-thirds of the country's capital.The CCP has conducted a tireless and largely successful campaign to co-opt, and in many respects create, the rising educated and economic classes. By remaining the key economic player as well as overseeing an extensive system of awards, promotions, and regulation, the government continues to control and dispense a dominant share of the most valued economic, professional, and intellectual opportunities.This means that entrepreneurs are better off doing business as a \"partner\" of the state. Intellectuals and academics favoured by officials are granted generous research grants, are fast tracked into senior positions, and given personal perks. Journalists have little choice but to work for media outlets that are still subsidiaries of party organs. These are the contented middle classes emerging in China today. Far from being an independent class, why would these middle classes want to change toward a more democratic system when it could lead to their own dispossession?The CCP's hold on power remains vulnerable to a profound economic shock, such as a significant downturn in economic growth. This would impede the regime's continued capacity to co-opt and appease. Regardless, a Chinese middle class that looks and acts the same as we do in the west might nevertheless think very differently when it comes to democracy and the future of the country.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Why China doesn't break"},{"date": "2008-05-29T11:30:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "In March, as the uprising started in Tibet, I made my first visit to China. I was there to meet writers and translators, to try to understand what are euphemistically called the \"challenges\" facing my Chinese counterparts.As the crisis escalated, the gap between the accounts given by state media and the stories I was reading on the internet became ever greater. I got used to the television screen going blank every time CNN or the BBC played footage of the torch relay. I used proxies to view sites (including the Guardian) that were blocked by the authorities, and told myself that I was getting a feel for the absurdities of Chinese propaganda - the smiling Han children standing behind the reporter in Lhasa as he described how they'd been traumatised by the Tibetan rioters, the sinister fulminations against the Dalai Lama, the list of client states produced as evidence of \"global support\" for the Chinese crackdown.What I couldn't understand was the strength of patriotic feeling among ordinary Chinese people - not just those living behind the great firewall, whose access to information was heavily controlled, but international Chinese people living in places where they had every opportunity to learn about the repression, the executions, the torture. They were turning out in huge numbers to support their government, and to decry the anti-Chinese bias of the western news media. Why?I found an answer at the Wu Hou shrine in Chengdu, the city nearest the epicentre of the recent Sichuan earthquake. The shrine is an institution which has no exact parallel in the west, dedicated not to a supernatural deity or an unworldly saint, but to that most secular of things, an administrator. Zhuge Liang (AD181-234) was the prime minister of the Shu Han kingdom, a military strategist, scholar and statesman, whose tactical wisdom has become proverbial. Also known as Wu Hou (Marquis Wu) he's an important character in the Romance of the Three Kingdoms, one of the great Chinese classical novels.Just outside the shrine gate is Chengdu's Tibetan quarter, which at the time of my visit was locked down by riot police. Thousands of uniformed officers were patrolling the area, driving past the shops selling robes and other monastic paraphernalia, watched by sullen locals. Inside the tranquil precinct of the shrine hung inscriptions lauding Wu's many virtues - his insight, his bravery, his diligence, his inventiveness. However, I was struck that he was praised above all for the unity he brought to his people during a period of bloodshed and political turbulence. Again and again I was faced with calligraphic evidence, both ancient and modern, of a deepseated reverence for unity, harmony and territorial integrity. The fear of discord, evident in all cultures, is given cosmological importance in China. The shrine was a monument to the maintenance of political order in times of chaos.On another day, I attended a seminar where I listened to an argument between Howard Goldblatt, one of the most important translators of contemporary Chinese literature, and Jiang Rong, author of Wolf Totem, a hugely successful novel based on the author's experiences in Inner Mongolia, where he was sent during the cultural revolution. The novel describes the relationship between the Mongol herders and Han Chinese settlers who are disrupting the traditional ecology of their homeland. In its opening paragraph, a Mongol and a Han settler are in conversation. Jiang complained that in his version of this dialogue, Goldblatt had translated \"Han\" simply as \"Chinese\". This surely implied that the Mongols were not properly Chinese, or that China was in some sense a Han hegemony. Several members of the audience took umbrage at this, detecting sinister political insinuations. Did the westerner wish to imply that China had no legitimate right to the territory of its ethnic minorities? Was this yet another attack on national unity?By now over three million people have watched a bombastic youtube film called \"Why Tibet was, is and always will be part of China\" . Made by a 22-year-old Chinese Canadian student, it's a good document of Chinese ultra-nationalist sentiment, which sees in western support for Tibetan autonomy, and for human rights more generally, an attempt to undermine the harmony, integrity and unity of China - what in the jargon of the \"war on terror\" has become known as an \"existential threat\". Against this must be set voices like that of the novelist Ma Jian, whose recently published Beijing Coma looks set to become the definitive fictional account of the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989. Ma's unsentimental short stories about Tibet, and his profound disgust with the hypocrisy and cruelty he sees at the heart of the Chinese system have made him persona non grata in his home country, where much of his writing is banned.The spectrum of Chinese opinion is broad, and Western observers would do well to pay closer attention to its diversity. Above all we must accept the profound disconnection between international opinion, which sees respect for human rights as the foundation for a functional society, and that of Chinese nationalists, who view all appeals to human rights as a threat to sovereignty.It's sadly clear that in the era of \"humanitarian intervention\", there is some justification for this nervousness, as the human rights agenda has been degraded by its use as rhetorical support for US and UK foreign policy aims. I found out in Chengdu that it's not good enough to dismiss Chinese popular nationalism as the result of clever propaganda, let alone brainwashing. Nor can we see human rights as a self-evident set of truths, to which everyone would uncritically assent, were they allowed to do so by their governments. I believe it's vital to carry on making the case for human rights and freedom of expression as forcefully as possible in this Olympic year, but my visit to China showed me that in order to make that case, we need a more sophisticated dialogue, based on greater understanding of Chinese culture and history.\u2022 Hari Kunzru will chair Chinese Whispers, an event with Ma Jian, Diane Wei Liang and Liu Hong Cannon at 7pm on June 3 at the Guardian Newsroom, 60 Farringdon Road, London, EC1R 3GA.", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Hari Kunzru", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China: handle with care"},{"date": "2008-05-30T07:26:49Z", "country": "china", "content": "Shi Ying is a member of China's urban middle class. Her parents were workers in Hangzhou and she spent time during the Cultural Revolution in the countryside. She is now a magazine publisher in Shenzhen, where she lives with her husband and three dogs. Her daughter works in Beijing.MondayBreakfast: congee, bread and one egg. Cost this year: 3 yuan per person (cost last year: 2.5 yuan)Lunch: rice, cabbage, kidney bean, chicken paw, yoghurt. Cost 14 yuan/person (12 yuan) Dinner: pawpaw with bird-nest, steak, kidney bean, fried pork, pumpkin leaves, fish, cucumber, seedcake. Cost this year: 380 per person (280 yuan)Total cost for daily food this year: 397 yuan (294.5 yuan)Shi Ying often eats out with friends and relatives, they usually spent 50 to 100 yuan per person. But sometimes when they have meals with important guests they spend more. She also feels the pressure of price rises so instead of going to a restaurant every week she and her husband now hold more gatherings at home.TuesdayBreakfast: conjee, one egg, dumplings. Cost this year: 6 yuan (4.5)Lunch: rice, short rib, green vegetable, soup of corn, carrot and pig bones, tomato. Cost this year: 15 yuan per person (12)Dinner: With friends in a restaurant: beef, horsebeans, tofu, kidney beans, soup of kelp, soybean and pig bone, rice, water melon. Cost this year: 27/person (20)Total cost for daily food this year: 48 yuan (36.5)The price of the meat is more than twice as much as last year. But the main reason Shi Ying and her family buy less meat than before is because they wanted to avoid fat and unhealthy food. The family like soya products, they often eat tofu and other types of beans.WednesdayBreakfast: noodle with green vegetable, pancake, soya milk. Cost this year: 3 yuan (3)Lunch: fish, green vegetable, pork fried sweet bean, bread with butter, rice, kelp and pig bone soup. Cost this year: 20yuan/person (16)Dinner: beef, tofu, soy pork bone soup, rice. Cost this year: 25 yuan per person (20)Total cost for daily food last year: 48 yuan (39)Shi Ying and her family usually choose food according to whether it is healthy or not. But price is a factor. Since pork rose much more quickly than beef, they eat more beef. Apart from pig bones they don't buy pork products any more.ThursdayBreakfast: egg, congee, dumpling, rice noodle. Cost this year: 4 yuan/person (4)Lunch: duck, Chinese cabbage, kidney beans, rice and soup made from peanut, lotus root and pork. Cost this year: 22 yuan/person (15)Dinner: beef, tofu, grean vegetable, soy and pork bone soup, rice. Cost this year: 25 yuan (20)Cost for daily food this year 51 yuan (39)When Shi Ying was young, she felt very fortunate on the rare occasions when she could eat meat. But now, although she could afford to eat it every day she does not do so because of health concerns. She also worries about pesticide and fertilizer so she always chooses \"organic products\" even though they are more expensive.FridayBreakfast: bread, congee, egg fried rice noodle. Cost this year: 5 yuan (5)Lunch: beef fried potato, green vegetable, tofu, rice and pear. Cost this year: 18 (15)Dinner: tofu, beans, fish, rice. Cost this year: 20 yuan/person (19)Cost for daily food this year: 43 yuan (39)Even though the family have two incomes, Shi Ying feels prices are rising faster than she can handle. On weekly visits to the supermarket in the past, they would spend less than 300 yuan but now food buying trips cost them 400 to 500 yuan. Even the price of dog food increased by 30%.", "tags": ["Environment", "Food", "China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Food diary: Shenzhen, China"},{"date": "2008-05-19T12:38:48Z", "country": "china", "content": "China begins three days of mourning for the victims of last week's earthquake with many of the most moving tributes being made online.One of the survivors of the disaster was Tang Gouping, a science teacher and blogger from Beichuan middle school. A link to his last post seems to be redirected to a general memorial site for the victims. But his story is told here. This picture was taken at a sports day, held before the earthquake struck. Now 80% of the buildings have been destroyed in the area.Today's three minutes silence was marked, if not observed, by users on Twitter, the microblogging site where news of the quake and its aftermath spread so fast. The Shangaiist has a round up of memorial tweets. \"That was the loudest three minutes of silence I have ever heard,\" said one who like many was struck by the sound of sirens and car horns to mark the occasion.\"Seemingly everyone in Dalian beeped their horns and rang bell[s]\" said Alex Bowman. \"It is literally impossible not to be deeply, deeply moved,\" writes blogger Peking Duck. Everyone in his Beijing office stood silently when the clock struck 2.28pm, exactly a week after the quake. \"I will never make the mistake again of falling for the generalisation that the people here 'only think about themselves',\" he writes.\"China came to a virtual standstill,\" says blogger Zhongnanhai.\"This is the first time that the flag has been lowered for ordinary civilians in Chinese history, ever,\" writes Paul Denlinger on the China Vortex, who sees this as a key moment.He adds: \"For the first time, a Chinese government has embraced the idea that any human life, even that of ordinary human lives, has value. Actually, this is a very western concept, and is a very important step on the road to democracy.\"Green Bamboo describes how the silence was broken in his English class. \"One of the girls started crying and I could sense the emotional undercurrents in the class, especially afterwards. Then the class gradually got really noisy in a good way. Perhaps it was some sort of release for them after the serious start to the lesson.\"Banyue looks at how the Chinese press covered \"mourning day\". The post says: \"All Chinese newspapers nationwide all are printed only using black ink on the front pages today. Most big Chinese websites including Sina, Sohu, TIanya and Tudou have also removed color from their logos and home page.\" Image Thief says it was inappropriate of the government to temporarily black out the internet as a mark of respect. \"It is,\" the post says \"the kind of thing that would remind everyone that, 'Grandpa Wen' or not, the recent openness might have just been a brief honeymoon.\"Denlinger suggests such a view is a misreading of China. \"Sure, the government has an agenda and is spinning and exploiting this to make themselves look good. And in some ways, they are doing it in a clumsy way. But the government is now accountable to protect the lives of ordinary Chinese,\" he writes.Meanwhile, there still seems to be a lot of anger at the authorities whether its the response of the army, or corruption that allowed corners to be cut on school buildings. YouTube was one of the sites shut down for at least three minutes. Since then, state TV news footage of this noisy crowd in Beijing has been posted to the site.When was the last time such a large crowd shouted slogans in Beijing?, asks the Opposite End of China.", "tags": ["World news", "China earthquake", "China", "Asia Pacific", "Earthquakes"], "title": "China earthquake: mourning online"},{"date": "2008-05-14T09:47:58Z", "country": "china", "content": "Thousands of Chinese troops have been airlifted to the disaster zone to search for survivors of Monday's earthquakes, as the death toll continues to mount.Scroll down and refresh for news and reaction. Leave your comments and updates11amThe official death toll has risen to 14,866, according to a news flash on the state-owned Xinhua agency. It is unclear whether this includes the 7,700 confirmed dead in Yingxiu in Wenchuan county, at the epicentre of the quake. A further 18,645 are believed buried under rubble in Mianyang, 60 miles from the epicentre.11.25amState television CCTV broadcasts harrowing scenes from a primary school in Mianyang.11.40amThe Telegraph reports that almost 60,000 people are missing.The confusion about the number of dead and missing is illustrated by the latest update from Xinhua. It reads: \"Li Chengyun, vice-governor of Sichuan, said at a news conference that the death toll, based on incomplete figures, tallied 14,463 by 4pm on Wednesday. He said another 14,051 were missing, 25,788 buried in debris, and 64,746 injured.\"12.10pmNews of the disaster has been spreading rapidly on the microblogging site Twitter and its Chinese equivalents. News is coming via Twiddeo (a new one on me - it appears to be a video sharing/microblogging site). A clip here shows the problems caused by extraordinary landslides.12.25pmTwitter user Starry Forest says there has been an explosion at a chemical works in the city of Dujiangyan, according to a Google translation. 12.45pm100 parachute troops have landed in the cut-off Maoxian county, north-east of the epicentre, according to one of the latest updates from Xinhua, and 50 foreigners stranded in the Wolong panda park have been contacted. 12.55pmA collapsed bridge has left 100,000 people stranded in Sichuan's Beidu mountains, according to Sina.com.1.10pmHundreds of distressing photos of the earthquake and its aftermath have been posted to Flickr [warning: disturbing content].2.10amThe UK's ambassador to China, Sir William Ehrman, has praised China's fast and open response to the disaster. He told Sky News that as many as 100,000 troops have been deployed. 2.15pmJust as Sir William was praising China's openness, it was announced that the authorities have arrested two people for \"spreading quake-related rumours\" on the internet.One of them is accused of speculating that a department store had collapsed when it hadn't, the other is accused of passing off pictures of crowds running to see the Olympic flame as people fleeing the quake. \"Citizens should support the disaster relief work rather than create and spread rumors,\" ordered Liu Kun from Chongqing Public Security Bureau.2.30pmThere are 70,000 people missing in Wenchuan, Fanfou users 6 Health reports.2.50pm2,000 troops have been sent to plug holes in a dam above Dujiangyan, where 500,000 live.2.55pmEmergency services should continue to look for survivors in the rubble for weeks, according to UK Fire Service Search and Rescue. It also criticises the media for describing the rescue of survivors as \"miraculous\". In a briefing on Earthquake Rescue it says: \"To the trained eye of firefighters and members of urban search and rescue teams, it should be assumed (until proven otherwise) that many collapsed buildings will be honeycombed with void spaces.It adds: \"Emergency officials should be planning to pull live victims from the rubble up to three weeks after catastrophic earthquakes, and they should be prepared to sustain non-stop search and rescue operations until all hope of locating viable victims has passed. The public has the right to expect this level of response to devastating quakes.\"3.30pmTheres are extraordinary before and after pictures of Bei-chuan on this post on Global Voices.3.35pm The Chinese authorities are clearly anxious to impress the foreign media in their response to the earthquake, judging by this clip from the state broadcaster CCTV. For more information on the earthquake, including audio reports, pictures, video and an interactive guide, go here", "tags": ["World news", "Earthquakes"], "title": "China earthquake: disaster response"},{"date": "2008-06-06T23:11:12Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has long inspired interest among graduates looking to broaden their horizons while adding to their CVs. The vast landscape, mystique and culture exceeds the nation's borders, but for all its thousands of years of history, it is the current expectations of the nation which is now capturing the imagination of many.\"I graduated in French and German from Oxford University in 2003, but realised that the bigger opportunities actually lay eastwards,\" says Daniel Nivern, 27-year-old director and founder of China Recruitment, an organisation that he set up two years ago to bring UK workers to China, linking them with Chinese companies and businesses that have a need for English speakers.Being based in China is not without its advantages. \"Our costs are massively lower in Beijing than in London. This includes everything - office space, travel, salaries, stationary, phone lines. In fact, you can easily get carried away and end up spending money carelessly,\" Nivern says.The first time he touched down in China he had no knowledge of the language and no experience of Asia. Yet you can sense that his optimism helped him make it work in a country that shares so little with his own culture. But then again, this is his job.\"Chinese is a great language to learn and it's surprisingly easy to start communicating after a couple of weeks. The grammar is less difficult than that of most European languages,\" he says, but does admit that he still struggles with getting the complex different tones in the language.Now his company helps to bring UK graduates to China. He set up his company in Beijing with just \u00a31,000 of start-up money and now employs six full-time British and Chinese staff in the company's office in Beijing, after hitting the business networking schemes around the city.\"The first six months were tough. It took time before things started to take shape,\" Nivern says. But it seems for those setting up business in China, the most valuable currency is local knowledge and an understanding of the culture.\"It is a land of opportunity, says Luke Hambleton, a 25-year-old graduate who studied Chinese and sinology at the School of Oriental and African Studies in London. He started out as a teacher and went on to co-found a consultancy in Beijing which advises UK business on how to deal with business in China. He writes papers on sectors and the culture of Chinese business.\"One of the biggest mistakes that people in the UK make about China is they misunderstand people's attitudes towards the communist state. It is common to see and hear the state and politics satirized and mocked in a way that many people in the UK would simply assume was unthinkable,\" Hambleton says.But it is necessary to recognise the differences between the west and China, as Rebecca Robinson, a 24-year-old graduate, who studied Chinese and history at the University of Leeds realised. She first worked as a teacher in Liuzhou, in Guangxi province in the south of China before she moved on to work for China Recruitment as a programme organiser, where she liaises with British applicants and her counterparts in Beijing and around the country.\"In China, you sometimes need to be patient and understand that things are more difficult,\" Robinson says. Hambleton agrees: \"Sometimes when drawing up and discussing a contract with your Chinese business partner, it is quite common for certain key points to be hurried and renegotiated at the last minute when everything appeared to be signed and sealed. Many barriers such as language and cultural attitudes can really hinder deals.\"The Chinese often talk of the post-1980 generation - those entering the workforce at the same time as China itself is developing economically. They have the chance to define themselves and their own identity. This is the China of the new and one of an entrepreneurial spirit, they say.\"The Chinese are extremely pragmatic and for all the notions of a communist society, they have a very capitalist spirit. Building close relationships is absolutely key and this takes time, effort, patience and understanding,\" Nivern says. \"When I started researching working opportunities in China, I found that there were very few companies that were able to offer any assistance and it was really difficult to penetrate a largely unknown country. I knew that China was going to be very different.\"The Olympic Games in August offers challenges and opportunities of its own, especially within Beijing - opportunities that Nivern has, like the Chinese, been building up to. \"This is a momentous moment for China,\" he says. \"It offers the Chinese two weeks when the whole world will be focused on them, and after being closed to the world for so many years, believe me, they are ready to make an impression.\"He is quick to acknowledge that the recent earthquake and flooding disasters may make bringing graduates to China during August more difficult. But he knows that the Olympics will give an insight into modern-day China, a country that the rest of the world in reality knows little about.\"Olympic fever is everywhere. There are billboards on street corners, clocks counting down, new buildings being erected all over the place, a new airport terminal with a new express train to the city, and two new lines of the subway,\" Nivern says. \"I made a calculated decision to prioritise Mandarin and understand Chinese culture rather than seek a job using my European language skills. This was based on the promise and the potential of China.\"For Nivern and anyone he has placed anywhere in China, they hope that when the Games come, they will have front-row seats as history unfolds.", "tags": ["Graduate careers", "Work & careers", "Education", "Forums", "Graduate"], "title": "Danny Vincent on the English graduates heading to China"},{"date": "2008-06-01T15:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Around 320,000 Britons visited China in 2007. One of the world's great cultures has finally embarked on a path towards prosperity. China is a much more comfortable and welcoming place than it has ever been. Last year, Tony Blair told us that because of economic changes and rising prosperity, the movement towards democracy in China is \"unstoppable.\"Everything from economic reforms to rising wealth levels, a growing and modern middle class (currently around 100-200 million people) behaving and acting like we do in Britain, and even granting Beijing the Olympics was meant to hasten the arrival of democracy in China. But since the Tiananmen Square protests in 1989, China is seemingly further away (pdf) from democracy.What happened? After all, the circumstances seem ripe for democratisation.There is apparently a strong correlation between free and open markets, and free societies. Prior to reforms in 1978, China's private sector produced less than 1% of output. Today Shanghai feels like a shining, new, cosmopolitan city. There are now 30 million private businesses in China producing over 70% of its national output.Yet political reform has stalled over the past decade. Importantly, the overwhelming majority of China's elites - entrepreneurs, professionals, intellectuals, students, journalists, and so on - have lost interest in political reform. When pressed, most express support for the political status quo and are even critical of the 1989 Tiananmen protests.In fact, these elites are the fastest-growing groups wanting to become members of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP). Almost a quarter of the 70 million party members are professionals and skilled workers. One third are college students, and another third are businesspeople. These elites, who were meant to lead the push toward democratisation, have become the party's newest and strongest supporters.The common mistake made in the west is to assume that while China's society and economy is rapidly changing, its authoritarian political institutions remain static. Those too quick to proclaim democracy on the horizon in China have underestimated the determination, capacity, and resourcefulness of the regime in its efforts to remain in power.Authoritarian regimes cannot afford to be made irrelevant by other forces. To preserve its economic relevance, the Chinese regime has gone to extensive efforts to maintain control of the major levers of economic power. This control is the heart of an economic structure that entrenches the role and position of party members in Chinese economy and society. Around a dozen key segments of the economy - including banking, construction, infrastructure, media, and telecommunications - are dominated by state-owned enterprises (SOEs). The state still owns a majority of the country's fixed assets and receives over two-thirds of the country's capital.The CCP has conducted a tireless and largely successful campaign to co-opt, and in many respects create, the rising educated and economic classes. By remaining the key economic player as well as overseeing an extensive system of awards, promotions, and regulation, the government continues to control and dispense a dominant share of the most valued economic, professional, and intellectual opportunities.This means that entrepreneurs are better off doing business as a \"partner\" of the state. Intellectuals and academics favoured by officials are granted generous research grants, are fast tracked into senior positions, and given personal perks. Journalists have little choice but to work for media outlets that are still subsidiaries of party organs. These are the contented middle classes emerging in China today. Far from being an independent class, why would these middle classes want to change toward a more democratic system when it could lead to their own dispossession?The CCP's hold on power remains vulnerable to a profound economic shock, such as a significant downturn in economic growth. This would impede the regime's continued capacity to co-opt and appease. Regardless, a Chinese middle class that looks and acts the same as we do in the west might nevertheless think very differently when it comes to democracy and the future of the country.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Why China doesn't break"},{"date": "2008-05-29T11:30:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "In March, as the uprising started in Tibet, I made my first visit to China. I was there to meet writers and translators, to try to understand what are euphemistically called the \"challenges\" facing my Chinese counterparts.As the crisis escalated, the gap between the accounts given by state media and the stories I was reading on the internet became ever greater. I got used to the television screen going blank every time CNN or the BBC played footage of the torch relay. I used proxies to view sites (including the Guardian) that were blocked by the authorities, and told myself that I was getting a feel for the absurdities of Chinese propaganda - the smiling Han children standing behind the reporter in Lhasa as he described how they'd been traumatised by the Tibetan rioters, the sinister fulminations against the Dalai Lama, the list of client states produced as evidence of \"global support\" for the Chinese crackdown.What I couldn't understand was the strength of patriotic feeling among ordinary Chinese people - not just those living behind the great firewall, whose access to information was heavily controlled, but international Chinese people living in places where they had every opportunity to learn about the repression, the executions, the torture. They were turning out in huge numbers to support their government, and to decry the anti-Chinese bias of the western news media. Why?I found an answer at the Wu Hou shrine in Chengdu, the city nearest the epicentre of the recent Sichuan earthquake. The shrine is an institution which has no exact parallel in the west, dedicated not to a supernatural deity or an unworldly saint, but to that most secular of things, an administrator. Zhuge Liang (AD181-234) was the prime minister of the Shu Han kingdom, a military strategist, scholar and statesman, whose tactical wisdom has become proverbial. Also known as Wu Hou (Marquis Wu) he's an important character in the Romance of the Three Kingdoms, one of the great Chinese classical novels.Just outside the shrine gate is Chengdu's Tibetan quarter, which at the time of my visit was locked down by riot police. Thousands of uniformed officers were patrolling the area, driving past the shops selling robes and other monastic paraphernalia, watched by sullen locals. Inside the tranquil precinct of the shrine hung inscriptions lauding Wu's many virtues - his insight, his bravery, his diligence, his inventiveness. However, I was struck that he was praised above all for the unity he brought to his people during a period of bloodshed and political turbulence. Again and again I was faced with calligraphic evidence, both ancient and modern, of a deepseated reverence for unity, harmony and territorial integrity. The fear of discord, evident in all cultures, is given cosmological importance in China. The shrine was a monument to the maintenance of political order in times of chaos.On another day, I attended a seminar where I listened to an argument between Howard Goldblatt, one of the most important translators of contemporary Chinese literature, and Jiang Rong, author of Wolf Totem, a hugely successful novel based on the author's experiences in Inner Mongolia, where he was sent during the cultural revolution. The novel describes the relationship between the Mongol herders and Han Chinese settlers who are disrupting the traditional ecology of their homeland. In its opening paragraph, a Mongol and a Han settler are in conversation. Jiang complained that in his version of this dialogue, Goldblatt had translated \"Han\" simply as \"Chinese\". This surely implied that the Mongols were not properly Chinese, or that China was in some sense a Han hegemony. Several members of the audience took umbrage at this, detecting sinister political insinuations. Did the westerner wish to imply that China had no legitimate right to the territory of its ethnic minorities? Was this yet another attack on national unity?By now over three million people have watched a bombastic youtube film called \"Why Tibet was, is and always will be part of China\" . Made by a 22-year-old Chinese Canadian student, it's a good document of Chinese ultra-nationalist sentiment, which sees in western support for Tibetan autonomy, and for human rights more generally, an attempt to undermine the harmony, integrity and unity of China - what in the jargon of the \"war on terror\" has become known as an \"existential threat\". Against this must be set voices like that of the novelist Ma Jian, whose recently published Beijing Coma looks set to become the definitive fictional account of the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989. Ma's unsentimental short stories about Tibet, and his profound disgust with the hypocrisy and cruelty he sees at the heart of the Chinese system have made him persona non grata in his home country, where much of his writing is banned.The spectrum of Chinese opinion is broad, and Western observers would do well to pay closer attention to its diversity. Above all we must accept the profound disconnection between international opinion, which sees respect for human rights as the foundation for a functional society, and that of Chinese nationalists, who view all appeals to human rights as a threat to sovereignty.It's sadly clear that in the era of \"humanitarian intervention\", there is some justification for this nervousness, as the human rights agenda has been degraded by its use as rhetorical support for US and UK foreign policy aims. I found out in Chengdu that it's not good enough to dismiss Chinese popular nationalism as the result of clever propaganda, let alone brainwashing. Nor can we see human rights as a self-evident set of truths, to which everyone would uncritically assent, were they allowed to do so by their governments. I believe it's vital to carry on making the case for human rights and freedom of expression as forcefully as possible in this Olympic year, but my visit to China showed me that in order to make that case, we need a more sophisticated dialogue, based on greater understanding of Chinese culture and history.\u2022 Hari Kunzru will chair Chinese Whispers, an event with Ma Jian, Diane Wei Liang and Liu Hong Cannon at 7pm on June 3 at the Guardian Newsroom, 60 Farringdon Road, London, EC1R 3GA.", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Hari Kunzru", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China: handle with care"},{"date": "2008-05-30T07:26:49Z", "country": "china", "content": "Shi Ying is a member of China's urban middle class. Her parents were workers in Hangzhou and she spent time during the Cultural Revolution in the countryside. She is now a magazine publisher in Shenzhen, where she lives with her husband and three dogs. Her daughter works in Beijing.MondayBreakfast: congee, bread and one egg. Cost this year: 3 yuan per person (cost last year: 2.5 yuan)Lunch: rice, cabbage, kidney bean, chicken paw, yoghurt. Cost 14 yuan/person (12 yuan) Dinner: pawpaw with bird-nest, steak, kidney bean, fried pork, pumpkin leaves, fish, cucumber, seedcake. Cost this year: 380 per person (280 yuan)Total cost for daily food this year: 397 yuan (294.5 yuan)Shi Ying often eats out with friends and relatives, they usually spent 50 to 100 yuan per person. But sometimes when they have meals with important guests they spend more. She also feels the pressure of price rises so instead of going to a restaurant every week she and her husband now hold more gatherings at home.TuesdayBreakfast: conjee, one egg, dumplings. Cost this year: 6 yuan (4.5)Lunch: rice, short rib, green vegetable, soup of corn, carrot and pig bones, tomato. Cost this year: 15 yuan per person (12)Dinner: With friends in a restaurant: beef, horsebeans, tofu, kidney beans, soup of kelp, soybean and pig bone, rice, water melon. Cost this year: 27/person (20)Total cost for daily food this year: 48 yuan (36.5)The price of the meat is more than twice as much as last year. But the main reason Shi Ying and her family buy less meat than before is because they wanted to avoid fat and unhealthy food. The family like soya products, they often eat tofu and other types of beans.WednesdayBreakfast: noodle with green vegetable, pancake, soya milk. Cost this year: 3 yuan (3)Lunch: fish, green vegetable, pork fried sweet bean, bread with butter, rice, kelp and pig bone soup. Cost this year: 20yuan/person (16)Dinner: beef, tofu, soy pork bone soup, rice. Cost this year: 25 yuan per person (20)Total cost for daily food last year: 48 yuan (39)Shi Ying and her family usually choose food according to whether it is healthy or not. But price is a factor. Since pork rose much more quickly than beef, they eat more beef. Apart from pig bones they don't buy pork products any more.ThursdayBreakfast: egg, congee, dumpling, rice noodle. Cost this year: 4 yuan/person (4)Lunch: duck, Chinese cabbage, kidney beans, rice and soup made from peanut, lotus root and pork. Cost this year: 22 yuan/person (15)Dinner: beef, tofu, grean vegetable, soy and pork bone soup, rice. Cost this year: 25 yuan (20)Cost for daily food this year 51 yuan (39)When Shi Ying was young, she felt very fortunate on the rare occasions when she could eat meat. But now, although she could afford to eat it every day she does not do so because of health concerns. She also worries about pesticide and fertilizer so she always chooses \"organic products\" even though they are more expensive.FridayBreakfast: bread, congee, egg fried rice noodle. Cost this year: 5 yuan (5)Lunch: beef fried potato, green vegetable, tofu, rice and pear. Cost this year: 18 (15)Dinner: tofu, beans, fish, rice. Cost this year: 20 yuan/person (19)Cost for daily food this year: 43 yuan (39)Even though the family have two incomes, Shi Ying feels prices are rising faster than she can handle. On weekly visits to the supermarket in the past, they would spend less than 300 yuan but now food buying trips cost them 400 to 500 yuan. Even the price of dog food increased by 30%.", "tags": ["Environment", "Food", "China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Food diary: Shenzhen, China"},{"date": "2008-05-19T12:38:48Z", "country": "china", "content": "China begins three days of mourning for the victims of last week's earthquake with many of the most moving tributes being made online.One of the survivors of the disaster was Tang Gouping, a science teacher and blogger from Beichuan middle school. A link to his last post seems to be redirected to a general memorial site for the victims. But his story is told here. This picture was taken at a sports day, held before the earthquake struck. Now 80% of the buildings have been destroyed in the area.Today's three minutes silence was marked, if not observed, by users on Twitter, the microblogging site where news of the quake and its aftermath spread so fast. The Shangaiist has a round up of memorial tweets. \"That was the loudest three minutes of silence I have ever heard,\" said one who like many was struck by the sound of sirens and car horns to mark the occasion.\"Seemingly everyone in Dalian beeped their horns and rang bell[s]\" said Alex Bowman. \"It is literally impossible not to be deeply, deeply moved,\" writes blogger Peking Duck. Everyone in his Beijing office stood silently when the clock struck 2.28pm, exactly a week after the quake. \"I will never make the mistake again of falling for the generalisation that the people here 'only think about themselves',\" he writes.\"China came to a virtual standstill,\" says blogger Zhongnanhai.\"This is the first time that the flag has been lowered for ordinary civilians in Chinese history, ever,\" writes Paul Denlinger on the China Vortex, who sees this as a key moment.He adds: \"For the first time, a Chinese government has embraced the idea that any human life, even that of ordinary human lives, has value. Actually, this is a very western concept, and is a very important step on the road to democracy.\"Green Bamboo describes how the silence was broken in his English class. \"One of the girls started crying and I could sense the emotional undercurrents in the class, especially afterwards. Then the class gradually got really noisy in a good way. Perhaps it was some sort of release for them after the serious start to the lesson.\"Banyue looks at how the Chinese press covered \"mourning day\". The post says: \"All Chinese newspapers nationwide all are printed only using black ink on the front pages today. Most big Chinese websites including Sina, Sohu, TIanya and Tudou have also removed color from their logos and home page.\" Image Thief says it was inappropriate of the government to temporarily black out the internet as a mark of respect. \"It is,\" the post says \"the kind of thing that would remind everyone that, 'Grandpa Wen' or not, the recent openness might have just been a brief honeymoon.\"Denlinger suggests such a view is a misreading of China. \"Sure, the government has an agenda and is spinning and exploiting this to make themselves look good. And in some ways, they are doing it in a clumsy way. But the government is now accountable to protect the lives of ordinary Chinese,\" he writes.Meanwhile, there still seems to be a lot of anger at the authorities whether its the response of the army, or corruption that allowed corners to be cut on school buildings. YouTube was one of the sites shut down for at least three minutes. Since then, state TV news footage of this noisy crowd in Beijing has been posted to the site.When was the last time such a large crowd shouted slogans in Beijing?, asks the Opposite End of China.", "tags": ["World news", "China earthquake", "China", "Asia Pacific", "Earthquakes"], "title": "China earthquake: mourning online"},{"date": "2008-05-14T09:47:58Z", "country": "china", "content": "Thousands of Chinese troops have been airlifted to the disaster zone to search for survivors of Monday's earthquakes, as the death toll continues to mount.Scroll down and refresh for news and reaction. Leave your comments and updates11amThe official death toll has risen to 14,866, according to a news flash on the state-owned Xinhua agency. It is unclear whether this includes the 7,700 confirmed dead in Yingxiu in Wenchuan county, at the epicentre of the quake. A further 18,645 are believed buried under rubble in Mianyang, 60 miles from the epicentre.11.25amState television CCTV broadcasts harrowing scenes from a primary school in Mianyang.11.40amThe Telegraph reports that almost 60,000 people are missing.The confusion about the number of dead and missing is illustrated by the latest update from Xinhua. It reads: \"Li Chengyun, vice-governor of Sichuan, said at a news conference that the death toll, based on incomplete figures, tallied 14,463 by 4pm on Wednesday. He said another 14,051 were missing, 25,788 buried in debris, and 64,746 injured.\"12.10pmNews of the disaster has been spreading rapidly on the microblogging site Twitter and its Chinese equivalents. News is coming via Twiddeo (a new one on me - it appears to be a video sharing/microblogging site). A clip here shows the problems caused by extraordinary landslides.12.25pmTwitter user Starry Forest says there has been an explosion at a chemical works in the city of Dujiangyan, according to a Google translation. 12.45pm100 parachute troops have landed in the cut-off Maoxian county, north-east of the epicentre, according to one of the latest updates from Xinhua, and 50 foreigners stranded in the Wolong panda park have been contacted. 12.55pmA collapsed bridge has left 100,000 people stranded in Sichuan's Beidu mountains, according to Sina.com.1.10pmHundreds of distressing photos of the earthquake and its aftermath have been posted to Flickr [warning: disturbing content].2.10amThe UK's ambassador to China, Sir William Ehrman, has praised China's fast and open response to the disaster. He told Sky News that as many as 100,000 troops have been deployed. 2.15pmJust as Sir William was praising China's openness, it was announced that the authorities have arrested two people for \"spreading quake-related rumours\" on the internet.One of them is accused of speculating that a department store had collapsed when it hadn't, the other is accused of passing off pictures of crowds running to see the Olympic flame as people fleeing the quake. \"Citizens should support the disaster relief work rather than create and spread rumors,\" ordered Liu Kun from Chongqing Public Security Bureau.2.30pmThere are 70,000 people missing in Wenchuan, Fanfou users 6 Health reports.2.50pm2,000 troops have been sent to plug holes in a dam above Dujiangyan, where 500,000 live.2.55pmEmergency services should continue to look for survivors in the rubble for weeks, according to UK Fire Service Search and Rescue. It also criticises the media for describing the rescue of survivors as \"miraculous\". In a briefing on Earthquake Rescue it says: \"To the trained eye of firefighters and members of urban search and rescue teams, it should be assumed (until proven otherwise) that many collapsed buildings will be honeycombed with void spaces.It adds: \"Emergency officials should be planning to pull live victims from the rubble up to three weeks after catastrophic earthquakes, and they should be prepared to sustain non-stop search and rescue operations until all hope of locating viable victims has passed. The public has the right to expect this level of response to devastating quakes.\"3.30pmTheres are extraordinary before and after pictures of Bei-chuan on this post on Global Voices.3.35pm The Chinese authorities are clearly anxious to impress the foreign media in their response to the earthquake, judging by this clip from the state broadcaster CCTV. For more information on the earthquake, including audio reports, pictures, video and an interactive guide, go here", "tags": ["World news", "Earthquakes"], "title": "China earthquake: disaster response"},{"date": "2008-05-11T23:04:18Z", "country": "china", "content": "The death toll from the most deadly earthquake to hit China in more than three decades today reached nearly 10,000 in Sichuan province alone, the state-run Xinhua news agency reported.Worst hit was Sichuan province's Beichuan county, where a further 10,000 were feared injured and 80% of the buildings were flattened, including eight schools and one hospital.As reports trickled in from areas that had been cut off since the earthquake hit this morning, the death toll is expected to rise.There are fears over some 900 students buried in a secondary school in the city of Dujiangyan, also in Beichuan county. Photos posted on the internet revealed arms and a torso sticking out of the wreckage of the school as dozens of people scrambled to free the students using small mechanical winches or their bare hands.Xinhua news agency reported that 50 bodies had been recovered from the debris, but did not say whether there were survivors.Dale Rutstein of Unicef China, said Sichuan was one of the poorest provinces in China, which would add to the scale of the disaster.\"There are a lot of people living in marginal areas that are difficult to get to and a lot of the buildings in those areas are substandard and could collapse very quickly,\" he said. The 7.8-magnitude quake struck 57 miles north-west of Chengdu, the capital of Sichuan. Tremors from the quake, which struck at 2.28pm (6.28am BST), were felt as far away as Thailand and Vietnam. \"We felt continuous shaking for about two or three minutes. All the people in our office are rushing downstairs. We're still feeling slight tremblings,\" said an office worker in Chengdu.The US Geological Survey said the quake was centred 6 miles below the Earth's surface.In Sichuan, phone lines were cut and a website for the Aba prefecture, which includes Beichuan county, said the quake had severed several major highways in the region and communications were down in 11 counties.A chemical plant collapsed in Shifang city, to the south-east of the epicentre, burying hundreds of people and sending more than 80 tonnes of toxic liquid ammonia leaking from the site, state media reported.The prime minister, Wen Jiabao, had rushed to the area and the president, Hu Jintao, ordered an \"all-out\" rescue effort, Xinhua reported.Rescue teams were trying make contact with cut-off areas. Thousands of army troops and paramilitary People's Armed Police were taking medical supplies to the region, state television said.Wen appealed for people to rally together. \"This is an especially challenging task,\" he said, reading from a statement. \"In the face of the disaster, what's most important is calmness, confidence, courage and powerful command.\"The quake is the worst to hit China in 32 years since the 1976 Tangshan earthquake in north-eastern China which claimed up to 300,000 lives.There was no visible damage in Beijing, about 930 miles away, but tremors were felt. The showpiece Bird's Nest Olympic stadium, which is built to withstand a 8.0 quake was unscathed, a spokesman for the Olympic organising committee said.The region most severely affected is largely populated by Han Chinese but has sizeable Qiang and Tibetan populations. Wenchuan county, the epicentre of the quake, according to Sichuan seismologists, is also home to the Wolon nature reserve, a centre for research on giant pandas.The Sichuan seismology bureau reported 313 aftershocks has prompted many residents, including hospital patients, to remain outdoors.Wyndham Jamesof Save the Children said the timing of the earthquake would contribute to higher fatalities.\"The earthquake was about 2.30pm and is a time when most children are in school. There are also other institutions like orphanages and hospitals that could be affected,\" he said, adding that the official death toll was a conservative estimate.State television has been broadcasting advice for those trapped in the earthquake, telling people to \"keep calm and conserve energy\". Survivors have been told to \"seek water and food, and wait patiently for rescue\".", "tags": ["China earthquake", "China", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Earthquakes"], "title": "China earthquake kills thousands"},{"date": "2008-06-06T23:11:12Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has long inspired interest among graduates looking to broaden their horizons while adding to their CVs. The vast landscape, mystique and culture exceeds the nation's borders, but for all its thousands of years of history, it is the current expectations of the nation which is now capturing the imagination of many.\"I graduated in French and German from Oxford University in 2003, but realised that the bigger opportunities actually lay eastwards,\" says Daniel Nivern, 27-year-old director and founder of China Recruitment, an organisation that he set up two years ago to bring UK workers to China, linking them with Chinese companies and businesses that have a need for English speakers.Being based in China is not without its advantages. \"Our costs are massively lower in Beijing than in London. This includes everything - office space, travel, salaries, stationary, phone lines. In fact, you can easily get carried away and end up spending money carelessly,\" Nivern says.The first time he touched down in China he had no knowledge of the language and no experience of Asia. Yet you can sense that his optimism helped him make it work in a country that shares so little with his own culture. But then again, this is his job.\"Chinese is a great language to learn and it's surprisingly easy to start communicating after a couple of weeks. The grammar is less difficult than that of most European languages,\" he says, but does admit that he still struggles with getting the complex different tones in the language.Now his company helps to bring UK graduates to China. He set up his company in Beijing with just \u00a31,000 of start-up money and now employs six full-time British and Chinese staff in the company's office in Beijing, after hitting the business networking schemes around the city.\"The first six months were tough. It took time before things started to take shape,\" Nivern says. But it seems for those setting up business in China, the most valuable currency is local knowledge and an understanding of the culture.\"It is a land of opportunity, says Luke Hambleton, a 25-year-old graduate who studied Chinese and sinology at the School of Oriental and African Studies in London. He started out as a teacher and went on to co-found a consultancy in Beijing which advises UK business on how to deal with business in China. He writes papers on sectors and the culture of Chinese business.\"One of the biggest mistakes that people in the UK make about China is they misunderstand people's attitudes towards the communist state. It is common to see and hear the state and politics satirized and mocked in a way that many people in the UK would simply assume was unthinkable,\" Hambleton says.But it is necessary to recognise the differences between the west and China, as Rebecca Robinson, a 24-year-old graduate, who studied Chinese and history at the University of Leeds realised. She first worked as a teacher in Liuzhou, in Guangxi province in the south of China before she moved on to work for China Recruitment as a programme organiser, where she liaises with British applicants and her counterparts in Beijing and around the country.\"In China, you sometimes need to be patient and understand that things are more difficult,\" Robinson says. Hambleton agrees: \"Sometimes when drawing up and discussing a contract with your Chinese business partner, it is quite common for certain key points to be hurried and renegotiated at the last minute when everything appeared to be signed and sealed. Many barriers such as language and cultural attitudes can really hinder deals.\"The Chinese often talk of the post-1980 generation - those entering the workforce at the same time as China itself is developing economically. They have the chance to define themselves and their own identity. This is the China of the new and one of an entrepreneurial spirit, they say.\"The Chinese are extremely pragmatic and for all the notions of a communist society, they have a very capitalist spirit. Building close relationships is absolutely key and this takes time, effort, patience and understanding,\" Nivern says. \"When I started researching working opportunities in China, I found that there were very few companies that were able to offer any assistance and it was really difficult to penetrate a largely unknown country. I knew that China was going to be very different.\"The Olympic Games in August offers challenges and opportunities of its own, especially within Beijing - opportunities that Nivern has, like the Chinese, been building up to. \"This is a momentous moment for China,\" he says. \"It offers the Chinese two weeks when the whole world will be focused on them, and after being closed to the world for so many years, believe me, they are ready to make an impression.\"He is quick to acknowledge that the recent earthquake and flooding disasters may make bringing graduates to China during August more difficult. But he knows that the Olympics will give an insight into modern-day China, a country that the rest of the world in reality knows little about.\"Olympic fever is everywhere. There are billboards on street corners, clocks counting down, new buildings being erected all over the place, a new airport terminal with a new express train to the city, and two new lines of the subway,\" Nivern says. \"I made a calculated decision to prioritise Mandarin and understand Chinese culture rather than seek a job using my European language skills. This was based on the promise and the potential of China.\"For Nivern and anyone he has placed anywhere in China, they hope that when the Games come, they will have front-row seats as history unfolds.", "tags": ["Graduate careers", "Work & careers", "Education", "Forums", "Graduate"], "title": "Danny Vincent on the English graduates heading to China"},{"date": "2008-06-01T15:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Around 320,000 Britons visited China in 2007. One of the world's great cultures has finally embarked on a path towards prosperity. China is a much more comfortable and welcoming place than it has ever been. Last year, Tony Blair told us that because of economic changes and rising prosperity, the movement towards democracy in China is \"unstoppable.\"Everything from economic reforms to rising wealth levels, a growing and modern middle class (currently around 100-200 million people) behaving and acting like we do in Britain, and even granting Beijing the Olympics was meant to hasten the arrival of democracy in China. But since the Tiananmen Square protests in 1989, China is seemingly further away (pdf) from democracy.What happened? After all, the circumstances seem ripe for democratisation.There is apparently a strong correlation between free and open markets, and free societies. Prior to reforms in 1978, China's private sector produced less than 1% of output. Today Shanghai feels like a shining, new, cosmopolitan city. There are now 30 million private businesses in China producing over 70% of its national output.Yet political reform has stalled over the past decade. Importantly, the overwhelming majority of China's elites - entrepreneurs, professionals, intellectuals, students, journalists, and so on - have lost interest in political reform. When pressed, most express support for the political status quo and are even critical of the 1989 Tiananmen protests.In fact, these elites are the fastest-growing groups wanting to become members of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP). Almost a quarter of the 70 million party members are professionals and skilled workers. One third are college students, and another third are businesspeople. These elites, who were meant to lead the push toward democratisation, have become the party's newest and strongest supporters.The common mistake made in the west is to assume that while China's society and economy is rapidly changing, its authoritarian political institutions remain static. Those too quick to proclaim democracy on the horizon in China have underestimated the determination, capacity, and resourcefulness of the regime in its efforts to remain in power.Authoritarian regimes cannot afford to be made irrelevant by other forces. To preserve its economic relevance, the Chinese regime has gone to extensive efforts to maintain control of the major levers of economic power. This control is the heart of an economic structure that entrenches the role and position of party members in Chinese economy and society. Around a dozen key segments of the economy - including banking, construction, infrastructure, media, and telecommunications - are dominated by state-owned enterprises (SOEs). The state still owns a majority of the country's fixed assets and receives over two-thirds of the country's capital.The CCP has conducted a tireless and largely successful campaign to co-opt, and in many respects create, the rising educated and economic classes. By remaining the key economic player as well as overseeing an extensive system of awards, promotions, and regulation, the government continues to control and dispense a dominant share of the most valued economic, professional, and intellectual opportunities.This means that entrepreneurs are better off doing business as a \"partner\" of the state. Intellectuals and academics favoured by officials are granted generous research grants, are fast tracked into senior positions, and given personal perks. Journalists have little choice but to work for media outlets that are still subsidiaries of party organs. These are the contented middle classes emerging in China today. Far from being an independent class, why would these middle classes want to change toward a more democratic system when it could lead to their own dispossession?The CCP's hold on power remains vulnerable to a profound economic shock, such as a significant downturn in economic growth. This would impede the regime's continued capacity to co-opt and appease. Regardless, a Chinese middle class that looks and acts the same as we do in the west might nevertheless think very differently when it comes to democracy and the future of the country.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Why China doesn't break"},{"date": "2008-05-29T11:30:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "In March, as the uprising started in Tibet, I made my first visit to China. I was there to meet writers and translators, to try to understand what are euphemistically called the \"challenges\" facing my Chinese counterparts.As the crisis escalated, the gap between the accounts given by state media and the stories I was reading on the internet became ever greater. I got used to the television screen going blank every time CNN or the BBC played footage of the torch relay. I used proxies to view sites (including the Guardian) that were blocked by the authorities, and told myself that I was getting a feel for the absurdities of Chinese propaganda - the smiling Han children standing behind the reporter in Lhasa as he described how they'd been traumatised by the Tibetan rioters, the sinister fulminations against the Dalai Lama, the list of client states produced as evidence of \"global support\" for the Chinese crackdown.What I couldn't understand was the strength of patriotic feeling among ordinary Chinese people - not just those living behind the great firewall, whose access to information was heavily controlled, but international Chinese people living in places where they had every opportunity to learn about the repression, the executions, the torture. They were turning out in huge numbers to support their government, and to decry the anti-Chinese bias of the western news media. Why?I found an answer at the Wu Hou shrine in Chengdu, the city nearest the epicentre of the recent Sichuan earthquake. The shrine is an institution which has no exact parallel in the west, dedicated not to a supernatural deity or an unworldly saint, but to that most secular of things, an administrator. Zhuge Liang (AD181-234) was the prime minister of the Shu Han kingdom, a military strategist, scholar and statesman, whose tactical wisdom has become proverbial. Also known as Wu Hou (Marquis Wu) he's an important character in the Romance of the Three Kingdoms, one of the great Chinese classical novels.Just outside the shrine gate is Chengdu's Tibetan quarter, which at the time of my visit was locked down by riot police. Thousands of uniformed officers were patrolling the area, driving past the shops selling robes and other monastic paraphernalia, watched by sullen locals. Inside the tranquil precinct of the shrine hung inscriptions lauding Wu's many virtues - his insight, his bravery, his diligence, his inventiveness. However, I was struck that he was praised above all for the unity he brought to his people during a period of bloodshed and political turbulence. Again and again I was faced with calligraphic evidence, both ancient and modern, of a deepseated reverence for unity, harmony and territorial integrity. The fear of discord, evident in all cultures, is given cosmological importance in China. The shrine was a monument to the maintenance of political order in times of chaos.On another day, I attended a seminar where I listened to an argument between Howard Goldblatt, one of the most important translators of contemporary Chinese literature, and Jiang Rong, author of Wolf Totem, a hugely successful novel based on the author's experiences in Inner Mongolia, where he was sent during the cultural revolution. The novel describes the relationship between the Mongol herders and Han Chinese settlers who are disrupting the traditional ecology of their homeland. In its opening paragraph, a Mongol and a Han settler are in conversation. Jiang complained that in his version of this dialogue, Goldblatt had translated \"Han\" simply as \"Chinese\". This surely implied that the Mongols were not properly Chinese, or that China was in some sense a Han hegemony. Several members of the audience took umbrage at this, detecting sinister political insinuations. Did the westerner wish to imply that China had no legitimate right to the territory of its ethnic minorities? Was this yet another attack on national unity?By now over three million people have watched a bombastic youtube film called \"Why Tibet was, is and always will be part of China\" . Made by a 22-year-old Chinese Canadian student, it's a good document of Chinese ultra-nationalist sentiment, which sees in western support for Tibetan autonomy, and for human rights more generally, an attempt to undermine the harmony, integrity and unity of China - what in the jargon of the \"war on terror\" has become known as an \"existential threat\". Against this must be set voices like that of the novelist Ma Jian, whose recently published Beijing Coma looks set to become the definitive fictional account of the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989. Ma's unsentimental short stories about Tibet, and his profound disgust with the hypocrisy and cruelty he sees at the heart of the Chinese system have made him persona non grata in his home country, where much of his writing is banned.The spectrum of Chinese opinion is broad, and Western observers would do well to pay closer attention to its diversity. Above all we must accept the profound disconnection between international opinion, which sees respect for human rights as the foundation for a functional society, and that of Chinese nationalists, who view all appeals to human rights as a threat to sovereignty.It's sadly clear that in the era of \"humanitarian intervention\", there is some justification for this nervousness, as the human rights agenda has been degraded by its use as rhetorical support for US and UK foreign policy aims. I found out in Chengdu that it's not good enough to dismiss Chinese popular nationalism as the result of clever propaganda, let alone brainwashing. Nor can we see human rights as a self-evident set of truths, to which everyone would uncritically assent, were they allowed to do so by their governments. I believe it's vital to carry on making the case for human rights and freedom of expression as forcefully as possible in this Olympic year, but my visit to China showed me that in order to make that case, we need a more sophisticated dialogue, based on greater understanding of Chinese culture and history.\u2022 Hari Kunzru will chair Chinese Whispers, an event with Ma Jian, Diane Wei Liang and Liu Hong Cannon at 7pm on June 3 at the Guardian Newsroom, 60 Farringdon Road, London, EC1R 3GA.", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Hari Kunzru", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China: handle with care"},{"date": "2008-05-30T07:26:49Z", "country": "china", "content": "Shi Ying is a member of China's urban middle class. Her parents were workers in Hangzhou and she spent time during the Cultural Revolution in the countryside. She is now a magazine publisher in Shenzhen, where she lives with her husband and three dogs. Her daughter works in Beijing.MondayBreakfast: congee, bread and one egg. Cost this year: 3 yuan per person (cost last year: 2.5 yuan)Lunch: rice, cabbage, kidney bean, chicken paw, yoghurt. Cost 14 yuan/person (12 yuan) Dinner: pawpaw with bird-nest, steak, kidney bean, fried pork, pumpkin leaves, fish, cucumber, seedcake. Cost this year: 380 per person (280 yuan)Total cost for daily food this year: 397 yuan (294.5 yuan)Shi Ying often eats out with friends and relatives, they usually spent 50 to 100 yuan per person. But sometimes when they have meals with important guests they spend more. She also feels the pressure of price rises so instead of going to a restaurant every week she and her husband now hold more gatherings at home.TuesdayBreakfast: conjee, one egg, dumplings. Cost this year: 6 yuan (4.5)Lunch: rice, short rib, green vegetable, soup of corn, carrot and pig bones, tomato. Cost this year: 15 yuan per person (12)Dinner: With friends in a restaurant: beef, horsebeans, tofu, kidney beans, soup of kelp, soybean and pig bone, rice, water melon. Cost this year: 27/person (20)Total cost for daily food this year: 48 yuan (36.5)The price of the meat is more than twice as much as last year. But the main reason Shi Ying and her family buy less meat than before is because they wanted to avoid fat and unhealthy food. The family like soya products, they often eat tofu and other types of beans.WednesdayBreakfast: noodle with green vegetable, pancake, soya milk. Cost this year: 3 yuan (3)Lunch: fish, green vegetable, pork fried sweet bean, bread with butter, rice, kelp and pig bone soup. Cost this year: 20yuan/person (16)Dinner: beef, tofu, soy pork bone soup, rice. Cost this year: 25 yuan per person (20)Total cost for daily food last year: 48 yuan (39)Shi Ying and her family usually choose food according to whether it is healthy or not. But price is a factor. Since pork rose much more quickly than beef, they eat more beef. Apart from pig bones they don't buy pork products any more.ThursdayBreakfast: egg, congee, dumpling, rice noodle. Cost this year: 4 yuan/person (4)Lunch: duck, Chinese cabbage, kidney beans, rice and soup made from peanut, lotus root and pork. Cost this year: 22 yuan/person (15)Dinner: beef, tofu, grean vegetable, soy and pork bone soup, rice. Cost this year: 25 yuan (20)Cost for daily food this year 51 yuan (39)When Shi Ying was young, she felt very fortunate on the rare occasions when she could eat meat. But now, although she could afford to eat it every day she does not do so because of health concerns. She also worries about pesticide and fertilizer so she always chooses \"organic products\" even though they are more expensive.FridayBreakfast: bread, congee, egg fried rice noodle. Cost this year: 5 yuan (5)Lunch: beef fried potato, green vegetable, tofu, rice and pear. Cost this year: 18 (15)Dinner: tofu, beans, fish, rice. Cost this year: 20 yuan/person (19)Cost for daily food this year: 43 yuan (39)Even though the family have two incomes, Shi Ying feels prices are rising faster than she can handle. On weekly visits to the supermarket in the past, they would spend less than 300 yuan but now food buying trips cost them 400 to 500 yuan. Even the price of dog food increased by 30%.", "tags": ["Environment", "Food", "China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Food diary: Shenzhen, China"},{"date": "2008-05-19T12:38:48Z", "country": "china", "content": "China begins three days of mourning for the victims of last week's earthquake with many of the most moving tributes being made online.One of the survivors of the disaster was Tang Gouping, a science teacher and blogger from Beichuan middle school. A link to his last post seems to be redirected to a general memorial site for the victims. But his story is told here. This picture was taken at a sports day, held before the earthquake struck. Now 80% of the buildings have been destroyed in the area.Today's three minutes silence was marked, if not observed, by users on Twitter, the microblogging site where news of the quake and its aftermath spread so fast. The Shangaiist has a round up of memorial tweets. \"That was the loudest three minutes of silence I have ever heard,\" said one who like many was struck by the sound of sirens and car horns to mark the occasion.\"Seemingly everyone in Dalian beeped their horns and rang bell[s]\" said Alex Bowman. \"It is literally impossible not to be deeply, deeply moved,\" writes blogger Peking Duck. Everyone in his Beijing office stood silently when the clock struck 2.28pm, exactly a week after the quake. \"I will never make the mistake again of falling for the generalisation that the people here 'only think about themselves',\" he writes.\"China came to a virtual standstill,\" says blogger Zhongnanhai.\"This is the first time that the flag has been lowered for ordinary civilians in Chinese history, ever,\" writes Paul Denlinger on the China Vortex, who sees this as a key moment.He adds: \"For the first time, a Chinese government has embraced the idea that any human life, even that of ordinary human lives, has value. Actually, this is a very western concept, and is a very important step on the road to democracy.\"Green Bamboo describes how the silence was broken in his English class. \"One of the girls started crying and I could sense the emotional undercurrents in the class, especially afterwards. Then the class gradually got really noisy in a good way. Perhaps it was some sort of release for them after the serious start to the lesson.\"Banyue looks at how the Chinese press covered \"mourning day\". The post says: \"All Chinese newspapers nationwide all are printed only using black ink on the front pages today. Most big Chinese websites including Sina, Sohu, TIanya and Tudou have also removed color from their logos and home page.\" Image Thief says it was inappropriate of the government to temporarily black out the internet as a mark of respect. \"It is,\" the post says \"the kind of thing that would remind everyone that, 'Grandpa Wen' or not, the recent openness might have just been a brief honeymoon.\"Denlinger suggests such a view is a misreading of China. \"Sure, the government has an agenda and is spinning and exploiting this to make themselves look good. And in some ways, they are doing it in a clumsy way. But the government is now accountable to protect the lives of ordinary Chinese,\" he writes.Meanwhile, there still seems to be a lot of anger at the authorities whether its the response of the army, or corruption that allowed corners to be cut on school buildings. YouTube was one of the sites shut down for at least three minutes. Since then, state TV news footage of this noisy crowd in Beijing has been posted to the site.When was the last time such a large crowd shouted slogans in Beijing?, asks the Opposite End of China.", "tags": ["World news", "China earthquake", "China", "Asia Pacific", "Earthquakes"], "title": "China earthquake: mourning online"},{"date": "2008-05-14T09:47:58Z", "country": "china", "content": "Thousands of Chinese troops have been airlifted to the disaster zone to search for survivors of Monday's earthquakes, as the death toll continues to mount.Scroll down and refresh for news and reaction. Leave your comments and updates11amThe official death toll has risen to 14,866, according to a news flash on the state-owned Xinhua agency. It is unclear whether this includes the 7,700 confirmed dead in Yingxiu in Wenchuan county, at the epicentre of the quake. A further 18,645 are believed buried under rubble in Mianyang, 60 miles from the epicentre.11.25amState television CCTV broadcasts harrowing scenes from a primary school in Mianyang.11.40amThe Telegraph reports that almost 60,000 people are missing.The confusion about the number of dead and missing is illustrated by the latest update from Xinhua. It reads: \"Li Chengyun, vice-governor of Sichuan, said at a news conference that the death toll, based on incomplete figures, tallied 14,463 by 4pm on Wednesday. He said another 14,051 were missing, 25,788 buried in debris, and 64,746 injured.\"12.10pmNews of the disaster has been spreading rapidly on the microblogging site Twitter and its Chinese equivalents. News is coming via Twiddeo (a new one on me - it appears to be a video sharing/microblogging site). A clip here shows the problems caused by extraordinary landslides.12.25pmTwitter user Starry Forest says there has been an explosion at a chemical works in the city of Dujiangyan, according to a Google translation. 12.45pm100 parachute troops have landed in the cut-off Maoxian county, north-east of the epicentre, according to one of the latest updates from Xinhua, and 50 foreigners stranded in the Wolong panda park have been contacted. 12.55pmA collapsed bridge has left 100,000 people stranded in Sichuan's Beidu mountains, according to Sina.com.1.10pmHundreds of distressing photos of the earthquake and its aftermath have been posted to Flickr [warning: disturbing content].2.10amThe UK's ambassador to China, Sir William Ehrman, has praised China's fast and open response to the disaster. He told Sky News that as many as 100,000 troops have been deployed. 2.15pmJust as Sir William was praising China's openness, it was announced that the authorities have arrested two people for \"spreading quake-related rumours\" on the internet.One of them is accused of speculating that a department store had collapsed when it hadn't, the other is accused of passing off pictures of crowds running to see the Olympic flame as people fleeing the quake. \"Citizens should support the disaster relief work rather than create and spread rumors,\" ordered Liu Kun from Chongqing Public Security Bureau.2.30pmThere are 70,000 people missing in Wenchuan, Fanfou users 6 Health reports.2.50pm2,000 troops have been sent to plug holes in a dam above Dujiangyan, where 500,000 live.2.55pmEmergency services should continue to look for survivors in the rubble for weeks, according to UK Fire Service Search and Rescue. It also criticises the media for describing the rescue of survivors as \"miraculous\". In a briefing on Earthquake Rescue it says: \"To the trained eye of firefighters and members of urban search and rescue teams, it should be assumed (until proven otherwise) that many collapsed buildings will be honeycombed with void spaces.It adds: \"Emergency officials should be planning to pull live victims from the rubble up to three weeks after catastrophic earthquakes, and they should be prepared to sustain non-stop search and rescue operations until all hope of locating viable victims has passed. The public has the right to expect this level of response to devastating quakes.\"3.30pmTheres are extraordinary before and after pictures of Bei-chuan on this post on Global Voices.3.35pm The Chinese authorities are clearly anxious to impress the foreign media in their response to the earthquake, judging by this clip from the state broadcaster CCTV. For more information on the earthquake, including audio reports, pictures, video and an interactive guide, go here", "tags": ["World news", "Earthquakes"], "title": "China earthquake: disaster response"},{"date": "2008-05-11T23:04:18Z", "country": "china", "content": "The death toll from the most deadly earthquake to hit China in more than three decades today reached nearly 10,000 in Sichuan province alone, the state-run Xinhua news agency reported.Worst hit was Sichuan province's Beichuan county, where a further 10,000 were feared injured and 80% of the buildings were flattened, including eight schools and one hospital.As reports trickled in from areas that had been cut off since the earthquake hit this morning, the death toll is expected to rise.There are fears over some 900 students buried in a secondary school in the city of Dujiangyan, also in Beichuan county. Photos posted on the internet revealed arms and a torso sticking out of the wreckage of the school as dozens of people scrambled to free the students using small mechanical winches or their bare hands.Xinhua news agency reported that 50 bodies had been recovered from the debris, but did not say whether there were survivors.Dale Rutstein of Unicef China, said Sichuan was one of the poorest provinces in China, which would add to the scale of the disaster.\"There are a lot of people living in marginal areas that are difficult to get to and a lot of the buildings in those areas are substandard and could collapse very quickly,\" he said. The 7.8-magnitude quake struck 57 miles north-west of Chengdu, the capital of Sichuan. Tremors from the quake, which struck at 2.28pm (6.28am BST), were felt as far away as Thailand and Vietnam. \"We felt continuous shaking for about two or three minutes. All the people in our office are rushing downstairs. We're still feeling slight tremblings,\" said an office worker in Chengdu.The US Geological Survey said the quake was centred 6 miles below the Earth's surface.In Sichuan, phone lines were cut and a website for the Aba prefecture, which includes Beichuan county, said the quake had severed several major highways in the region and communications were down in 11 counties.A chemical plant collapsed in Shifang city, to the south-east of the epicentre, burying hundreds of people and sending more than 80 tonnes of toxic liquid ammonia leaking from the site, state media reported.The prime minister, Wen Jiabao, had rushed to the area and the president, Hu Jintao, ordered an \"all-out\" rescue effort, Xinhua reported.Rescue teams were trying make contact with cut-off areas. Thousands of army troops and paramilitary People's Armed Police were taking medical supplies to the region, state television said.Wen appealed for people to rally together. \"This is an especially challenging task,\" he said, reading from a statement. \"In the face of the disaster, what's most important is calmness, confidence, courage and powerful command.\"The quake is the worst to hit China in 32 years since the 1976 Tangshan earthquake in north-eastern China which claimed up to 300,000 lives.There was no visible damage in Beijing, about 930 miles away, but tremors were felt. The showpiece Bird's Nest Olympic stadium, which is built to withstand a 8.0 quake was unscathed, a spokesman for the Olympic organising committee said.The region most severely affected is largely populated by Han Chinese but has sizeable Qiang and Tibetan populations. Wenchuan county, the epicentre of the quake, according to Sichuan seismologists, is also home to the Wolon nature reserve, a centre for research on giant pandas.The Sichuan seismology bureau reported 313 aftershocks has prompted many residents, including hospital patients, to remain outdoors.Wyndham Jamesof Save the Children said the timing of the earthquake would contribute to higher fatalities.\"The earthquake was about 2.30pm and is a time when most children are in school. There are also other institutions like orphanages and hospitals that could be affected,\" he said, adding that the official death toll was a conservative estimate.State television has been broadcasting advice for those trapped in the earthquake, telling people to \"keep calm and conserve energy\". Survivors have been told to \"seek water and food, and wait patiently for rescue\".", "tags": ["China earthquake", "China", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Earthquakes"], "title": "China earthquake kills thousands"},{"date": "2008-05-12T12:03:43Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has been criticised in the past for keeping a news lid on natural disasters as they can have significant political implications. But times have changed and the powerful earthquake that struck Sichuan province in central China today received prominent coverage on Xinhua, the official state news agency.Wenchuan, an area with more than 110,000 people in the south-east part of the Tibetan-Qiang autonomous prefecture of Aba, is likely to be badly hit. Wenchuan also happens to be home to the Wolong nature reserve, China's leading research and breeding base for endangered giant pandas.Interestingly, news of the quake came not from the news agencies but apparently from Twitter, a networking service that allows people to communicate through the exchange of quick, frequent messages. Shanghaiist has good rolling coverage that includes video.The 7.8-magnitude quake, coming just three months before the Olympic games in Beijing, is exactly what the authorities had feared. Only in January, President Hu Jintao and the prime minister, Wen Jiabao, called for an improvement in earthquake contingency measures ahead of the games, which they hope to use to showcase China's international standing.Today's quake is the second major natural disaster to strike Asia in the space of a few weeks. Burma is grappling with the devastating aftermath of cyclone Nargis, where the death toll has been put at 100,000 by the UN. China has been coming under pressure from the west to persuade Burma to allow greater access by international relief agencies to hard-hit areas. China's attention will inevitably turn to its own natural disaster, which does not bode well for Burma.", "tags": ["China earthquake", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "China", "World news", "Environment", "Asia Pacific", "Earthquakes"], "title": "Earthquake hits China headlines"},{"date": "2008-07-28T13:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "\"What is not clear,\" Simon Jenkins wrote last Friday of the Beijing Olympics, \"is who will win, China or its critics\".We all know what Simon Jenkins means: that China's Communist party leadership is winning the short-term race to host the Olympics on its own terms, but it may face trouble running the marathon \u2013 the longer-term struggle. I broadly agree with this analysis.But when we use the word \"China\" to refer to the small group of party leaders who wield power, then we play the Communist party's game. Saying \"China\" when what we mean is actually the tiny group of men who run the country is a shorthand that we've all used, myself included. Before you roll your eyes and accuse me of being picky, I would argue that it is extremely important now, in 2008, to make this distinction.It is the Communist party which has, very cleverly, for decades, worked to conflate the greater good, patriotism, nationalism and one-party rule. That is why western media coverage is judged both inside and outside China to be either \"pro-\" or \"anti-\" China, when in many cases the western media is simply telling it how it is, or telling it as well as it can, given the limits on access. Is Simon Jenkins in fact using the Communist party's own vocabulary when he describes recent western press coverage of China as \"hostile\"?More importantly, this use of an all-inclusive \"China\" is the most potent method of control that the leadership has over its own people. To raise questions about one-party rule \u2013 indeed to raise questions about pretty much anything \u2013 is to be \"anti-China\", a dissident.This year, China's Communist party has faced a perfect storm of stresses. Natural disasters have stretched relief capabilities to their limits, first in the snowstorms at lunar new year, and then in the devastating earthquake. Rioting by Tibetans against Han Chinese has laid bare one of the most sensitive areas of policymaking, both internally and in relations with the west. The Olympic games, which were intended to be China's moment of glory, are threatening to go sour. Grievances about price rises and official corruption have fed protests and, in some cases, riots in the provinces.Journalists cannot report, because they do not know, what effect this has had on the Communist party leadership, which shows a publicly united front. But it would be naive to think that everything is as harmonious in private. For those skilled in the science of China-watching there are tiny hints that might be cracks in the party response to these crises. China's modern political history shows periods of apparent stability disrupted by violent political rows at the top.I have lived in China for about 15 years on and off since I first went there in 1981. I was in Beijing until the end of June this year (and will return there in August). My sense, as I spoke to people about the things that were happening, was that there were far greater differences of opinion than at any time since the demonstrations and massacre of 1989. I encountered angry anti-western sentiment, complaints that the west had not given enough aid to earthquake victims, complaints that western leaders who might boycott the opening ceremony of the Olympics were maliciously spoiling China's moment in the sun.I also encountered ordinary people \u2013 not people who would describe themselves as dissidents \u2013 who were furious with their leadership, who described as \"stupid\" their paranoia about Olympic security. (In Beijing, a security threat might include someone wearing a \"Free Tibet\" T-shirt). I have heard people say, \"Tibet has nothing to do with me, why should I care?\". I have heard people rail against propaganda. I have met taxi drivers who get their news from the internet and who can discuss intelligently the differences between Tony Blair and Gordon Brown. In the past, the party exerted control through state-run work units which dispensed healthcare and education as well as birth control and wages. People's lives were absorbed into the sphere of party control. That has largely vanished. The carrot and the stick have gone, people's economic lives are basically their own, and party rule is now largely exerted through a combination of propaganda and damage limitation.My point is simply that we should be mindful now, more than ever, how we think and write about China. We must distinguish China the nation from the Communist party leadership which dictates policy. We must remember at all times that the Communist party is rarely united and that stability is often an illusion. And most of all we should remember that the vast variation in opinion among the ordinary people who make up China does not make up a monolithic will. The struggle, as it emerges, will not be between \"China\" and \"its critics\" \u2013 it will be the debate inside China itself.", "tags": ["China", "Foreign policy", "Olympics 2008", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Olympics"], "title": "Catherine Sampson: The Communist leadership is not 'China'"},{"date": "2008-07-28T13:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "\"What is not clear,\" Simon Jenkins wrote last Friday of the Beijing Olympics, \"is who will win, China or its critics\".We all know what Simon Jenkins means: that China's Communist party leadership is winning the short-term race to host the Olympics on its own terms, but it may face trouble running the marathon \u2013 the longer-term struggle. I broadly agree with this analysis.But when we use the word \"China\" to refer to the small group of party leaders who wield power, then we play the Communist party's game. Saying \"China\" when what we mean is actually the tiny group of men who run the country is a shorthand that we've all used, myself included. Before you roll your eyes and accuse me of being picky, I would argue that it is extremely important now, in 2008, to make this distinction.It is the Communist party which has, very cleverly, for decades, worked to conflate the greater good, patriotism, nationalism and one-party rule. That is why western media coverage is judged both inside and outside China to be either \"pro-\" or \"anti-\" China, when in many cases the western media is simply telling it how it is, or telling it as well as it can, given the limits on access. Is Simon Jenkins in fact using the Communist party's own vocabulary when he describes recent western press coverage of China as \"hostile\"?More importantly, this use of an all-inclusive \"China\" is the most potent method of control that the leadership has over its own people. To raise questions about one-party rule \u2013 indeed to raise questions about pretty much anything \u2013 is to be \"anti-China\", a dissident.This year, China's Communist party has faced a perfect storm of stresses. Natural disasters have stretched relief capabilities to their limits, first in the snowstorms at lunar new year, and then in the devastating earthquake. Rioting by Tibetans against Han Chinese has laid bare one of the most sensitive areas of policymaking, both internally and in relations with the west. The Olympic games, which were intended to be China's moment of glory, are threatening to go sour. Grievances about price rises and official corruption have fed protests and, in some cases, riots in the provinces.Journalists cannot report, because they do not know, what effect this has had on the Communist party leadership, which shows a publicly united front. But it would be naive to think that everything is as harmonious in private. For those skilled in the science of China-watching there are tiny hints that might be cracks in the party response to these crises. China's modern political history shows periods of apparent stability disrupted by violent political rows at the top.I have lived in China for about 15 years on and off since I first went there in 1981. I was in Beijing until the end of June this year (and will return there in August). My sense, as I spoke to people about the things that were happening, was that there were far greater differences of opinion than at any time since the demonstrations and massacre of 1989. I encountered angry anti-western sentiment, complaints that the west had not given enough aid to earthquake victims, complaints that western leaders who might boycott the opening ceremony of the Olympics were maliciously spoiling China's moment in the sun.I also encountered ordinary people \u2013 not people who would describe themselves as dissidents \u2013 who were furious with their leadership, who described as \"stupid\" their paranoia about Olympic security. (In Beijing, a security threat might include someone wearing a \"Free Tibet\" T-shirt). I have heard people say, \"Tibet has nothing to do with me, why should I care?\". I have heard people rail against propaganda. I have met taxi drivers who get their news from the internet and who can discuss intelligently the differences between Tony Blair and Gordon Brown. In the past, the party exerted control through state-run work units which dispensed healthcare and education as well as birth control and wages. People's lives were absorbed into the sphere of party control. That has largely vanished. The carrot and the stick have gone, people's economic lives are basically their own, and party rule is now largely exerted through a combination of propaganda and damage limitation.My point is simply that we should be mindful now, more than ever, how we think and write about China. We must distinguish China the nation from the Communist party leadership which dictates policy. We must remember at all times that the Communist party is rarely united and that stability is often an illusion. And most of all we should remember that the vast variation in opinion among the ordinary people who make up China does not make up a monolithic will. The struggle, as it emerges, will not be between \"China\" and \"its critics\" \u2013 it will be the debate inside China itself.", "tags": ["China", "Foreign policy", "Olympics 2008", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Olympics"], "title": "Catherine Sampson: The Communist leadership is not 'China'"},{"date": "2008-09-25T23:01:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "China took another stride forward in its space ambitions yesterday, as it launched a mission expected to include the country's first space walk.Shenzhou VII, its third manned space flight, blasted off from a remote site in the Gobi desert in the north-west of the country shortly after 9pm local time. It is almost five years since the country joined Russia and the United States as the only countries to have sent astronauts into space.\"The launch was totally successful,\" a senior official announced as the country's most senior leaders, who had gathered at the Jiquan launch site, applauded loudly. Earlier, President Hu Jintao hailed the three astronauts as heroes as he greeted them before they stepped into the Long March spacecraft. \"You will definitely accomplish this glorious and sacred mission. The motherland and the people are looking forward to your triumphant return,\" he told them. Half a century ago Mao Zedong lamented that China could not even launch a potato into space. But the country's programme is now highly ambitious and the space walk - expected to take place tomorrow - will be key to its long-term goals of creating an orbiting station in the next 10 years, and possibly making a visit to the moon.Kevin Pollpeter, from the Defense Group Inc in Washington, an expert on China's space programme, told Reuters: \"This will be a very outward show of Chinese power. The eventual goal is to build a space station. For them, that's become one of the trappings of being a great power.\" But Zhang Jianqi, one of the chief engineers, told the state news agency Xinhua that keeping three men aloft and sending one outside the capsule over 340 km (210 miles} above the Earth would be a \"big test\". \"Sending up three astronauts is a jump in both quantity and quality,\" he said.The Shenzhou - \"sacred vessel\" - programme has caused concern in Japan and the US, which fear China has military ambitions in space - particularly following an anti-satellite missile test last year.The team comprises Jing Haipeng, Zhai Zhigang, and Liu Boming. Zhai, an air force pilot who grew up in poverty in the country's far north-east, is the team leader and will carry out the spacewalk.The mission is expected to last around three days and the craft is due to land in Inner Mongolia on its return.", "tags": ["China", "Space", "Science", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China launches manned spacecraft"},{"date": "2008-07-28T13:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "\"What is not clear,\" Simon Jenkins wrote last Friday of the Beijing Olympics, \"is who will win, China or its critics\".We all know what Simon Jenkins means: that China's Communist party leadership is winning the short-term race to host the Olympics on its own terms, but it may face trouble running the marathon \u2013 the longer-term struggle. I broadly agree with this analysis.But when we use the word \"China\" to refer to the small group of party leaders who wield power, then we play the Communist party's game. Saying \"China\" when what we mean is actually the tiny group of men who run the country is a shorthand that we've all used, myself included. Before you roll your eyes and accuse me of being picky, I would argue that it is extremely important now, in 2008, to make this distinction.It is the Communist party which has, very cleverly, for decades, worked to conflate the greater good, patriotism, nationalism and one-party rule. That is why western media coverage is judged both inside and outside China to be either \"pro-\" or \"anti-\" China, when in many cases the western media is simply telling it how it is, or telling it as well as it can, given the limits on access. Is Simon Jenkins in fact using the Communist party's own vocabulary when he describes recent western press coverage of China as \"hostile\"?More importantly, this use of an all-inclusive \"China\" is the most potent method of control that the leadership has over its own people. To raise questions about one-party rule \u2013 indeed to raise questions about pretty much anything \u2013 is to be \"anti-China\", a dissident.This year, China's Communist party has faced a perfect storm of stresses. Natural disasters have stretched relief capabilities to their limits, first in the snowstorms at lunar new year, and then in the devastating earthquake. Rioting by Tibetans against Han Chinese has laid bare one of the most sensitive areas of policymaking, both internally and in relations with the west. The Olympic games, which were intended to be China's moment of glory, are threatening to go sour. Grievances about price rises and official corruption have fed protests and, in some cases, riots in the provinces.Journalists cannot report, because they do not know, what effect this has had on the Communist party leadership, which shows a publicly united front. But it would be naive to think that everything is as harmonious in private. For those skilled in the science of China-watching there are tiny hints that might be cracks in the party response to these crises. China's modern political history shows periods of apparent stability disrupted by violent political rows at the top.I have lived in China for about 15 years on and off since I first went there in 1981. I was in Beijing until the end of June this year (and will return there in August). My sense, as I spoke to people about the things that were happening, was that there were far greater differences of opinion than at any time since the demonstrations and massacre of 1989. I encountered angry anti-western sentiment, complaints that the west had not given enough aid to earthquake victims, complaints that western leaders who might boycott the opening ceremony of the Olympics were maliciously spoiling China's moment in the sun.I also encountered ordinary people \u2013 not people who would describe themselves as dissidents \u2013 who were furious with their leadership, who described as \"stupid\" their paranoia about Olympic security. (In Beijing, a security threat might include someone wearing a \"Free Tibet\" T-shirt). I have heard people say, \"Tibet has nothing to do with me, why should I care?\". I have heard people rail against propaganda. I have met taxi drivers who get their news from the internet and who can discuss intelligently the differences between Tony Blair and Gordon Brown. In the past, the party exerted control through state-run work units which dispensed healthcare and education as well as birth control and wages. People's lives were absorbed into the sphere of party control. That has largely vanished. The carrot and the stick have gone, people's economic lives are basically their own, and party rule is now largely exerted through a combination of propaganda and damage limitation.My point is simply that we should be mindful now, more than ever, how we think and write about China. We must distinguish China the nation from the Communist party leadership which dictates policy. We must remember at all times that the Communist party is rarely united and that stability is often an illusion. And most of all we should remember that the vast variation in opinion among the ordinary people who make up China does not make up a monolithic will. The struggle, as it emerges, will not be between \"China\" and \"its critics\" \u2013 it will be the debate inside China itself.", "tags": ["China", "Foreign policy", "Olympics 2008", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Olympics"], "title": "Catherine Sampson: The Communist leadership is not 'China'"},{"date": "2008-09-25T23:01:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "China took another stride forward in its space ambitions yesterday, as it launched a mission expected to include the country's first space walk.Shenzhou VII, its third manned space flight, blasted off from a remote site in the Gobi desert in the north-west of the country shortly after 9pm local time. It is almost five years since the country joined Russia and the United States as the only countries to have sent astronauts into space.\"The launch was totally successful,\" a senior official announced as the country's most senior leaders, who had gathered at the Jiquan launch site, applauded loudly. Earlier, President Hu Jintao hailed the three astronauts as heroes as he greeted them before they stepped into the Long March spacecraft. \"You will definitely accomplish this glorious and sacred mission. The motherland and the people are looking forward to your triumphant return,\" he told them. Half a century ago Mao Zedong lamented that China could not even launch a potato into space. But the country's programme is now highly ambitious and the space walk - expected to take place tomorrow - will be key to its long-term goals of creating an orbiting station in the next 10 years, and possibly making a visit to the moon.Kevin Pollpeter, from the Defense Group Inc in Washington, an expert on China's space programme, told Reuters: \"This will be a very outward show of Chinese power. The eventual goal is to build a space station. For them, that's become one of the trappings of being a great power.\" But Zhang Jianqi, one of the chief engineers, told the state news agency Xinhua that keeping three men aloft and sending one outside the capsule over 340 km (210 miles} above the Earth would be a \"big test\". \"Sending up three astronauts is a jump in both quantity and quality,\" he said.The Shenzhou - \"sacred vessel\" - programme has caused concern in Japan and the US, which fear China has military ambitions in space - particularly following an anti-satellite missile test last year.The team comprises Jing Haipeng, Zhai Zhigang, and Liu Boming. Zhai, an air force pilot who grew up in poverty in the country's far north-east, is the team leader and will carry out the spacewalk.The mission is expected to last around three days and the craft is due to land in Inner Mongolia on its return.", "tags": ["China", "Space", "Science", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China launches manned spacecraft"},{"date": "2008-09-25T14:27:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Three Chinese astronauts today blasted off on a mission to carry out the country's first spacewalk.Shengzhou 7 launched from the site in Jiuquan, north-west China, just after 9.10pm (2.10pm BST).Shortly after the launch the astronauts told the Beijing control centre they felt \"physically sound\".Depending on how well the astronauts acclimatise to weightlessness and the other physical demands of their environment, the spacewalk, which will only involve one of the astronauts actually leaving the orbit module, should take place on Friday or Saturday. They will then return to Earth.China's president, Hu Jintao, who watched the take-off from the launch centre, earlier told the astronauts: \"I believe you will have complete success in this glorious and sacred mission. The motherland and people are waiting for your triumphant return.\"The mission is China's third manned space venture since October 2003 when it joined Russia and the US as the only countries to have sent astronauts into orbit.A Chinese foreign ministry spokesman, Liu Jianchao, emphasised today that the country's aspirations were simply to \"explore and make peaceful use of outer space\".Other nations are less sure, especially after China used a ballistic missile to shoot down one of its own defunct satellites in January this year. A few months later, a senior US general argued that Beijing was \"aggressively\" developing space weaponry technology.Today, Kevin Pollpeter, an expert on China's space programme from the Defence Group Inc in Washington DC, described the mission as \"a very outward show of Chinese power\".\"The eventual goal is to build a space station. For them, that's become one of the trappings of being a great power,\" he told Reuters.The three astronauts are Zhai Zhigang, Liu Boming and Jing Haipeng, all aged 42. Two of them will don spacesuits for the spacewalk, although the pair who will enter the orbit module have yet to be named.Their task will be to take samples for tests. The crew will also release a small monitoring satellite and trial another satellite during the mission.China has developed its own EVA (extra-vehicular activity) spacesuit, which cost 30 million yuan (\u00a32.37m), described by Hu as \"a great leap for China's space technology\".One astronaut taking part in the spacewalk will wear the Chinese Feitian suit while the other will wear a Russian suit. Wang Zhaoyao, a spokesman with China's manned space programme said that Russian experts would provide technical support throughout the mission.China's Xinhua news agency reported that dozens of types of medications, including newly developed traditional Chinese medicine capsules, had been loaded on to the rocket.", "tags": ["China", "Space", "World news", "Technology", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China launches spacewalk mission"},{"date": "2008-07-28T13:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "\"What is not clear,\" Simon Jenkins wrote last Friday of the Beijing Olympics, \"is who will win, China or its critics\".We all know what Simon Jenkins means: that China's Communist party leadership is winning the short-term race to host the Olympics on its own terms, but it may face trouble running the marathon \u2013 the longer-term struggle. I broadly agree with this analysis.But when we use the word \"China\" to refer to the small group of party leaders who wield power, then we play the Communist party's game. Saying \"China\" when what we mean is actually the tiny group of men who run the country is a shorthand that we've all used, myself included. Before you roll your eyes and accuse me of being picky, I would argue that it is extremely important now, in 2008, to make this distinction.It is the Communist party which has, very cleverly, for decades, worked to conflate the greater good, patriotism, nationalism and one-party rule. That is why western media coverage is judged both inside and outside China to be either \"pro-\" or \"anti-\" China, when in many cases the western media is simply telling it how it is, or telling it as well as it can, given the limits on access. Is Simon Jenkins in fact using the Communist party's own vocabulary when he describes recent western press coverage of China as \"hostile\"?More importantly, this use of an all-inclusive \"China\" is the most potent method of control that the leadership has over its own people. To raise questions about one-party rule \u2013 indeed to raise questions about pretty much anything \u2013 is to be \"anti-China\", a dissident.This year, China's Communist party has faced a perfect storm of stresses. Natural disasters have stretched relief capabilities to their limits, first in the snowstorms at lunar new year, and then in the devastating earthquake. Rioting by Tibetans against Han Chinese has laid bare one of the most sensitive areas of policymaking, both internally and in relations with the west. The Olympic games, which were intended to be China's moment of glory, are threatening to go sour. Grievances about price rises and official corruption have fed protests and, in some cases, riots in the provinces.Journalists cannot report, because they do not know, what effect this has had on the Communist party leadership, which shows a publicly united front. But it would be naive to think that everything is as harmonious in private. For those skilled in the science of China-watching there are tiny hints that might be cracks in the party response to these crises. China's modern political history shows periods of apparent stability disrupted by violent political rows at the top.I have lived in China for about 15 years on and off since I first went there in 1981. I was in Beijing until the end of June this year (and will return there in August). My sense, as I spoke to people about the things that were happening, was that there were far greater differences of opinion than at any time since the demonstrations and massacre of 1989. I encountered angry anti-western sentiment, complaints that the west had not given enough aid to earthquake victims, complaints that western leaders who might boycott the opening ceremony of the Olympics were maliciously spoiling China's moment in the sun.I also encountered ordinary people \u2013 not people who would describe themselves as dissidents \u2013 who were furious with their leadership, who described as \"stupid\" their paranoia about Olympic security. (In Beijing, a security threat might include someone wearing a \"Free Tibet\" T-shirt). I have heard people say, \"Tibet has nothing to do with me, why should I care?\". I have heard people rail against propaganda. I have met taxi drivers who get their news from the internet and who can discuss intelligently the differences between Tony Blair and Gordon Brown. In the past, the party exerted control through state-run work units which dispensed healthcare and education as well as birth control and wages. People's lives were absorbed into the sphere of party control. That has largely vanished. The carrot and the stick have gone, people's economic lives are basically their own, and party rule is now largely exerted through a combination of propaganda and damage limitation.My point is simply that we should be mindful now, more than ever, how we think and write about China. We must distinguish China the nation from the Communist party leadership which dictates policy. We must remember at all times that the Communist party is rarely united and that stability is often an illusion. And most of all we should remember that the vast variation in opinion among the ordinary people who make up China does not make up a monolithic will. The struggle, as it emerges, will not be between \"China\" and \"its critics\" \u2013 it will be the debate inside China itself.", "tags": ["China", "Foreign policy", "Olympics 2008", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Olympics"], "title": "Catherine Sampson: The Communist leadership is not 'China'"},{"date": "2008-09-25T23:01:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "China took another stride forward in its space ambitions yesterday, as it launched a mission expected to include the country's first space walk.Shenzhou VII, its third manned space flight, blasted off from a remote site in the Gobi desert in the north-west of the country shortly after 9pm local time. It is almost five years since the country joined Russia and the United States as the only countries to have sent astronauts into space.\"The launch was totally successful,\" a senior official announced as the country's most senior leaders, who had gathered at the Jiquan launch site, applauded loudly. Earlier, President Hu Jintao hailed the three astronauts as heroes as he greeted them before they stepped into the Long March spacecraft. \"You will definitely accomplish this glorious and sacred mission. The motherland and the people are looking forward to your triumphant return,\" he told them. Half a century ago Mao Zedong lamented that China could not even launch a potato into space. But the country's programme is now highly ambitious and the space walk - expected to take place tomorrow - will be key to its long-term goals of creating an orbiting station in the next 10 years, and possibly making a visit to the moon.Kevin Pollpeter, from the Defense Group Inc in Washington, an expert on China's space programme, told Reuters: \"This will be a very outward show of Chinese power. The eventual goal is to build a space station. For them, that's become one of the trappings of being a great power.\" But Zhang Jianqi, one of the chief engineers, told the state news agency Xinhua that keeping three men aloft and sending one outside the capsule over 340 km (210 miles} above the Earth would be a \"big test\". \"Sending up three astronauts is a jump in both quantity and quality,\" he said.The Shenzhou - \"sacred vessel\" - programme has caused concern in Japan and the US, which fear China has military ambitions in space - particularly following an anti-satellite missile test last year.The team comprises Jing Haipeng, Zhai Zhigang, and Liu Boming. Zhai, an air force pilot who grew up in poverty in the country's far north-east, is the team leader and will carry out the spacewalk.The mission is expected to last around three days and the craft is due to land in Inner Mongolia on its return.", "tags": ["China", "Space", "Science", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China launches manned spacecraft"},{"date": "2008-09-25T14:27:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Three Chinese astronauts today blasted off on a mission to carry out the country's first spacewalk.Shengzhou 7 launched from the site in Jiuquan, north-west China, just after 9.10pm (2.10pm BST).Shortly after the launch the astronauts told the Beijing control centre they felt \"physically sound\".Depending on how well the astronauts acclimatise to weightlessness and the other physical demands of their environment, the spacewalk, which will only involve one of the astronauts actually leaving the orbit module, should take place on Friday or Saturday. They will then return to Earth.China's president, Hu Jintao, who watched the take-off from the launch centre, earlier told the astronauts: \"I believe you will have complete success in this glorious and sacred mission. The motherland and people are waiting for your triumphant return.\"The mission is China's third manned space venture since October 2003 when it joined Russia and the US as the only countries to have sent astronauts into orbit.A Chinese foreign ministry spokesman, Liu Jianchao, emphasised today that the country's aspirations were simply to \"explore and make peaceful use of outer space\".Other nations are less sure, especially after China used a ballistic missile to shoot down one of its own defunct satellites in January this year. A few months later, a senior US general argued that Beijing was \"aggressively\" developing space weaponry technology.Today, Kevin Pollpeter, an expert on China's space programme from the Defence Group Inc in Washington DC, described the mission as \"a very outward show of Chinese power\".\"The eventual goal is to build a space station. For them, that's become one of the trappings of being a great power,\" he told Reuters.The three astronauts are Zhai Zhigang, Liu Boming and Jing Haipeng, all aged 42. Two of them will don spacesuits for the spacewalk, although the pair who will enter the orbit module have yet to be named.Their task will be to take samples for tests. The crew will also release a small monitoring satellite and trial another satellite during the mission.China has developed its own EVA (extra-vehicular activity) spacesuit, which cost 30 million yuan (\u00a32.37m), described by Hu as \"a great leap for China's space technology\".One astronaut taking part in the spacewalk will wear the Chinese Feitian suit while the other will wear a Russian suit. Wang Zhaoyao, a spokesman with China's manned space programme said that Russian experts would provide technical support throughout the mission.China's Xinhua news agency reported that dozens of types of medications, including newly developed traditional Chinese medicine capsules, had been loaded on to the rocket.", "tags": ["China", "Space", "World news", "Technology", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China launches spacewalk mission"},{"date": "2008-08-19T16:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "For China, it was the biggest surprise of the Beijing Olympic games: Liu Xiang pulled out of the 110m hurdles. At 11.30am on Monday, the whole nation was shocked to see Liu walk off of the track. His achilles heel dashed his, and the whole nation's, golden dream.  In the hours following, an online poll on the website of Beijing's Economic Observer, 51% of the respondents voted Liu's actions were \"understandable\", leaving comments like \"Liu is a hero, but also a normal person. No one should require an athlete to run at the cost of a possible life-long injury.\" The rest were against the athlete's withdrawal, demanding he: \"At least finish the competition, even by walking or crawling.\" Three hours later, after a press conference during which his coach, in tears, defended Liu's decision, the authorities asked websites across China to run a piece of commentary, first appearing on the state-run People's Daily, urging people to show sympathy to Liu and respect his decision.  Liu was the whole nation's hero when he won China's first men's track and field gold medal at the Athens Olympics in 2004. It was a symbolic moment, when Chinese athletes finally broke into an area previously dominated by the west. To some extent, Liu was regarded as a symbol of China's ascent towards sporting superpower. Like the hosting of the Olympic games, Liu's success heralded the dawn of a new era, when China's success extends from economy to sports. Which is why Liu's performance attracted so much attention from the whole country, and possibly the whole world.  When Liu limped back to the starting line after the false start, my colleagues, watching the live TV broadcast in the office, began to speculate about the severity of his injury, reported previously in the media. After his exit was confirmed, a fierce debate broke out, with most sympathising with Liu.  Chinese people are so eager to become successful, not only in the economic field, but also in sport, to prove that the dark 20th century, when the country was invaded by western and Japanese powers, has faded permanently into history. The national frenzy after the successful launch of the Shenzhou 6 manned aircraft into orbit was more evidence of this. Liu's failure is in some way seen as shattering his nation's hopes. In this context, it's understandable that some Chinese have castigated him.  On the other hand, the expanding economy and ongoing property rights reforms have broadened the outlook of Chinese people. Many of them now believe individual property rights should be protected and that private ownership would ensure a more prosperous society. Respect for the individual is a precondition of private ownership protection. Thus, many Chinese are realising that the government has no right to intervene in their private decisions. In this context, it is understandable that Liu's decision is regarded by many as motivated by selfishness and self-preservation.I for one respect Liu's decision: he is the only one who should be responsible for himself. We have no right to ask him to sacrifice his health in the name of the nation's glory.  It is intriguing that the government has shown sympathy towards Liu. Unlike the opening ceremony, Liu's failure can be regarded as a personal one, but not a national humiliation. A gold medal from Liu would have been perfect, but it is no longer essential. Decades ago, reports in the official media praised military pilots for risking their lives to land a faulty fighter jet safely instead of aborting the mission and losing the plane. At that time the value of an aircraft, in the eyes of some officials, was higher than the life of a pilot. That is not the case now. In April 2001, when a Chinese fighter jet collided with a US spy plane over the South China Sea, the pilot Wang Wei aborted his fighter jet after the collision, but was still regarded as a hero. This reflects a positive development in China: official attitudes are changing and becoming more humane.  China's vice-president, Xi Jinping, even contacted the general administration of sport to express concern and sympathy for Liu, state (and world) media reported. If Liu can't provide additional glory to China's gold count, why not use this as an opportunity to show the more humane side of the Chinese government?", "tags": ["Olympics 2008", "China", "Olympics 2008: Athletics", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "China Olympic team", "Olympics"], "title": "Zhang Hong: China still loves Liu"},{"date": "2008-07-28T13:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "\"What is not clear,\" Simon Jenkins wrote last Friday of the Beijing Olympics, \"is who will win, China or its critics\".We all know what Simon Jenkins means: that China's Communist party leadership is winning the short-term race to host the Olympics on its own terms, but it may face trouble running the marathon \u2013 the longer-term struggle. I broadly agree with this analysis.But when we use the word \"China\" to refer to the small group of party leaders who wield power, then we play the Communist party's game. Saying \"China\" when what we mean is actually the tiny group of men who run the country is a shorthand that we've all used, myself included. Before you roll your eyes and accuse me of being picky, I would argue that it is extremely important now, in 2008, to make this distinction.It is the Communist party which has, very cleverly, for decades, worked to conflate the greater good, patriotism, nationalism and one-party rule. That is why western media coverage is judged both inside and outside China to be either \"pro-\" or \"anti-\" China, when in many cases the western media is simply telling it how it is, or telling it as well as it can, given the limits on access. Is Simon Jenkins in fact using the Communist party's own vocabulary when he describes recent western press coverage of China as \"hostile\"?More importantly, this use of an all-inclusive \"China\" is the most potent method of control that the leadership has over its own people. To raise questions about one-party rule \u2013 indeed to raise questions about pretty much anything \u2013 is to be \"anti-China\", a dissident.This year, China's Communist party has faced a perfect storm of stresses. Natural disasters have stretched relief capabilities to their limits, first in the snowstorms at lunar new year, and then in the devastating earthquake. Rioting by Tibetans against Han Chinese has laid bare one of the most sensitive areas of policymaking, both internally and in relations with the west. The Olympic games, which were intended to be China's moment of glory, are threatening to go sour. Grievances about price rises and official corruption have fed protests and, in some cases, riots in the provinces.Journalists cannot report, because they do not know, what effect this has had on the Communist party leadership, which shows a publicly united front. But it would be naive to think that everything is as harmonious in private. For those skilled in the science of China-watching there are tiny hints that might be cracks in the party response to these crises. China's modern political history shows periods of apparent stability disrupted by violent political rows at the top.I have lived in China for about 15 years on and off since I first went there in 1981. I was in Beijing until the end of June this year (and will return there in August). My sense, as I spoke to people about the things that were happening, was that there were far greater differences of opinion than at any time since the demonstrations and massacre of 1989. I encountered angry anti-western sentiment, complaints that the west had not given enough aid to earthquake victims, complaints that western leaders who might boycott the opening ceremony of the Olympics were maliciously spoiling China's moment in the sun.I also encountered ordinary people \u2013 not people who would describe themselves as dissidents \u2013 who were furious with their leadership, who described as \"stupid\" their paranoia about Olympic security. (In Beijing, a security threat might include someone wearing a \"Free Tibet\" T-shirt). I have heard people say, \"Tibet has nothing to do with me, why should I care?\". I have heard people rail against propaganda. I have met taxi drivers who get their news from the internet and who can discuss intelligently the differences between Tony Blair and Gordon Brown. In the past, the party exerted control through state-run work units which dispensed healthcare and education as well as birth control and wages. People's lives were absorbed into the sphere of party control. That has largely vanished. The carrot and the stick have gone, people's economic lives are basically their own, and party rule is now largely exerted through a combination of propaganda and damage limitation.My point is simply that we should be mindful now, more than ever, how we think and write about China. We must distinguish China the nation from the Communist party leadership which dictates policy. We must remember at all times that the Communist party is rarely united and that stability is often an illusion. And most of all we should remember that the vast variation in opinion among the ordinary people who make up China does not make up a monolithic will. The struggle, as it emerges, will not be between \"China\" and \"its critics\" \u2013 it will be the debate inside China itself.", "tags": ["China", "Foreign policy", "Olympics 2008", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Olympics"], "title": "Catherine Sampson: The Communist leadership is not 'China'"},{"date": "2008-09-25T23:01:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "China took another stride forward in its space ambitions yesterday, as it launched a mission expected to include the country's first space walk.Shenzhou VII, its third manned space flight, blasted off from a remote site in the Gobi desert in the north-west of the country shortly after 9pm local time. It is almost five years since the country joined Russia and the United States as the only countries to have sent astronauts into space.\"The launch was totally successful,\" a senior official announced as the country's most senior leaders, who had gathered at the Jiquan launch site, applauded loudly. Earlier, President Hu Jintao hailed the three astronauts as heroes as he greeted them before they stepped into the Long March spacecraft. \"You will definitely accomplish this glorious and sacred mission. The motherland and the people are looking forward to your triumphant return,\" he told them. Half a century ago Mao Zedong lamented that China could not even launch a potato into space. But the country's programme is now highly ambitious and the space walk - expected to take place tomorrow - will be key to its long-term goals of creating an orbiting station in the next 10 years, and possibly making a visit to the moon.Kevin Pollpeter, from the Defense Group Inc in Washington, an expert on China's space programme, told Reuters: \"This will be a very outward show of Chinese power. The eventual goal is to build a space station. For them, that's become one of the trappings of being a great power.\" But Zhang Jianqi, one of the chief engineers, told the state news agency Xinhua that keeping three men aloft and sending one outside the capsule over 340 km (210 miles} above the Earth would be a \"big test\". \"Sending up three astronauts is a jump in both quantity and quality,\" he said.The Shenzhou - \"sacred vessel\" - programme has caused concern in Japan and the US, which fear China has military ambitions in space - particularly following an anti-satellite missile test last year.The team comprises Jing Haipeng, Zhai Zhigang, and Liu Boming. Zhai, an air force pilot who grew up in poverty in the country's far north-east, is the team leader and will carry out the spacewalk.The mission is expected to last around three days and the craft is due to land in Inner Mongolia on its return.", "tags": ["China", "Space", "Science", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China launches manned spacecraft"},{"date": "2008-09-25T14:27:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Three Chinese astronauts today blasted off on a mission to carry out the country's first spacewalk.Shengzhou 7 launched from the site in Jiuquan, north-west China, just after 9.10pm (2.10pm BST).Shortly after the launch the astronauts told the Beijing control centre they felt \"physically sound\".Depending on how well the astronauts acclimatise to weightlessness and the other physical demands of their environment, the spacewalk, which will only involve one of the astronauts actually leaving the orbit module, should take place on Friday or Saturday. They will then return to Earth.China's president, Hu Jintao, who watched the take-off from the launch centre, earlier told the astronauts: \"I believe you will have complete success in this glorious and sacred mission. The motherland and people are waiting for your triumphant return.\"The mission is China's third manned space venture since October 2003 when it joined Russia and the US as the only countries to have sent astronauts into orbit.A Chinese foreign ministry spokesman, Liu Jianchao, emphasised today that the country's aspirations were simply to \"explore and make peaceful use of outer space\".Other nations are less sure, especially after China used a ballistic missile to shoot down one of its own defunct satellites in January this year. A few months later, a senior US general argued that Beijing was \"aggressively\" developing space weaponry technology.Today, Kevin Pollpeter, an expert on China's space programme from the Defence Group Inc in Washington DC, described the mission as \"a very outward show of Chinese power\".\"The eventual goal is to build a space station. For them, that's become one of the trappings of being a great power,\" he told Reuters.The three astronauts are Zhai Zhigang, Liu Boming and Jing Haipeng, all aged 42. Two of them will don spacesuits for the spacewalk, although the pair who will enter the orbit module have yet to be named.Their task will be to take samples for tests. The crew will also release a small monitoring satellite and trial another satellite during the mission.China has developed its own EVA (extra-vehicular activity) spacesuit, which cost 30 million yuan (\u00a32.37m), described by Hu as \"a great leap for China's space technology\".One astronaut taking part in the spacewalk will wear the Chinese Feitian suit while the other will wear a Russian suit. Wang Zhaoyao, a spokesman with China's manned space programme said that Russian experts would provide technical support throughout the mission.China's Xinhua news agency reported that dozens of types of medications, including newly developed traditional Chinese medicine capsules, had been loaded on to the rocket.", "tags": ["China", "Space", "World news", "Technology", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China launches spacewalk mission"},{"date": "2008-08-19T16:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "For China, it was the biggest surprise of the Beijing Olympic games: Liu Xiang pulled out of the 110m hurdles. At 11.30am on Monday, the whole nation was shocked to see Liu walk off of the track. His achilles heel dashed his, and the whole nation's, golden dream.  In the hours following, an online poll on the website of Beijing's Economic Observer, 51% of the respondents voted Liu's actions were \"understandable\", leaving comments like \"Liu is a hero, but also a normal person. No one should require an athlete to run at the cost of a possible life-long injury.\" The rest were against the athlete's withdrawal, demanding he: \"At least finish the competition, even by walking or crawling.\" Three hours later, after a press conference during which his coach, in tears, defended Liu's decision, the authorities asked websites across China to run a piece of commentary, first appearing on the state-run People's Daily, urging people to show sympathy to Liu and respect his decision.  Liu was the whole nation's hero when he won China's first men's track and field gold medal at the Athens Olympics in 2004. It was a symbolic moment, when Chinese athletes finally broke into an area previously dominated by the west. To some extent, Liu was regarded as a symbol of China's ascent towards sporting superpower. Like the hosting of the Olympic games, Liu's success heralded the dawn of a new era, when China's success extends from economy to sports. Which is why Liu's performance attracted so much attention from the whole country, and possibly the whole world.  When Liu limped back to the starting line after the false start, my colleagues, watching the live TV broadcast in the office, began to speculate about the severity of his injury, reported previously in the media. After his exit was confirmed, a fierce debate broke out, with most sympathising with Liu.  Chinese people are so eager to become successful, not only in the economic field, but also in sport, to prove that the dark 20th century, when the country was invaded by western and Japanese powers, has faded permanently into history. The national frenzy after the successful launch of the Shenzhou 6 manned aircraft into orbit was more evidence of this. Liu's failure is in some way seen as shattering his nation's hopes. In this context, it's understandable that some Chinese have castigated him.  On the other hand, the expanding economy and ongoing property rights reforms have broadened the outlook of Chinese people. Many of them now believe individual property rights should be protected and that private ownership would ensure a more prosperous society. Respect for the individual is a precondition of private ownership protection. Thus, many Chinese are realising that the government has no right to intervene in their private decisions. In this context, it is understandable that Liu's decision is regarded by many as motivated by selfishness and self-preservation.I for one respect Liu's decision: he is the only one who should be responsible for himself. We have no right to ask him to sacrifice his health in the name of the nation's glory.  It is intriguing that the government has shown sympathy towards Liu. Unlike the opening ceremony, Liu's failure can be regarded as a personal one, but not a national humiliation. A gold medal from Liu would have been perfect, but it is no longer essential. Decades ago, reports in the official media praised military pilots for risking their lives to land a faulty fighter jet safely instead of aborting the mission and losing the plane. At that time the value of an aircraft, in the eyes of some officials, was higher than the life of a pilot. That is not the case now. In April 2001, when a Chinese fighter jet collided with a US spy plane over the South China Sea, the pilot Wang Wei aborted his fighter jet after the collision, but was still regarded as a hero. This reflects a positive development in China: official attitudes are changing and becoming more humane.  China's vice-president, Xi Jinping, even contacted the general administration of sport to express concern and sympathy for Liu, state (and world) media reported. If Liu can't provide additional glory to China's gold count, why not use this as an opportunity to show the more humane side of the Chinese government?", "tags": ["Olympics 2008", "China", "Olympics 2008: Athletics", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "China Olympic team", "Olympics"], "title": "Zhang Hong: China still loves Liu"},{"date": "2008-08-17T09:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "When I was in Beijing in July, I had the China Daily \u2013 the state-run English language newspaper \u2013 delivered to my hotel room every morning. On my last day in the city, July 18, I almost dropped my croissant when I opened the paper and saw a report about me.Shortly before leaving London for Beijing, I had given a speech at the Battle for China, a conference organised by the Institute of Ideas, at which I argued that western governments have no moral authority to lecture anybody \u2013 including the Chinese \u2013 about human rights. I argued that respect for liberty is at a historic low in America and Europe, where governments think nothing of introducing 42-day detention without charge, spying on us through CCTV cameras or email surveillance, and bringing in new thought crimes \u2013 and therefore asking President Bush or our own beleaguered PM to pressurise China to \"embrace liberty\" was a bit like \"asking Rose West to open a halfway house for young runaways\".China Daily reported my comments (including the joke about Rose West), telling its readers that a British journalist had said that Bush and Brown should not be called upon to help \"liberate China\" since \"people in the moral gutter cannot take the moral high ground\". I was even more startled when I discovered that an article I wrote for Times Online to accompany my speech in London had been republished in the People's Daily, the main organ of the central committee of the Communist party of China.Two of my articles for Comment is free have also been republished in China \u2013 both times without my, or the Guardian's, permission and both times in a politically truncated form.In June, China Daily republished my Cif piece calling the Dalai Lama a \"ridiculous\" political figure who has been embraced by western governments as a \"battering ram in their culture war with China\". However, it cut the line that said: \"Tibetans now suffer the double horror of being ruled by undemocratic Chinese officials on one hand, and demeaned by the Dalai Lama and his western supporters on the other.\"More recently, on the day the Olympics kicked off, China Daily re-ran my Cif piece on why Chinese people are optimistic about their country's future but western observers \u2013 who tend to find industrialisation and economic growth rather distasteful these days \u2013 are not. But it forgot to include my conclusion: \"Chinese people's material lives are improving; let us hope their political lives rapidly improve, too.\"I've had a flurry of outraged emails. \"So are you now actually in the pay of the Chinese Communist party, you unbelievable bastard?\" \u2013 that kind of thing. That's not surprising, considering that many people immediately assume that anyone who criticises western China-bashing, thinks economic growth in China is a good thing, or refuses to swear an oath of allegiance to the gospel according to Human Rights Watch must surely receive from Beijing wads of yuan stained with the blood of protesters massacred in Tiananmen Square. (It really didn't help matters when, around the same time, the state-run Zimbabwe Herald republished an article of mine attacking western intervention in Zimbabwe. Thanks a lot, Mugabe.)No, I'm not in the pay of Chinese state officials; I didn't even know they were planning to republish my articles. However, the re-emergence of some of my work in China is revealing.First, it shows that Chinese editors take a more cavalier approach to copyright issues than most western editors do. As an internationalist, I'm not opposed to seeing my arguments republished in China, or anywhere else. But there must be a more upfront, fruitful way that ideas can be shared across borders which doesn't involve simply taking articles and submitting them to a rush-job edit. An open and honest sharing of content between the east and west, based on respect for copyright, would be a great way to break down cultural barriers.Second, it actually shows how rife is China-bashing in the west. At a time when there is an extraordinary left/right, transatlantic consensus that China is a threat \u2013 encompassing everyone from white-haired rightwingers in America offended by China's economic rise to trendy students in Britain who think China is polluting their pristine parks in with its global smog \u2013 it seems Chinese editors are on the lookout for sceptical western voices that say something different.In today's borderline Sinophobic climate, perhaps my articles \u2013 and those of a handful of other journalists, too \u2013 have been snapped up as evidence that not everyone in the west thinks China's economic growth is a filthy disaster or that its human rights abuses in Tibet and elsewhere are somehow more unusually cruel and barbaric than those of our own governments in Iraq and Afghanistan. This is a two-way street: Chinese state editors should be more upfront about which of our articles they want to reprint, and western reporters should do more to challenge the simple-minded demonisation of China, which \u2013 who knows \u2013 may be a contributing factor in their apparent unwillingness to engage.", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Human rights", "Media", "Law", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Brendan O'Neill: Making headlines in China"},{"date": "2008-07-28T13:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "\"What is not clear,\" Simon Jenkins wrote last Friday of the Beijing Olympics, \"is who will win, China or its critics\".We all know what Simon Jenkins means: that China's Communist party leadership is winning the short-term race to host the Olympics on its own terms, but it may face trouble running the marathon \u2013 the longer-term struggle. I broadly agree with this analysis.But when we use the word \"China\" to refer to the small group of party leaders who wield power, then we play the Communist party's game. Saying \"China\" when what we mean is actually the tiny group of men who run the country is a shorthand that we've all used, myself included. Before you roll your eyes and accuse me of being picky, I would argue that it is extremely important now, in 2008, to make this distinction.It is the Communist party which has, very cleverly, for decades, worked to conflate the greater good, patriotism, nationalism and one-party rule. That is why western media coverage is judged both inside and outside China to be either \"pro-\" or \"anti-\" China, when in many cases the western media is simply telling it how it is, or telling it as well as it can, given the limits on access. Is Simon Jenkins in fact using the Communist party's own vocabulary when he describes recent western press coverage of China as \"hostile\"?More importantly, this use of an all-inclusive \"China\" is the most potent method of control that the leadership has over its own people. To raise questions about one-party rule \u2013 indeed to raise questions about pretty much anything \u2013 is to be \"anti-China\", a dissident.This year, China's Communist party has faced a perfect storm of stresses. Natural disasters have stretched relief capabilities to their limits, first in the snowstorms at lunar new year, and then in the devastating earthquake. Rioting by Tibetans against Han Chinese has laid bare one of the most sensitive areas of policymaking, both internally and in relations with the west. The Olympic games, which were intended to be China's moment of glory, are threatening to go sour. Grievances about price rises and official corruption have fed protests and, in some cases, riots in the provinces.Journalists cannot report, because they do not know, what effect this has had on the Communist party leadership, which shows a publicly united front. But it would be naive to think that everything is as harmonious in private. For those skilled in the science of China-watching there are tiny hints that might be cracks in the party response to these crises. China's modern political history shows periods of apparent stability disrupted by violent political rows at the top.I have lived in China for about 15 years on and off since I first went there in 1981. I was in Beijing until the end of June this year (and will return there in August). My sense, as I spoke to people about the things that were happening, was that there were far greater differences of opinion than at any time since the demonstrations and massacre of 1989. I encountered angry anti-western sentiment, complaints that the west had not given enough aid to earthquake victims, complaints that western leaders who might boycott the opening ceremony of the Olympics were maliciously spoiling China's moment in the sun.I also encountered ordinary people \u2013 not people who would describe themselves as dissidents \u2013 who were furious with their leadership, who described as \"stupid\" their paranoia about Olympic security. (In Beijing, a security threat might include someone wearing a \"Free Tibet\" T-shirt). I have heard people say, \"Tibet has nothing to do with me, why should I care?\". I have heard people rail against propaganda. I have met taxi drivers who get their news from the internet and who can discuss intelligently the differences between Tony Blair and Gordon Brown. In the past, the party exerted control through state-run work units which dispensed healthcare and education as well as birth control and wages. People's lives were absorbed into the sphere of party control. That has largely vanished. The carrot and the stick have gone, people's economic lives are basically their own, and party rule is now largely exerted through a combination of propaganda and damage limitation.My point is simply that we should be mindful now, more than ever, how we think and write about China. We must distinguish China the nation from the Communist party leadership which dictates policy. We must remember at all times that the Communist party is rarely united and that stability is often an illusion. And most of all we should remember that the vast variation in opinion among the ordinary people who make up China does not make up a monolithic will. The struggle, as it emerges, will not be between \"China\" and \"its critics\" \u2013 it will be the debate inside China itself.", "tags": ["China", "Foreign policy", "Olympics 2008", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Olympics"], "title": "Catherine Sampson: The Communist leadership is not 'China'"},{"date": "2008-09-25T23:01:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "China took another stride forward in its space ambitions yesterday, as it launched a mission expected to include the country's first space walk.Shenzhou VII, its third manned space flight, blasted off from a remote site in the Gobi desert in the north-west of the country shortly after 9pm local time. It is almost five years since the country joined Russia and the United States as the only countries to have sent astronauts into space.\"The launch was totally successful,\" a senior official announced as the country's most senior leaders, who had gathered at the Jiquan launch site, applauded loudly. Earlier, President Hu Jintao hailed the three astronauts as heroes as he greeted them before they stepped into the Long March spacecraft. \"You will definitely accomplish this glorious and sacred mission. The motherland and the people are looking forward to your triumphant return,\" he told them. Half a century ago Mao Zedong lamented that China could not even launch a potato into space. But the country's programme is now highly ambitious and the space walk - expected to take place tomorrow - will be key to its long-term goals of creating an orbiting station in the next 10 years, and possibly making a visit to the moon.Kevin Pollpeter, from the Defense Group Inc in Washington, an expert on China's space programme, told Reuters: \"This will be a very outward show of Chinese power. The eventual goal is to build a space station. For them, that's become one of the trappings of being a great power.\" But Zhang Jianqi, one of the chief engineers, told the state news agency Xinhua that keeping three men aloft and sending one outside the capsule over 340 km (210 miles} above the Earth would be a \"big test\". \"Sending up three astronauts is a jump in both quantity and quality,\" he said.The Shenzhou - \"sacred vessel\" - programme has caused concern in Japan and the US, which fear China has military ambitions in space - particularly following an anti-satellite missile test last year.The team comprises Jing Haipeng, Zhai Zhigang, and Liu Boming. Zhai, an air force pilot who grew up in poverty in the country's far north-east, is the team leader and will carry out the spacewalk.The mission is expected to last around three days and the craft is due to land in Inner Mongolia on its return.", "tags": ["China", "Space", "Science", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China launches manned spacecraft"},{"date": "2008-09-25T14:27:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Three Chinese astronauts today blasted off on a mission to carry out the country's first spacewalk.Shengzhou 7 launched from the site in Jiuquan, north-west China, just after 9.10pm (2.10pm BST).Shortly after the launch the astronauts told the Beijing control centre they felt \"physically sound\".Depending on how well the astronauts acclimatise to weightlessness and the other physical demands of their environment, the spacewalk, which will only involve one of the astronauts actually leaving the orbit module, should take place on Friday or Saturday. They will then return to Earth.China's president, Hu Jintao, who watched the take-off from the launch centre, earlier told the astronauts: \"I believe you will have complete success in this glorious and sacred mission. The motherland and people are waiting for your triumphant return.\"The mission is China's third manned space venture since October 2003 when it joined Russia and the US as the only countries to have sent astronauts into orbit.A Chinese foreign ministry spokesman, Liu Jianchao, emphasised today that the country's aspirations were simply to \"explore and make peaceful use of outer space\".Other nations are less sure, especially after China used a ballistic missile to shoot down one of its own defunct satellites in January this year. A few months later, a senior US general argued that Beijing was \"aggressively\" developing space weaponry technology.Today, Kevin Pollpeter, an expert on China's space programme from the Defence Group Inc in Washington DC, described the mission as \"a very outward show of Chinese power\".\"The eventual goal is to build a space station. For them, that's become one of the trappings of being a great power,\" he told Reuters.The three astronauts are Zhai Zhigang, Liu Boming and Jing Haipeng, all aged 42. Two of them will don spacesuits for the spacewalk, although the pair who will enter the orbit module have yet to be named.Their task will be to take samples for tests. The crew will also release a small monitoring satellite and trial another satellite during the mission.China has developed its own EVA (extra-vehicular activity) spacesuit, which cost 30 million yuan (\u00a32.37m), described by Hu as \"a great leap for China's space technology\".One astronaut taking part in the spacewalk will wear the Chinese Feitian suit while the other will wear a Russian suit. Wang Zhaoyao, a spokesman with China's manned space programme said that Russian experts would provide technical support throughout the mission.China's Xinhua news agency reported that dozens of types of medications, including newly developed traditional Chinese medicine capsules, had been loaded on to the rocket.", "tags": ["China", "Space", "World news", "Technology", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China launches spacewalk mission"},{"date": "2008-08-19T16:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "For China, it was the biggest surprise of the Beijing Olympic games: Liu Xiang pulled out of the 110m hurdles. At 11.30am on Monday, the whole nation was shocked to see Liu walk off of the track. His achilles heel dashed his, and the whole nation's, golden dream.  In the hours following, an online poll on the website of Beijing's Economic Observer, 51% of the respondents voted Liu's actions were \"understandable\", leaving comments like \"Liu is a hero, but also a normal person. No one should require an athlete to run at the cost of a possible life-long injury.\" The rest were against the athlete's withdrawal, demanding he: \"At least finish the competition, even by walking or crawling.\" Three hours later, after a press conference during which his coach, in tears, defended Liu's decision, the authorities asked websites across China to run a piece of commentary, first appearing on the state-run People's Daily, urging people to show sympathy to Liu and respect his decision.  Liu was the whole nation's hero when he won China's first men's track and field gold medal at the Athens Olympics in 2004. It was a symbolic moment, when Chinese athletes finally broke into an area previously dominated by the west. To some extent, Liu was regarded as a symbol of China's ascent towards sporting superpower. Like the hosting of the Olympic games, Liu's success heralded the dawn of a new era, when China's success extends from economy to sports. Which is why Liu's performance attracted so much attention from the whole country, and possibly the whole world.  When Liu limped back to the starting line after the false start, my colleagues, watching the live TV broadcast in the office, began to speculate about the severity of his injury, reported previously in the media. After his exit was confirmed, a fierce debate broke out, with most sympathising with Liu.  Chinese people are so eager to become successful, not only in the economic field, but also in sport, to prove that the dark 20th century, when the country was invaded by western and Japanese powers, has faded permanently into history. The national frenzy after the successful launch of the Shenzhou 6 manned aircraft into orbit was more evidence of this. Liu's failure is in some way seen as shattering his nation's hopes. In this context, it's understandable that some Chinese have castigated him.  On the other hand, the expanding economy and ongoing property rights reforms have broadened the outlook of Chinese people. Many of them now believe individual property rights should be protected and that private ownership would ensure a more prosperous society. Respect for the individual is a precondition of private ownership protection. Thus, many Chinese are realising that the government has no right to intervene in their private decisions. In this context, it is understandable that Liu's decision is regarded by many as motivated by selfishness and self-preservation.I for one respect Liu's decision: he is the only one who should be responsible for himself. We have no right to ask him to sacrifice his health in the name of the nation's glory.  It is intriguing that the government has shown sympathy towards Liu. Unlike the opening ceremony, Liu's failure can be regarded as a personal one, but not a national humiliation. A gold medal from Liu would have been perfect, but it is no longer essential. Decades ago, reports in the official media praised military pilots for risking their lives to land a faulty fighter jet safely instead of aborting the mission and losing the plane. At that time the value of an aircraft, in the eyes of some officials, was higher than the life of a pilot. That is not the case now. In April 2001, when a Chinese fighter jet collided with a US spy plane over the South China Sea, the pilot Wang Wei aborted his fighter jet after the collision, but was still regarded as a hero. This reflects a positive development in China: official attitudes are changing and becoming more humane.  China's vice-president, Xi Jinping, even contacted the general administration of sport to express concern and sympathy for Liu, state (and world) media reported. If Liu can't provide additional glory to China's gold count, why not use this as an opportunity to show the more humane side of the Chinese government?", "tags": ["Olympics 2008", "China", "Olympics 2008: Athletics", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "China Olympic team", "Olympics"], "title": "Zhang Hong: China still loves Liu"},{"date": "2008-08-17T09:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "When I was in Beijing in July, I had the China Daily \u2013 the state-run English language newspaper \u2013 delivered to my hotel room every morning. On my last day in the city, July 18, I almost dropped my croissant when I opened the paper and saw a report about me.Shortly before leaving London for Beijing, I had given a speech at the Battle for China, a conference organised by the Institute of Ideas, at which I argued that western governments have no moral authority to lecture anybody \u2013 including the Chinese \u2013 about human rights. I argued that respect for liberty is at a historic low in America and Europe, where governments think nothing of introducing 42-day detention without charge, spying on us through CCTV cameras or email surveillance, and bringing in new thought crimes \u2013 and therefore asking President Bush or our own beleaguered PM to pressurise China to \"embrace liberty\" was a bit like \"asking Rose West to open a halfway house for young runaways\".China Daily reported my comments (including the joke about Rose West), telling its readers that a British journalist had said that Bush and Brown should not be called upon to help \"liberate China\" since \"people in the moral gutter cannot take the moral high ground\". I was even more startled when I discovered that an article I wrote for Times Online to accompany my speech in London had been republished in the People's Daily, the main organ of the central committee of the Communist party of China.Two of my articles for Comment is free have also been republished in China \u2013 both times without my, or the Guardian's, permission and both times in a politically truncated form.In June, China Daily republished my Cif piece calling the Dalai Lama a \"ridiculous\" political figure who has been embraced by western governments as a \"battering ram in their culture war with China\". However, it cut the line that said: \"Tibetans now suffer the double horror of being ruled by undemocratic Chinese officials on one hand, and demeaned by the Dalai Lama and his western supporters on the other.\"More recently, on the day the Olympics kicked off, China Daily re-ran my Cif piece on why Chinese people are optimistic about their country's future but western observers \u2013 who tend to find industrialisation and economic growth rather distasteful these days \u2013 are not. But it forgot to include my conclusion: \"Chinese people's material lives are improving; let us hope their political lives rapidly improve, too.\"I've had a flurry of outraged emails. \"So are you now actually in the pay of the Chinese Communist party, you unbelievable bastard?\" \u2013 that kind of thing. That's not surprising, considering that many people immediately assume that anyone who criticises western China-bashing, thinks economic growth in China is a good thing, or refuses to swear an oath of allegiance to the gospel according to Human Rights Watch must surely receive from Beijing wads of yuan stained with the blood of protesters massacred in Tiananmen Square. (It really didn't help matters when, around the same time, the state-run Zimbabwe Herald republished an article of mine attacking western intervention in Zimbabwe. Thanks a lot, Mugabe.)No, I'm not in the pay of Chinese state officials; I didn't even know they were planning to republish my articles. However, the re-emergence of some of my work in China is revealing.First, it shows that Chinese editors take a more cavalier approach to copyright issues than most western editors do. As an internationalist, I'm not opposed to seeing my arguments republished in China, or anywhere else. But there must be a more upfront, fruitful way that ideas can be shared across borders which doesn't involve simply taking articles and submitting them to a rush-job edit. An open and honest sharing of content between the east and west, based on respect for copyright, would be a great way to break down cultural barriers.Second, it actually shows how rife is China-bashing in the west. At a time when there is an extraordinary left/right, transatlantic consensus that China is a threat \u2013 encompassing everyone from white-haired rightwingers in America offended by China's economic rise to trendy students in Britain who think China is polluting their pristine parks in with its global smog \u2013 it seems Chinese editors are on the lookout for sceptical western voices that say something different.In today's borderline Sinophobic climate, perhaps my articles \u2013 and those of a handful of other journalists, too \u2013 have been snapped up as evidence that not everyone in the west thinks China's economic growth is a filthy disaster or that its human rights abuses in Tibet and elsewhere are somehow more unusually cruel and barbaric than those of our own governments in Iraq and Afghanistan. This is a two-way street: Chinese state editors should be more upfront about which of our articles they want to reprint, and western reporters should do more to challenge the simple-minded demonisation of China, which \u2013 who knows \u2013 may be a contributing factor in their apparent unwillingness to engage.", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Human rights", "Media", "Law", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Brendan O'Neill: Making headlines in China"},{"date": "2008-08-05T14:53:46Z", "country": "china", "content": "The Xinjiang Autonomous Region lies in China's north west, bordering central Asia. Covering a sixth of the country's total territory, it is a vast but sparsely populated area with around 19 million inhabitants. Around 8 million are Turkic-speaking Uighur Muslims, concentrated in the south of the region around cities such as Kashgar, known to the Chinese as Kashi, which lies around 2,500 miles from Beijing.Increasing controls on religious and cultural activity, large scale Han Chinese migration and economic marginalisation have all played a part, said Nicholas Bequelin of Human Rights Watch, who has researched the area extensively.The proportion of Han Chinese inhabitants rose from 6% in 1949 to 40% by around 2000 and migrants had begun to spread from cities into rural areas, where they found themselves in competition with Uighur communities for water and land. Many Uighurs complain that they have not benefited from the region's economic development, finding it harder to access benefits such as government grants or bank loans.\"The political reality of southern Xinjiang is that Uighurs don't see themselves as Chinese,\" added Bequelin. But while some seek a separate \"East Turkestan\", others merely hope for greater cultural freedom.Xinjiang has experienced sporadic outbursts of separatist activity and more general anti-government protest.\"It may be that as many as a couple of hundred have been killed by separatists alone [since the early 90s], and of course people have been executed or killed in police raids,\" said Professor Barry Sautman, a specialist in ethnic politics in China at the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology.Violence peaked in 1997, with fatal bus bombings and riots after a peaceful protest was suppressed. Experts believe the ensuing security crackdown halted the violence but exacerbated underlying tensions.Amnesty International alleges that as many as 200 Uighurs were executed between 1997-99. Mark Allison, its East Asia researcher, says Uighurs have been punished for peaceful protests \u2014 or even cultural expression \u2014 as well as violent activity.\"What we have documented in the past is a much broader crackdown \u2014 particularly after September 11 and the global war on terror,\" he said.\"It's the only place in China where political prisoners are regularly sentenced to death and executed.\"Most analysts believe that yesterday's attack was timed to maximise publicity. But few believe that separatists will attack venues, spectators or athletes directly particularly given the intense security in Beijing and other host cities.The Chinese authorities allege they have disrupted several Olympics-related separatist plots, but have provided little evidence. Last week the army official in charge of security said Uighur separatists represented the greatest threat to the games, while Xinjiang's vice-governor said there were \"only a very small number of sabotage activities and many were nipped in the bud\".Andrew Gilholm, senior China analyst at the Control Risks consultancy, said the raid resembled attacks in the 90s, and did not indicate a newthreat. He added: \"Claims [of plots] have never been completely made up, but have probably often been exaggerated and misrepresented, at least from around 2002 until recently.\"As yet, no one has claimed responsibility. The state media reported that security officials suspected the East Turkestan Islamic Movement \u2014 often blamed for alleged plots \u2014 of planning pre-Olympic attacks. But Colin Mackerras, an expert on the region and emeritus professor at Griffith University, Australia, cautioned: \"There are quite a few groupsand the Chinese usually lump them all together as ETIM.\"Earlier this year Beijing also accused Hizb ut-Tahrir of planning raids; the group denied the claims, adding that since 2001 autocratic regimes hadused the \"war on terror\" as an excuse to clamp down on political opposition. In a recent video, three men who said they represented the little-known Turkestan Islamic Party threatened Olympic attacks and claimed responsibility for recent blasts in Chinese cities, but both the government and independent analysts doubt their involvement in those incidents. Some experts believe ETIM and TIP are one and the same.James Millward of Georgetown University in the US, an expert on Uighur separatism, has said he has yet to see evidence of a large, organised separatist or terrorist group.ETIM has been deemed a terrorist group by the UN and the US. But while there is evidence of links between ETIM and al-Qaida, most analysts believe those connections are historic and several believe they were exaggerated. Gilholm said that while the TIP claims did not appear credible, the method and rhetoric used to deliver the threat were worrying in themselves: \"Most of those [previous] groups have identified themselves as Uighur separatists, not as part of the wider Islamist terrorist agenda.\"", "tags": ["China", "Olympics 2008", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Q&A: Terrorism in China"},{"date": "2008-12-25T09:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Due to the Beijing Olympics and a string of unexpected headline-grabbing events, from the Tibet riots and Sichuan earthquake to the melamine milk scandal, this year has seen China garner an extraordinary amount of attention in the western media. There has been a clear contrast even with 2007, when China was also in the news a lot but there were still short periods without international headlines. In 2008, that just didn't happen.If this represents a departure from past precedent, there are two things about English-language discussions of China this year that carried forward ongoing traditions. One represents a disheartening long-term pattern, the other an encouraging recent trend.Let's get the bad news out of the way first. Much western commentary on China, especially as purveyed in media that depend heavily on sound bites and sensationalism, continued to fall into a familiar trap. Simplification of complicated Chinese phenomena was often the order of the day, as much coverage, especially of the Beijing games, swung between romanticising or demonising the country and its people. On the positive side, though, the year saw a bumper crop of unusually illuminating books of reportage. The four works I have in mind take widely varying approaches to contemporary China. What they have in common is that each is by someone with good Chinese language skills, has a long-term commitment to understanding China on its own terms, and has hit upon an interesting way to frame a book. Each offers readers a valuable opportunity to move beyond simplistic visions of China that downplay the diversity of the country and the complex nature of the social and cultural shifts its people are experiencing.Factory Girls by former Wall Street Journal correspondent Leslie T. Chang offers moving life stories and highly individualised portraits of workers the author befriended during visits to the massive industrial boomtown of Dongguan made over several years. The Last Days of Old Beijing, Michael Meyer's poignant, historically minded work, looks at life in a Chinese alleyway neighbourhood slated for destruction. It is based on the former Peace Corp volunteer's extended stay in the district, where he rented a cramped room that lacked indoor plumbing (but had an internet connection) and taught English for free (mostly to the children of migrant labourers) at a local elementary school.Out of Mao's Shadow, a model work of investigative political journalism by the Washington Post's Philip P Pan has many virtues, including that of introducing readers to the work and life of the daring documentary filmmaker Hu Jie and a Sichuan graveyard devoted to victims of Cultural Revolution violence. And finally, Smoke and Mirrors is Pallavi Aiyar's lively set of reflections on her experiences as the first Beijing-based Chinese-speaking correspondent for an Indian daily. Filled with amusing anecdotes, one of its strengths is the author's nuanced assessment of the contrasting attitudes toward manual labour, political expression, and gender in China and India. The appearance in a single year of four books this good\u2014and varied\u2014supports a claim that China specialist Robert Kapp made in a blog posting linked to the reissue of Graham Peck's classic 1950 memoir, Two Kinds of Time. Writing for \"The China Beat\" (an online publication that I helped found), Kapp asserted that we've recently entered a \"second golden age\" of English-language reportage writing on Chinese topics.The \"first golden age,\" in his view, began in the mid-1930s and ended with the appearance of Two Kinds of Time. The era witnessed the publication of many other memorable contributions to the genre, from Emily Hahn's China to Me, Jack Belden's China Shakes the World, and Annalee Jacoby and Theodore White's Thunder Out of China, to multiple titles by Edgar Snow, Agnes Smedley, and Carl Crow.I think Kapp is definitely onto something, even though it is possible to cite impressive works of China reportage that came out during the half-century following the publication of Two Kinds of Time. Throughout the 1980s and 1990s, for example, journalists and freelance writers would sometimes follow up trips to or long stays in China by writing smart and stylish books that had important things to say.In the last few years, though, there has been a notable acceleration in how often such books appear. Take 2005: the year saw the publication of Ian Johnson's Wild Grass, a superb work of dissent-focused reportage. Also published that year was The Changing Face of China, the latest in a series of thoughtful books on Chinese themes by long-time Guardian correspondent John Gittings. In 2006, readers who wanted a deeper understanding of China could turn to three impressive books of reportage: Peter Hessler's elegantly turned Oracle Bones: A Journey Between China's Past and Present, John Pomfrett's often moving Chinese Lessons: Five Classmates and the Story of the New China, and James Kynge's wide-ranging China Shakes the World: The Rise of a Hungry Nation. The next year, 2007, was perhaps not quite as rich a year for works of China reportage, but the general trend continued. It saw the appearance of both former Guardian correspondent Duncan Hewitt's Getting Rich First and Rob Gifford's China Road, each of which offered engaging looks at shifts in the PRC between the mid-1980s, when their authors first spent time in the country, and the present. Even measured against the years immediately preceding it, however, this has been a special year. The sheer range of topics covered and varieties of personal experiences the authors bring to their projects makes the \"Class of 2008\" made up of Chang, Meyer, Pan and Aiyar stand out from any that comes to mind from either the first or second \"golden ages\" of the genre.There is also something that makes these publications especially welcome to academics like myself: many of the authors involved, including Ian Johnson and Peter Hessler, find it natural when doing their research to read widely in the historical and social scientific scholarship on the issues that interest them.A final optimistic note is in order. Despite my comments above about the flaws of soundbite-driven discussions of China in 2008, throughout the year some excellent reporting on and commentaries about the country appeared in English-language publications, including The Guardian's print edition and Comment is Free. It could easily turn out that some of the most talented writers in the latest crop of savvy and thoughtful China-based journalists\u2014people like the New Yorker's Evan Osnos\u2014will end up coming up with book project as original and interesting as those of the Class of 2008. If so, the \"second golden age\" of reportage that Kapp imagined could continue for some time to come.", "tags": ["China", "Books", "Media", "Olympics 2008", "Olympics & the media", "Asia Pacific", "Olympics"], "title": "Jeffrey Wasserstrom: Looking at China in literature and the media"},{"date": "2008-12-25T09:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Due to the Beijing Olympics and a string of unexpected headline-grabbing events, from the Tibet riots and Sichuan earthquake to the melamine milk scandal, this year has seen China garner an extraordinary amount of attention in the western media. There has been a clear contrast even with 2007, when China was also in the news a lot but there were still short periods without international headlines. In 2008, that just didn't happen.If this represents a departure from past precedent, there are two things about English-language discussions of China this year that carried forward ongoing traditions. One represents a disheartening long-term pattern, the other an encouraging recent trend.Let's get the bad news out of the way first. Much western commentary on China, especially as purveyed in media that depend heavily on sound bites and sensationalism, continued to fall into a familiar trap. Simplification of complicated Chinese phenomena was often the order of the day, as much coverage, especially of the Beijing games, swung between romanticising or demonising the country and its people. On the positive side, though, the year saw a bumper crop of unusually illuminating books of reportage. The four works I have in mind take widely varying approaches to contemporary China. What they have in common is that each is by someone with good Chinese language skills, has a long-term commitment to understanding China on its own terms, and has hit upon an interesting way to frame a book. Each offers readers a valuable opportunity to move beyond simplistic visions of China that downplay the diversity of the country and the complex nature of the social and cultural shifts its people are experiencing.Factory Girls by former Wall Street Journal correspondent Leslie T. Chang offers moving life stories and highly individualised portraits of workers the author befriended during visits to the massive industrial boomtown of Dongguan made over several years. The Last Days of Old Beijing, Michael Meyer's poignant, historically minded work, looks at life in a Chinese alleyway neighbourhood slated for destruction. It is based on the former Peace Corp volunteer's extended stay in the district, where he rented a cramped room that lacked indoor plumbing (but had an internet connection) and taught English for free (mostly to the children of migrant labourers) at a local elementary school.Out of Mao's Shadow, a model work of investigative political journalism by the Washington Post's Philip P Pan has many virtues, including that of introducing readers to the work and life of the daring documentary filmmaker Hu Jie and a Sichuan graveyard devoted to victims of Cultural Revolution violence. And finally, Smoke and Mirrors is Pallavi Aiyar's lively set of reflections on her experiences as the first Beijing-based Chinese-speaking correspondent for an Indian daily. Filled with amusing anecdotes, one of its strengths is the author's nuanced assessment of the contrasting attitudes toward manual labour, political expression, and gender in China and India. The appearance in a single year of four books this good\u2014and varied\u2014supports a claim that China specialist Robert Kapp made in a blog posting linked to the reissue of Graham Peck's classic 1950 memoir, Two Kinds of Time. Writing for \"The China Beat\" (an online publication that I helped found), Kapp asserted that we've recently entered a \"second golden age\" of English-language reportage writing on Chinese topics.The \"first golden age,\" in his view, began in the mid-1930s and ended with the appearance of Two Kinds of Time. The era witnessed the publication of many other memorable contributions to the genre, from Emily Hahn's China to Me, Jack Belden's China Shakes the World, and Annalee Jacoby and Theodore White's Thunder Out of China, to multiple titles by Edgar Snow, Agnes Smedley, and Carl Crow.I think Kapp is definitely onto something, even though it is possible to cite impressive works of China reportage that came out during the half-century following the publication of Two Kinds of Time. Throughout the 1980s and 1990s, for example, journalists and freelance writers would sometimes follow up trips to or long stays in China by writing smart and stylish books that had important things to say.In the last few years, though, there has been a notable acceleration in how often such books appear. Take 2005: the year saw the publication of Ian Johnson's Wild Grass, a superb work of dissent-focused reportage. Also published that year was The Changing Face of China, the latest in a series of thoughtful books on Chinese themes by long-time Guardian correspondent John Gittings. In 2006, readers who wanted a deeper understanding of China could turn to three impressive books of reportage: Peter Hessler's elegantly turned Oracle Bones: A Journey Between China's Past and Present, John Pomfrett's often moving Chinese Lessons: Five Classmates and the Story of the New China, and James Kynge's wide-ranging China Shakes the World: The Rise of a Hungry Nation. The next year, 2007, was perhaps not quite as rich a year for works of China reportage, but the general trend continued. It saw the appearance of both former Guardian correspondent Duncan Hewitt's Getting Rich First and Rob Gifford's China Road, each of which offered engaging looks at shifts in the PRC between the mid-1980s, when their authors first spent time in the country, and the present. Even measured against the years immediately preceding it, however, this has been a special year. The sheer range of topics covered and varieties of personal experiences the authors bring to their projects makes the \"Class of 2008\" made up of Chang, Meyer, Pan and Aiyar stand out from any that comes to mind from either the first or second \"golden ages\" of the genre.There is also something that makes these publications especially welcome to academics like myself: many of the authors involved, including Ian Johnson and Peter Hessler, find it natural when doing their research to read widely in the historical and social scientific scholarship on the issues that interest them.A final optimistic note is in order. Despite my comments above about the flaws of soundbite-driven discussions of China in 2008, throughout the year some excellent reporting on and commentaries about the country appeared in English-language publications, including The Guardian's print edition and Comment is Free. It could easily turn out that some of the most talented writers in the latest crop of savvy and thoughtful China-based journalists\u2014people like the New Yorker's Evan Osnos\u2014will end up coming up with book project as original and interesting as those of the Class of 2008. If so, the \"second golden age\" of reportage that Kapp imagined could continue for some time to come.", "tags": ["China", "Books", "Media", "Olympics 2008", "Olympics & the media", "Asia Pacific", "Olympics"], "title": "Jeffrey Wasserstrom: Looking at China in literature and the media"},{"date": "2008-11-26T12:39:36Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has slashed interest rates and cut the amount of money banks must set aside as reserves, as it attempts to bolster the economy in the face of the worldwide slowdown.Today's 1.08 percentage point cut, to 5.58%, is the largest reduction for a decade, reflecting the government's increasing alarm at slipping growth rates and its keenness to ensure companies and consumers spend more. This year will end the country's half-decade run of double-digit growth and the World Bank yesterday cut its prediction for GDP growth next year from 9.2% to 7.5%, which would be the lowest rate since 1990.\"It's certainly a lot more aggressive than anything they've done recently. I think it speaks volumes about just how much China has slowed down,\" said Anthony Muh, Asia Pacific head with AT Asset Management in Hong Kong.Liu Dongliang, a currency analyst at China Merchants Bank in Shenzhen, told Reuters: \"All my colleagues were shocked by such a big easing.\"Officials unveiled a 4 trillion yuan (\u00a3385bn) stimulus package earlier this month, but it has since emerged that only around a third of the money will come from the central government. The rest is expected to come from local authorities and private investment and the authorities are keen to see banks increase their lending to struggling enterprises.The central bank cut interest on a one-year loan by 1.08 percentage points, to 5.58%; the largest cut in the lending rate since October 1997. The deposit rate will fall to 2.52%, the biggest cut since June 1999. The reserve requirement rate for the largest banks will fall by 1 percentage point to 15.5%, while that for smaller banks will fall by 2 percentage points to 14.5%. The People's Bank of China said the measures, which take effect tomorrow, are meant to ensure sufficient liquidity in the banking system to ensure growth. There have now been four interest rate cuts in two and a half months, reflecting a shift by policymakers from tackling inflation to supporting growth. The annual consumer inflation rate more than tripled last year to 4.8% despite six interest rate rises and 10 increases in banks' reserve requirements. But it peaked this spring and the central bank's vice governor Yi Gang said earlier this month that the threat of inflation had \"basically vanished\". Niu Li, senior economist at the government thinktank the State Information Centre, suggested the scale of the change would be crucial to its success, telling Reuters: \"Compared with a series of small steps, a one-off big move is more effective in boosting confidence.\"But Michael Pettis, professor of finance at Peking University, warned: \"This relieves pressure on companies with cash flow problems, but doesn't address the fundamental problem in the economy - lack of demand ... There is not tremendous demand producers can't fulfil because of the high cost of capital, but overcapacity.\"Recent months have seen a steep decline in export growth and analysts believe that next year may see exports actually fall. The government hopes to offset the problem by boosting domestic consumption, but many argue that it will take years to shift spending significantly.Stephen Green, head of China research at Standard Chartered, wrote in a note: \"The hope will be that this move will trigger more buying interest for homes, as well as support investment, both private as well as the coming wave of public projects. But rate policy in this environment is a marginal factor - businesses think about possible returns on investments, and households will look at house price prospects.\"", "tags": ["Global economy", "China", "Business", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China slashes interest rates"},{"date": "2008-12-25T09:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Due to the Beijing Olympics and a string of unexpected headline-grabbing events, from the Tibet riots and Sichuan earthquake to the melamine milk scandal, this year has seen China garner an extraordinary amount of attention in the western media. There has been a clear contrast even with 2007, when China was also in the news a lot but there were still short periods without international headlines. In 2008, that just didn't happen.If this represents a departure from past precedent, there are two things about English-language discussions of China this year that carried forward ongoing traditions. One represents a disheartening long-term pattern, the other an encouraging recent trend.Let's get the bad news out of the way first. Much western commentary on China, especially as purveyed in media that depend heavily on sound bites and sensationalism, continued to fall into a familiar trap. Simplification of complicated Chinese phenomena was often the order of the day, as much coverage, especially of the Beijing games, swung between romanticising or demonising the country and its people. On the positive side, though, the year saw a bumper crop of unusually illuminating books of reportage. The four works I have in mind take widely varying approaches to contemporary China. What they have in common is that each is by someone with good Chinese language skills, has a long-term commitment to understanding China on its own terms, and has hit upon an interesting way to frame a book. Each offers readers a valuable opportunity to move beyond simplistic visions of China that downplay the diversity of the country and the complex nature of the social and cultural shifts its people are experiencing.Factory Girls by former Wall Street Journal correspondent Leslie T. Chang offers moving life stories and highly individualised portraits of workers the author befriended during visits to the massive industrial boomtown of Dongguan made over several years. The Last Days of Old Beijing, Michael Meyer's poignant, historically minded work, looks at life in a Chinese alleyway neighbourhood slated for destruction. It is based on the former Peace Corp volunteer's extended stay in the district, where he rented a cramped room that lacked indoor plumbing (but had an internet connection) and taught English for free (mostly to the children of migrant labourers) at a local elementary school.Out of Mao's Shadow, a model work of investigative political journalism by the Washington Post's Philip P Pan has many virtues, including that of introducing readers to the work and life of the daring documentary filmmaker Hu Jie and a Sichuan graveyard devoted to victims of Cultural Revolution violence. And finally, Smoke and Mirrors is Pallavi Aiyar's lively set of reflections on her experiences as the first Beijing-based Chinese-speaking correspondent for an Indian daily. Filled with amusing anecdotes, one of its strengths is the author's nuanced assessment of the contrasting attitudes toward manual labour, political expression, and gender in China and India. The appearance in a single year of four books this good\u2014and varied\u2014supports a claim that China specialist Robert Kapp made in a blog posting linked to the reissue of Graham Peck's classic 1950 memoir, Two Kinds of Time. Writing for \"The China Beat\" (an online publication that I helped found), Kapp asserted that we've recently entered a \"second golden age\" of English-language reportage writing on Chinese topics.The \"first golden age,\" in his view, began in the mid-1930s and ended with the appearance of Two Kinds of Time. The era witnessed the publication of many other memorable contributions to the genre, from Emily Hahn's China to Me, Jack Belden's China Shakes the World, and Annalee Jacoby and Theodore White's Thunder Out of China, to multiple titles by Edgar Snow, Agnes Smedley, and Carl Crow.I think Kapp is definitely onto something, even though it is possible to cite impressive works of China reportage that came out during the half-century following the publication of Two Kinds of Time. Throughout the 1980s and 1990s, for example, journalists and freelance writers would sometimes follow up trips to or long stays in China by writing smart and stylish books that had important things to say.In the last few years, though, there has been a notable acceleration in how often such books appear. Take 2005: the year saw the publication of Ian Johnson's Wild Grass, a superb work of dissent-focused reportage. Also published that year was The Changing Face of China, the latest in a series of thoughtful books on Chinese themes by long-time Guardian correspondent John Gittings. In 2006, readers who wanted a deeper understanding of China could turn to three impressive books of reportage: Peter Hessler's elegantly turned Oracle Bones: A Journey Between China's Past and Present, John Pomfrett's often moving Chinese Lessons: Five Classmates and the Story of the New China, and James Kynge's wide-ranging China Shakes the World: The Rise of a Hungry Nation. The next year, 2007, was perhaps not quite as rich a year for works of China reportage, but the general trend continued. It saw the appearance of both former Guardian correspondent Duncan Hewitt's Getting Rich First and Rob Gifford's China Road, each of which offered engaging looks at shifts in the PRC between the mid-1980s, when their authors first spent time in the country, and the present. Even measured against the years immediately preceding it, however, this has been a special year. The sheer range of topics covered and varieties of personal experiences the authors bring to their projects makes the \"Class of 2008\" made up of Chang, Meyer, Pan and Aiyar stand out from any that comes to mind from either the first or second \"golden ages\" of the genre.There is also something that makes these publications especially welcome to academics like myself: many of the authors involved, including Ian Johnson and Peter Hessler, find it natural when doing their research to read widely in the historical and social scientific scholarship on the issues that interest them.A final optimistic note is in order. Despite my comments above about the flaws of soundbite-driven discussions of China in 2008, throughout the year some excellent reporting on and commentaries about the country appeared in English-language publications, including The Guardian's print edition and Comment is Free. It could easily turn out that some of the most talented writers in the latest crop of savvy and thoughtful China-based journalists\u2014people like the New Yorker's Evan Osnos\u2014will end up coming up with book project as original and interesting as those of the Class of 2008. If so, the \"second golden age\" of reportage that Kapp imagined could continue for some time to come.", "tags": ["China", "Books", "Media", "Olympics 2008", "Olympics & the media", "Asia Pacific", "Olympics"], "title": "Jeffrey Wasserstrom: Looking at China in literature and the media"},{"date": "2008-11-26T12:39:36Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has slashed interest rates and cut the amount of money banks must set aside as reserves, as it attempts to bolster the economy in the face of the worldwide slowdown.Today's 1.08 percentage point cut, to 5.58%, is the largest reduction for a decade, reflecting the government's increasing alarm at slipping growth rates and its keenness to ensure companies and consumers spend more. This year will end the country's half-decade run of double-digit growth and the World Bank yesterday cut its prediction for GDP growth next year from 9.2% to 7.5%, which would be the lowest rate since 1990.\"It's certainly a lot more aggressive than anything they've done recently. I think it speaks volumes about just how much China has slowed down,\" said Anthony Muh, Asia Pacific head with AT Asset Management in Hong Kong.Liu Dongliang, a currency analyst at China Merchants Bank in Shenzhen, told Reuters: \"All my colleagues were shocked by such a big easing.\"Officials unveiled a 4 trillion yuan (\u00a3385bn) stimulus package earlier this month, but it has since emerged that only around a third of the money will come from the central government. The rest is expected to come from local authorities and private investment and the authorities are keen to see banks increase their lending to struggling enterprises.The central bank cut interest on a one-year loan by 1.08 percentage points, to 5.58%; the largest cut in the lending rate since October 1997. The deposit rate will fall to 2.52%, the biggest cut since June 1999. The reserve requirement rate for the largest banks will fall by 1 percentage point to 15.5%, while that for smaller banks will fall by 2 percentage points to 14.5%. The People's Bank of China said the measures, which take effect tomorrow, are meant to ensure sufficient liquidity in the banking system to ensure growth. There have now been four interest rate cuts in two and a half months, reflecting a shift by policymakers from tackling inflation to supporting growth. The annual consumer inflation rate more than tripled last year to 4.8% despite six interest rate rises and 10 increases in banks' reserve requirements. But it peaked this spring and the central bank's vice governor Yi Gang said earlier this month that the threat of inflation had \"basically vanished\". Niu Li, senior economist at the government thinktank the State Information Centre, suggested the scale of the change would be crucial to its success, telling Reuters: \"Compared with a series of small steps, a one-off big move is more effective in boosting confidence.\"But Michael Pettis, professor of finance at Peking University, warned: \"This relieves pressure on companies with cash flow problems, but doesn't address the fundamental problem in the economy - lack of demand ... There is not tremendous demand producers can't fulfil because of the high cost of capital, but overcapacity.\"Recent months have seen a steep decline in export growth and analysts believe that next year may see exports actually fall. The government hopes to offset the problem by boosting domestic consumption, but many argue that it will take years to shift spending significantly.Stephen Green, head of China research at Standard Chartered, wrote in a note: \"The hope will be that this move will trigger more buying interest for homes, as well as support investment, both private as well as the coming wave of public projects. But rate policy in this environment is a marginal factor - businesses think about possible returns on investments, and households will look at house price prospects.\"", "tags": ["Global economy", "China", "Business", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China slashes interest rates"},{"date": "2008-10-23T07:00:15Z", "country": "china", "content": "For my work, I need to check websites for news and information regularly. And every time I travelled to mainland China, I would often do the same, until I saw the blank page or time-out error message on the screen. Not being able to access some sites reminded me of where I was. Last month, when I was back in Hong Kong after a month spent in Beijing reporting the Olympic games, I found I automatically didn't visit those sites, and even when I did, I half-expected a blank screen to pop up.I believe many people who travel frequently to and from China have similar experiences. When I was stationed in Beijing for two years, I found the inability to access information freely often hindered my work. I felt helpless when my manager demanded to know why I hadn't reacted to certain news because, even if the news happened nearby, I had no way of knowing. My journalist colleagues shared the same burden. Eventually our HQ had to accept using material from foreign media to report domestic events in China.Many people in Hong Kong who complain about aspects of their daily lives would recognise that the country provides two fundamental things for ordinary people: security and freedom. People feel secure because they trust law and order and they feel free because information flows freely here.So if a law is used in such a way that it violates the freedom of citizens to access information, then we have the right to question whether that law is necessary, even if we trust the lawmaker's intention to protect. Earlier this month, the Hong Kong SAR (special administration region) government published a consultation paper on the comprehensive review of the control of obscene and indecent articles ordinance (COIAO). In the section concerning new media, it proposes that ISPs place filtering software to block obscene and indecent materials. It sounds reasonable: a government seeking to protect children and young people from pornographic and violent materials. But the proposal prompts many questions. Who is to decide which contents are pornographic or violent? How do you distinguish between adults and the under-aged? How do you protect adults' freedoms? Most importantly, how do you prevent this power being abused for political motives?The government insists the consultation is transparent and welcomes citizens' input. However, reading the proposal, one can't help but think this is a document giving the administration the power and convenience to establish an order whenever it deems it necessary. What worries people is the government mentality behind this. Clearly, it doesn't trust its own citizens. People fear this attempt to impose regulation on the internet is just the beginning. The government is behaving like a parent who has lost confidence in communication and education, and chosen instead to impose strict rules. At the beginning of the chapter New Forms of Media, the consultation paper claims:Given the emergence of new forms of media, particularly the growing popularity of the Internet, members of the public consider it important that measures are taken to protect youngsters from the dissemination of obscene and indecent materials on such new media systems.Who are the \"members of the public\"? Can the government claim they speak for the public? Do the public, especially children, as the government imagines; need new protection imposed by the authorities, from indecent materials?The authorities would be better advised to surf the internet more often and learn how people in Hong Kong use the web. People can seek and find the real obscene and indecent materials themselves, or through their circles. But do the same materials spread so quickly only because of the existence of the internet? In reality, similar materials are already easily available in Hong Kong. There are special fengyue (erotica) sections in some of the newspapers. There are adult magazines, wrapped in black plastic bags, available in most newsagents. There was no way to avoid them, even before the internet age. If the government wants to protect children and young people, they should equip our youngsters with the ability to make better judgments themselves with the help of communities, parents and schools.As a citizen of Hong Kong, what I don't want to see is, one day, when I click a link to a website, a blank page. We may not like certain sites, but we don't want to give the government the right to decide for us which sites we should and should not visit. If even this right is removed, what is the justification for \"one country, two systems\"?This article first appeared, in Chinese, here.", "tags": ["China", "UK civil liberties", "Internet", "Internet IPOs", "World news", "Censorship", "Technology", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Rose Luqiu Luwei: China's desire to impose internet regulation masks a need to check its citizens' freedom"},{"date": "2008-12-25T09:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Due to the Beijing Olympics and a string of unexpected headline-grabbing events, from the Tibet riots and Sichuan earthquake to the melamine milk scandal, this year has seen China garner an extraordinary amount of attention in the western media. There has been a clear contrast even with 2007, when China was also in the news a lot but there were still short periods without international headlines. In 2008, that just didn't happen.If this represents a departure from past precedent, there are two things about English-language discussions of China this year that carried forward ongoing traditions. One represents a disheartening long-term pattern, the other an encouraging recent trend.Let's get the bad news out of the way first. Much western commentary on China, especially as purveyed in media that depend heavily on sound bites and sensationalism, continued to fall into a familiar trap. Simplification of complicated Chinese phenomena was often the order of the day, as much coverage, especially of the Beijing games, swung between romanticising or demonising the country and its people. On the positive side, though, the year saw a bumper crop of unusually illuminating books of reportage. The four works I have in mind take widely varying approaches to contemporary China. What they have in common is that each is by someone with good Chinese language skills, has a long-term commitment to understanding China on its own terms, and has hit upon an interesting way to frame a book. Each offers readers a valuable opportunity to move beyond simplistic visions of China that downplay the diversity of the country and the complex nature of the social and cultural shifts its people are experiencing.Factory Girls by former Wall Street Journal correspondent Leslie T. Chang offers moving life stories and highly individualised portraits of workers the author befriended during visits to the massive industrial boomtown of Dongguan made over several years. The Last Days of Old Beijing, Michael Meyer's poignant, historically minded work, looks at life in a Chinese alleyway neighbourhood slated for destruction. It is based on the former Peace Corp volunteer's extended stay in the district, where he rented a cramped room that lacked indoor plumbing (but had an internet connection) and taught English for free (mostly to the children of migrant labourers) at a local elementary school.Out of Mao's Shadow, a model work of investigative political journalism by the Washington Post's Philip P Pan has many virtues, including that of introducing readers to the work and life of the daring documentary filmmaker Hu Jie and a Sichuan graveyard devoted to victims of Cultural Revolution violence. And finally, Smoke and Mirrors is Pallavi Aiyar's lively set of reflections on her experiences as the first Beijing-based Chinese-speaking correspondent for an Indian daily. Filled with amusing anecdotes, one of its strengths is the author's nuanced assessment of the contrasting attitudes toward manual labour, political expression, and gender in China and India. The appearance in a single year of four books this good\u2014and varied\u2014supports a claim that China specialist Robert Kapp made in a blog posting linked to the reissue of Graham Peck's classic 1950 memoir, Two Kinds of Time. Writing for \"The China Beat\" (an online publication that I helped found), Kapp asserted that we've recently entered a \"second golden age\" of English-language reportage writing on Chinese topics.The \"first golden age,\" in his view, began in the mid-1930s and ended with the appearance of Two Kinds of Time. The era witnessed the publication of many other memorable contributions to the genre, from Emily Hahn's China to Me, Jack Belden's China Shakes the World, and Annalee Jacoby and Theodore White's Thunder Out of China, to multiple titles by Edgar Snow, Agnes Smedley, and Carl Crow.I think Kapp is definitely onto something, even though it is possible to cite impressive works of China reportage that came out during the half-century following the publication of Two Kinds of Time. Throughout the 1980s and 1990s, for example, journalists and freelance writers would sometimes follow up trips to or long stays in China by writing smart and stylish books that had important things to say.In the last few years, though, there has been a notable acceleration in how often such books appear. Take 2005: the year saw the publication of Ian Johnson's Wild Grass, a superb work of dissent-focused reportage. Also published that year was The Changing Face of China, the latest in a series of thoughtful books on Chinese themes by long-time Guardian correspondent John Gittings. In 2006, readers who wanted a deeper understanding of China could turn to three impressive books of reportage: Peter Hessler's elegantly turned Oracle Bones: A Journey Between China's Past and Present, John Pomfrett's often moving Chinese Lessons: Five Classmates and the Story of the New China, and James Kynge's wide-ranging China Shakes the World: The Rise of a Hungry Nation. The next year, 2007, was perhaps not quite as rich a year for works of China reportage, but the general trend continued. It saw the appearance of both former Guardian correspondent Duncan Hewitt's Getting Rich First and Rob Gifford's China Road, each of which offered engaging looks at shifts in the PRC between the mid-1980s, when their authors first spent time in the country, and the present. Even measured against the years immediately preceding it, however, this has been a special year. The sheer range of topics covered and varieties of personal experiences the authors bring to their projects makes the \"Class of 2008\" made up of Chang, Meyer, Pan and Aiyar stand out from any that comes to mind from either the first or second \"golden ages\" of the genre.There is also something that makes these publications especially welcome to academics like myself: many of the authors involved, including Ian Johnson and Peter Hessler, find it natural when doing their research to read widely in the historical and social scientific scholarship on the issues that interest them.A final optimistic note is in order. Despite my comments above about the flaws of soundbite-driven discussions of China in 2008, throughout the year some excellent reporting on and commentaries about the country appeared in English-language publications, including The Guardian's print edition and Comment is Free. It could easily turn out that some of the most talented writers in the latest crop of savvy and thoughtful China-based journalists\u2014people like the New Yorker's Evan Osnos\u2014will end up coming up with book project as original and interesting as those of the Class of 2008. If so, the \"second golden age\" of reportage that Kapp imagined could continue for some time to come.", "tags": ["China", "Books", "Media", "Olympics 2008", "Olympics & the media", "Asia Pacific", "Olympics"], "title": "Jeffrey Wasserstrom: Looking at China in literature and the media"},{"date": "2008-11-26T12:39:36Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has slashed interest rates and cut the amount of money banks must set aside as reserves, as it attempts to bolster the economy in the face of the worldwide slowdown.Today's 1.08 percentage point cut, to 5.58%, is the largest reduction for a decade, reflecting the government's increasing alarm at slipping growth rates and its keenness to ensure companies and consumers spend more. This year will end the country's half-decade run of double-digit growth and the World Bank yesterday cut its prediction for GDP growth next year from 9.2% to 7.5%, which would be the lowest rate since 1990.\"It's certainly a lot more aggressive than anything they've done recently. I think it speaks volumes about just how much China has slowed down,\" said Anthony Muh, Asia Pacific head with AT Asset Management in Hong Kong.Liu Dongliang, a currency analyst at China Merchants Bank in Shenzhen, told Reuters: \"All my colleagues were shocked by such a big easing.\"Officials unveiled a 4 trillion yuan (\u00a3385bn) stimulus package earlier this month, but it has since emerged that only around a third of the money will come from the central government. The rest is expected to come from local authorities and private investment and the authorities are keen to see banks increase their lending to struggling enterprises.The central bank cut interest on a one-year loan by 1.08 percentage points, to 5.58%; the largest cut in the lending rate since October 1997. The deposit rate will fall to 2.52%, the biggest cut since June 1999. The reserve requirement rate for the largest banks will fall by 1 percentage point to 15.5%, while that for smaller banks will fall by 2 percentage points to 14.5%. The People's Bank of China said the measures, which take effect tomorrow, are meant to ensure sufficient liquidity in the banking system to ensure growth. There have now been four interest rate cuts in two and a half months, reflecting a shift by policymakers from tackling inflation to supporting growth. The annual consumer inflation rate more than tripled last year to 4.8% despite six interest rate rises and 10 increases in banks' reserve requirements. But it peaked this spring and the central bank's vice governor Yi Gang said earlier this month that the threat of inflation had \"basically vanished\". Niu Li, senior economist at the government thinktank the State Information Centre, suggested the scale of the change would be crucial to its success, telling Reuters: \"Compared with a series of small steps, a one-off big move is more effective in boosting confidence.\"But Michael Pettis, professor of finance at Peking University, warned: \"This relieves pressure on companies with cash flow problems, but doesn't address the fundamental problem in the economy - lack of demand ... There is not tremendous demand producers can't fulfil because of the high cost of capital, but overcapacity.\"Recent months have seen a steep decline in export growth and analysts believe that next year may see exports actually fall. The government hopes to offset the problem by boosting domestic consumption, but many argue that it will take years to shift spending significantly.Stephen Green, head of China research at Standard Chartered, wrote in a note: \"The hope will be that this move will trigger more buying interest for homes, as well as support investment, both private as well as the coming wave of public projects. But rate policy in this environment is a marginal factor - businesses think about possible returns on investments, and households will look at house price prospects.\"", "tags": ["Global economy", "China", "Business", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China slashes interest rates"},{"date": "2008-10-23T07:00:15Z", "country": "china", "content": "For my work, I need to check websites for news and information regularly. And every time I travelled to mainland China, I would often do the same, until I saw the blank page or time-out error message on the screen. Not being able to access some sites reminded me of where I was. Last month, when I was back in Hong Kong after a month spent in Beijing reporting the Olympic games, I found I automatically didn't visit those sites, and even when I did, I half-expected a blank screen to pop up.I believe many people who travel frequently to and from China have similar experiences. When I was stationed in Beijing for two years, I found the inability to access information freely often hindered my work. I felt helpless when my manager demanded to know why I hadn't reacted to certain news because, even if the news happened nearby, I had no way of knowing. My journalist colleagues shared the same burden. Eventually our HQ had to accept using material from foreign media to report domestic events in China.Many people in Hong Kong who complain about aspects of their daily lives would recognise that the country provides two fundamental things for ordinary people: security and freedom. People feel secure because they trust law and order and they feel free because information flows freely here.So if a law is used in such a way that it violates the freedom of citizens to access information, then we have the right to question whether that law is necessary, even if we trust the lawmaker's intention to protect. Earlier this month, the Hong Kong SAR (special administration region) government published a consultation paper on the comprehensive review of the control of obscene and indecent articles ordinance (COIAO). In the section concerning new media, it proposes that ISPs place filtering software to block obscene and indecent materials. It sounds reasonable: a government seeking to protect children and young people from pornographic and violent materials. But the proposal prompts many questions. Who is to decide which contents are pornographic or violent? How do you distinguish between adults and the under-aged? How do you protect adults' freedoms? Most importantly, how do you prevent this power being abused for political motives?The government insists the consultation is transparent and welcomes citizens' input. However, reading the proposal, one can't help but think this is a document giving the administration the power and convenience to establish an order whenever it deems it necessary. What worries people is the government mentality behind this. Clearly, it doesn't trust its own citizens. People fear this attempt to impose regulation on the internet is just the beginning. The government is behaving like a parent who has lost confidence in communication and education, and chosen instead to impose strict rules. At the beginning of the chapter New Forms of Media, the consultation paper claims:Given the emergence of new forms of media, particularly the growing popularity of the Internet, members of the public consider it important that measures are taken to protect youngsters from the dissemination of obscene and indecent materials on such new media systems.Who are the \"members of the public\"? Can the government claim they speak for the public? Do the public, especially children, as the government imagines; need new protection imposed by the authorities, from indecent materials?The authorities would be better advised to surf the internet more often and learn how people in Hong Kong use the web. People can seek and find the real obscene and indecent materials themselves, or through their circles. But do the same materials spread so quickly only because of the existence of the internet? In reality, similar materials are already easily available in Hong Kong. There are special fengyue (erotica) sections in some of the newspapers. There are adult magazines, wrapped in black plastic bags, available in most newsagents. There was no way to avoid them, even before the internet age. If the government wants to protect children and young people, they should equip our youngsters with the ability to make better judgments themselves with the help of communities, parents and schools.As a citizen of Hong Kong, what I don't want to see is, one day, when I click a link to a website, a blank page. We may not like certain sites, but we don't want to give the government the right to decide for us which sites we should and should not visit. If even this right is removed, what is the justification for \"one country, two systems\"?This article first appeared, in Chinese, here.", "tags": ["China", "UK civil liberties", "Internet", "Internet IPOs", "World news", "Censorship", "Technology", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Rose Luqiu Luwei: China's desire to impose internet regulation masks a need to check its citizens' freedom"},{"date": "2008-10-14T23:01:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "In the 63 years since he was created, Thomas the Tank Engine has travelled a long way from a branch line on the Island of Sodor. But the \"cheeky little engine\" is still entering uncharted territory, after a new deal was signed to export the children's television programme to China for the first time.The rights to four series of Thomas and Friends, already broadcast in more than 185 countries around the world, have been sold to Chinese state broadcaster CCTV by licensing company HIT Entertainment.It is the first deal between HIT, which also owns the rights to a host of other popular characters including Barney the Dinosaur and Bob the Builder, and a Chinese broadcaster. The country is seen as a potentially huge growth area by intellectual property groups that hold the rights to some of the best-known children's characters. Alison Homewood, HIT's executive vice president for worldwide TV distribution, said the show was \"one of the world's most popular and unique properties in the pre-school market\". The company has also appointed a licensing agent in China that will sign deals to produce toys and other spin offs. Publisher Egmont will produce a series of story books to tie in with the show. More than 200m books and more than 80m Thomas DVDs have been sold to date. The character was invented by the Rev W Awdry for his son Christopher and was given a new lease of life in 1984 with the introduction of the TV series, narrated by former Beatle Ringo Starr. The deal is one of hundreds that will be signed this week between broadcasters at the Mipcom TV festival in Cannes. BBC Worldwide, the corporation's commercial arm, unveiled a deal to make a Russian version of Top Gear.", "tags": ["Television industry", "Television", "China", "Media", "World news", "Television & radio", "TV merchandising", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Thomas the Tank Engine heads for China"},{"date": "2008-12-25T09:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Due to the Beijing Olympics and a string of unexpected headline-grabbing events, from the Tibet riots and Sichuan earthquake to the melamine milk scandal, this year has seen China garner an extraordinary amount of attention in the western media. There has been a clear contrast even with 2007, when China was also in the news a lot but there were still short periods without international headlines. In 2008, that just didn't happen.If this represents a departure from past precedent, there are two things about English-language discussions of China this year that carried forward ongoing traditions. One represents a disheartening long-term pattern, the other an encouraging recent trend.Let's get the bad news out of the way first. Much western commentary on China, especially as purveyed in media that depend heavily on sound bites and sensationalism, continued to fall into a familiar trap. Simplification of complicated Chinese phenomena was often the order of the day, as much coverage, especially of the Beijing games, swung between romanticising or demonising the country and its people. On the positive side, though, the year saw a bumper crop of unusually illuminating books of reportage. The four works I have in mind take widely varying approaches to contemporary China. What they have in common is that each is by someone with good Chinese language skills, has a long-term commitment to understanding China on its own terms, and has hit upon an interesting way to frame a book. Each offers readers a valuable opportunity to move beyond simplistic visions of China that downplay the diversity of the country and the complex nature of the social and cultural shifts its people are experiencing.Factory Girls by former Wall Street Journal correspondent Leslie T. Chang offers moving life stories and highly individualised portraits of workers the author befriended during visits to the massive industrial boomtown of Dongguan made over several years. The Last Days of Old Beijing, Michael Meyer's poignant, historically minded work, looks at life in a Chinese alleyway neighbourhood slated for destruction. It is based on the former Peace Corp volunteer's extended stay in the district, where he rented a cramped room that lacked indoor plumbing (but had an internet connection) and taught English for free (mostly to the children of migrant labourers) at a local elementary school.Out of Mao's Shadow, a model work of investigative political journalism by the Washington Post's Philip P Pan has many virtues, including that of introducing readers to the work and life of the daring documentary filmmaker Hu Jie and a Sichuan graveyard devoted to victims of Cultural Revolution violence. And finally, Smoke and Mirrors is Pallavi Aiyar's lively set of reflections on her experiences as the first Beijing-based Chinese-speaking correspondent for an Indian daily. Filled with amusing anecdotes, one of its strengths is the author's nuanced assessment of the contrasting attitudes toward manual labour, political expression, and gender in China and India. The appearance in a single year of four books this good\u2014and varied\u2014supports a claim that China specialist Robert Kapp made in a blog posting linked to the reissue of Graham Peck's classic 1950 memoir, Two Kinds of Time. Writing for \"The China Beat\" (an online publication that I helped found), Kapp asserted that we've recently entered a \"second golden age\" of English-language reportage writing on Chinese topics.The \"first golden age,\" in his view, began in the mid-1930s and ended with the appearance of Two Kinds of Time. The era witnessed the publication of many other memorable contributions to the genre, from Emily Hahn's China to Me, Jack Belden's China Shakes the World, and Annalee Jacoby and Theodore White's Thunder Out of China, to multiple titles by Edgar Snow, Agnes Smedley, and Carl Crow.I think Kapp is definitely onto something, even though it is possible to cite impressive works of China reportage that came out during the half-century following the publication of Two Kinds of Time. Throughout the 1980s and 1990s, for example, journalists and freelance writers would sometimes follow up trips to or long stays in China by writing smart and stylish books that had important things to say.In the last few years, though, there has been a notable acceleration in how often such books appear. Take 2005: the year saw the publication of Ian Johnson's Wild Grass, a superb work of dissent-focused reportage. Also published that year was The Changing Face of China, the latest in a series of thoughtful books on Chinese themes by long-time Guardian correspondent John Gittings. In 2006, readers who wanted a deeper understanding of China could turn to three impressive books of reportage: Peter Hessler's elegantly turned Oracle Bones: A Journey Between China's Past and Present, John Pomfrett's often moving Chinese Lessons: Five Classmates and the Story of the New China, and James Kynge's wide-ranging China Shakes the World: The Rise of a Hungry Nation. The next year, 2007, was perhaps not quite as rich a year for works of China reportage, but the general trend continued. It saw the appearance of both former Guardian correspondent Duncan Hewitt's Getting Rich First and Rob Gifford's China Road, each of which offered engaging looks at shifts in the PRC between the mid-1980s, when their authors first spent time in the country, and the present. Even measured against the years immediately preceding it, however, this has been a special year. The sheer range of topics covered and varieties of personal experiences the authors bring to their projects makes the \"Class of 2008\" made up of Chang, Meyer, Pan and Aiyar stand out from any that comes to mind from either the first or second \"golden ages\" of the genre.There is also something that makes these publications especially welcome to academics like myself: many of the authors involved, including Ian Johnson and Peter Hessler, find it natural when doing their research to read widely in the historical and social scientific scholarship on the issues that interest them.A final optimistic note is in order. Despite my comments above about the flaws of soundbite-driven discussions of China in 2008, throughout the year some excellent reporting on and commentaries about the country appeared in English-language publications, including The Guardian's print edition and Comment is Free. It could easily turn out that some of the most talented writers in the latest crop of savvy and thoughtful China-based journalists\u2014people like the New Yorker's Evan Osnos\u2014will end up coming up with book project as original and interesting as those of the Class of 2008. If so, the \"second golden age\" of reportage that Kapp imagined could continue for some time to come.", "tags": ["China", "Books", "Media", "Olympics 2008", "Olympics & the media", "Asia Pacific", "Olympics"], "title": "Jeffrey Wasserstrom: Looking at China in literature and the media"},{"date": "2008-11-26T12:39:36Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has slashed interest rates and cut the amount of money banks must set aside as reserves, as it attempts to bolster the economy in the face of the worldwide slowdown.Today's 1.08 percentage point cut, to 5.58%, is the largest reduction for a decade, reflecting the government's increasing alarm at slipping growth rates and its keenness to ensure companies and consumers spend more. This year will end the country's half-decade run of double-digit growth and the World Bank yesterday cut its prediction for GDP growth next year from 9.2% to 7.5%, which would be the lowest rate since 1990.\"It's certainly a lot more aggressive than anything they've done recently. I think it speaks volumes about just how much China has slowed down,\" said Anthony Muh, Asia Pacific head with AT Asset Management in Hong Kong.Liu Dongliang, a currency analyst at China Merchants Bank in Shenzhen, told Reuters: \"All my colleagues were shocked by such a big easing.\"Officials unveiled a 4 trillion yuan (\u00a3385bn) stimulus package earlier this month, but it has since emerged that only around a third of the money will come from the central government. The rest is expected to come from local authorities and private investment and the authorities are keen to see banks increase their lending to struggling enterprises.The central bank cut interest on a one-year loan by 1.08 percentage points, to 5.58%; the largest cut in the lending rate since October 1997. The deposit rate will fall to 2.52%, the biggest cut since June 1999. The reserve requirement rate for the largest banks will fall by 1 percentage point to 15.5%, while that for smaller banks will fall by 2 percentage points to 14.5%. The People's Bank of China said the measures, which take effect tomorrow, are meant to ensure sufficient liquidity in the banking system to ensure growth. There have now been four interest rate cuts in two and a half months, reflecting a shift by policymakers from tackling inflation to supporting growth. The annual consumer inflation rate more than tripled last year to 4.8% despite six interest rate rises and 10 increases in banks' reserve requirements. But it peaked this spring and the central bank's vice governor Yi Gang said earlier this month that the threat of inflation had \"basically vanished\". Niu Li, senior economist at the government thinktank the State Information Centre, suggested the scale of the change would be crucial to its success, telling Reuters: \"Compared with a series of small steps, a one-off big move is more effective in boosting confidence.\"But Michael Pettis, professor of finance at Peking University, warned: \"This relieves pressure on companies with cash flow problems, but doesn't address the fundamental problem in the economy - lack of demand ... There is not tremendous demand producers can't fulfil because of the high cost of capital, but overcapacity.\"Recent months have seen a steep decline in export growth and analysts believe that next year may see exports actually fall. The government hopes to offset the problem by boosting domestic consumption, but many argue that it will take years to shift spending significantly.Stephen Green, head of China research at Standard Chartered, wrote in a note: \"The hope will be that this move will trigger more buying interest for homes, as well as support investment, both private as well as the coming wave of public projects. But rate policy in this environment is a marginal factor - businesses think about possible returns on investments, and households will look at house price prospects.\"", "tags": ["Global economy", "China", "Business", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China slashes interest rates"},{"date": "2008-10-23T07:00:15Z", "country": "china", "content": "For my work, I need to check websites for news and information regularly. And every time I travelled to mainland China, I would often do the same, until I saw the blank page or time-out error message on the screen. Not being able to access some sites reminded me of where I was. Last month, when I was back in Hong Kong after a month spent in Beijing reporting the Olympic games, I found I automatically didn't visit those sites, and even when I did, I half-expected a blank screen to pop up.I believe many people who travel frequently to and from China have similar experiences. When I was stationed in Beijing for two years, I found the inability to access information freely often hindered my work. I felt helpless when my manager demanded to know why I hadn't reacted to certain news because, even if the news happened nearby, I had no way of knowing. My journalist colleagues shared the same burden. Eventually our HQ had to accept using material from foreign media to report domestic events in China.Many people in Hong Kong who complain about aspects of their daily lives would recognise that the country provides two fundamental things for ordinary people: security and freedom. People feel secure because they trust law and order and they feel free because information flows freely here.So if a law is used in such a way that it violates the freedom of citizens to access information, then we have the right to question whether that law is necessary, even if we trust the lawmaker's intention to protect. Earlier this month, the Hong Kong SAR (special administration region) government published a consultation paper on the comprehensive review of the control of obscene and indecent articles ordinance (COIAO). In the section concerning new media, it proposes that ISPs place filtering software to block obscene and indecent materials. It sounds reasonable: a government seeking to protect children and young people from pornographic and violent materials. But the proposal prompts many questions. Who is to decide which contents are pornographic or violent? How do you distinguish between adults and the under-aged? How do you protect adults' freedoms? Most importantly, how do you prevent this power being abused for political motives?The government insists the consultation is transparent and welcomes citizens' input. However, reading the proposal, one can't help but think this is a document giving the administration the power and convenience to establish an order whenever it deems it necessary. What worries people is the government mentality behind this. Clearly, it doesn't trust its own citizens. People fear this attempt to impose regulation on the internet is just the beginning. The government is behaving like a parent who has lost confidence in communication and education, and chosen instead to impose strict rules. At the beginning of the chapter New Forms of Media, the consultation paper claims:Given the emergence of new forms of media, particularly the growing popularity of the Internet, members of the public consider it important that measures are taken to protect youngsters from the dissemination of obscene and indecent materials on such new media systems.Who are the \"members of the public\"? Can the government claim they speak for the public? Do the public, especially children, as the government imagines; need new protection imposed by the authorities, from indecent materials?The authorities would be better advised to surf the internet more often and learn how people in Hong Kong use the web. People can seek and find the real obscene and indecent materials themselves, or through their circles. But do the same materials spread so quickly only because of the existence of the internet? In reality, similar materials are already easily available in Hong Kong. There are special fengyue (erotica) sections in some of the newspapers. There are adult magazines, wrapped in black plastic bags, available in most newsagents. There was no way to avoid them, even before the internet age. If the government wants to protect children and young people, they should equip our youngsters with the ability to make better judgments themselves with the help of communities, parents and schools.As a citizen of Hong Kong, what I don't want to see is, one day, when I click a link to a website, a blank page. We may not like certain sites, but we don't want to give the government the right to decide for us which sites we should and should not visit. If even this right is removed, what is the justification for \"one country, two systems\"?This article first appeared, in Chinese, here.", "tags": ["China", "UK civil liberties", "Internet", "Internet IPOs", "World news", "Censorship", "Technology", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Rose Luqiu Luwei: China's desire to impose internet regulation masks a need to check its citizens' freedom"},{"date": "2008-10-14T23:01:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "In the 63 years since he was created, Thomas the Tank Engine has travelled a long way from a branch line on the Island of Sodor. But the \"cheeky little engine\" is still entering uncharted territory, after a new deal was signed to export the children's television programme to China for the first time.The rights to four series of Thomas and Friends, already broadcast in more than 185 countries around the world, have been sold to Chinese state broadcaster CCTV by licensing company HIT Entertainment.It is the first deal between HIT, which also owns the rights to a host of other popular characters including Barney the Dinosaur and Bob the Builder, and a Chinese broadcaster. The country is seen as a potentially huge growth area by intellectual property groups that hold the rights to some of the best-known children's characters. Alison Homewood, HIT's executive vice president for worldwide TV distribution, said the show was \"one of the world's most popular and unique properties in the pre-school market\". The company has also appointed a licensing agent in China that will sign deals to produce toys and other spin offs. Publisher Egmont will produce a series of story books to tie in with the show. More than 200m books and more than 80m Thomas DVDs have been sold to date. The character was invented by the Rev W Awdry for his son Christopher and was given a new lease of life in 1984 with the introduction of the TV series, narrated by former Beatle Ringo Starr. The deal is one of hundreds that will be signed this week between broadcasters at the Mipcom TV festival in Cannes. BBC Worldwide, the corporation's commercial arm, unveiled a deal to make a Russian version of Top Gear.", "tags": ["Television industry", "Television", "China", "Media", "World news", "Television & radio", "TV merchandising", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Thomas the Tank Engine heads for China"},{"date": "2008-12-16T12:58:50Z", "country": "china", "content": "Chinese government officials have defended their decision to block several foreign news websites, including the BBC, as the country moves away from its pledge for uncensored internet access during the Beijing Olympics.The BBC, Voice of America, Hong Kong's Ming Pao News and Asiaweek have all had their websites blocked in China since early December. Restrictions had previously been lifted in August, when foreign journalists demanded full access during the Olympics.China's foreign ministry said today that it was within its rights to block sites that showed content illegal under the country's law. A foreign ministry spokesman, Liu Jianchao, said the Chinese government \"could not deny\" that it had issues with some sites.\"For instance, if a website refers to 'two Chinas' or refers to mainland China and Taiwan as two independent regions, we believe that violates China's anti-secession law, as well as other laws,\" Liu added.\"We hope that the relevant websites can comply with China's concerns and not do things contrary to Chinese law. This will help establish good co-operation between China and the relevant countries, as well as China and the relevant websites.\"China has previously blocked several high-profile websites but has not acknowledged an official ban, preferring to show users an error message for those sites instead.Access to the BBC's English-language site was briefly lifted in March, although the Chinese-language site remained blocked.A BBC spokeswoman said: \"We are disappointed that Chinese-speaking audiences in China are not able to get access to the BBC's impartial and editorially independent news and information through BBCChinese.com. In the runup to the 2008 Beijing Olympics, Chinese residents were able to have some access to BBCChinese.com but now there seem to be more difficulties in viewing the site. We will endeavour to continue working with the Chinese authorities to improve access for our Chinese-speaking audiences in China.\"Chinese authorities are understood to be far stricter with the Mandarin-language version of the BBC website at BBCChinese.com, which saw only slightly loosened restrictions during the Olympics. Both the BBC's Mandarin radio broadcasts and Mandarin-language site have been subject to restrictions, the latter for most of its 10-year existence.Online content is understood to be filtered by subject to web users in China, so news about Tibet or Chinese politics is censored.\"We're not surprised at this behaviour from the Chinese government,\" said a spokesman for the press freedom group Reporters Sans Fronti\u00e8res. \"The figures for Chinese control of the web are appalling. We were trying to raise awareness of this during the Olympics and even then it was very difficult to gain access to some sites, let alone for journalists travelling in China.\"The Foreign Correspondents Club of China said it had recorded 177 cases of journalists being obstructed in their work since the start of 2008, including Christian Science Monitor reporter Peter Ford being arrested after covering a Protestant prayer meeting in Henan province.RSF ranks China 167th out of the world's 173 countries for its record on press freedom. Only Vietnam, Cuba, Burma, Turkmenistan, North Korea and Eritrea rank lower.China recently overtook the US as the world's biggest internet market with an estimated 253 million web users, according to Internet World Stats.\u2022\u00a0To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.\u2022 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".", "tags": ["Digital media", "Media", "China", "World news", "Censorship", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China defends latest web censorship"},{"date": "2008-12-25T09:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Due to the Beijing Olympics and a string of unexpected headline-grabbing events, from the Tibet riots and Sichuan earthquake to the melamine milk scandal, this year has seen China garner an extraordinary amount of attention in the western media. There has been a clear contrast even with 2007, when China was also in the news a lot but there were still short periods without international headlines. In 2008, that just didn't happen.If this represents a departure from past precedent, there are two things about English-language discussions of China this year that carried forward ongoing traditions. One represents a disheartening long-term pattern, the other an encouraging recent trend.Let's get the bad news out of the way first. Much western commentary on China, especially as purveyed in media that depend heavily on sound bites and sensationalism, continued to fall into a familiar trap. Simplification of complicated Chinese phenomena was often the order of the day, as much coverage, especially of the Beijing games, swung between romanticising or demonising the country and its people. On the positive side, though, the year saw a bumper crop of unusually illuminating books of reportage. The four works I have in mind take widely varying approaches to contemporary China. What they have in common is that each is by someone with good Chinese language skills, has a long-term commitment to understanding China on its own terms, and has hit upon an interesting way to frame a book. Each offers readers a valuable opportunity to move beyond simplistic visions of China that downplay the diversity of the country and the complex nature of the social and cultural shifts its people are experiencing.Factory Girls by former Wall Street Journal correspondent Leslie T. Chang offers moving life stories and highly individualised portraits of workers the author befriended during visits to the massive industrial boomtown of Dongguan made over several years. The Last Days of Old Beijing, Michael Meyer's poignant, historically minded work, looks at life in a Chinese alleyway neighbourhood slated for destruction. It is based on the former Peace Corp volunteer's extended stay in the district, where he rented a cramped room that lacked indoor plumbing (but had an internet connection) and taught English for free (mostly to the children of migrant labourers) at a local elementary school.Out of Mao's Shadow, a model work of investigative political journalism by the Washington Post's Philip P Pan has many virtues, including that of introducing readers to the work and life of the daring documentary filmmaker Hu Jie and a Sichuan graveyard devoted to victims of Cultural Revolution violence. And finally, Smoke and Mirrors is Pallavi Aiyar's lively set of reflections on her experiences as the first Beijing-based Chinese-speaking correspondent for an Indian daily. Filled with amusing anecdotes, one of its strengths is the author's nuanced assessment of the contrasting attitudes toward manual labour, political expression, and gender in China and India. The appearance in a single year of four books this good\u2014and varied\u2014supports a claim that China specialist Robert Kapp made in a blog posting linked to the reissue of Graham Peck's classic 1950 memoir, Two Kinds of Time. Writing for \"The China Beat\" (an online publication that I helped found), Kapp asserted that we've recently entered a \"second golden age\" of English-language reportage writing on Chinese topics.The \"first golden age,\" in his view, began in the mid-1930s and ended with the appearance of Two Kinds of Time. The era witnessed the publication of many other memorable contributions to the genre, from Emily Hahn's China to Me, Jack Belden's China Shakes the World, and Annalee Jacoby and Theodore White's Thunder Out of China, to multiple titles by Edgar Snow, Agnes Smedley, and Carl Crow.I think Kapp is definitely onto something, even though it is possible to cite impressive works of China reportage that came out during the half-century following the publication of Two Kinds of Time. Throughout the 1980s and 1990s, for example, journalists and freelance writers would sometimes follow up trips to or long stays in China by writing smart and stylish books that had important things to say.In the last few years, though, there has been a notable acceleration in how often such books appear. Take 2005: the year saw the publication of Ian Johnson's Wild Grass, a superb work of dissent-focused reportage. Also published that year was The Changing Face of China, the latest in a series of thoughtful books on Chinese themes by long-time Guardian correspondent John Gittings. In 2006, readers who wanted a deeper understanding of China could turn to three impressive books of reportage: Peter Hessler's elegantly turned Oracle Bones: A Journey Between China's Past and Present, John Pomfrett's often moving Chinese Lessons: Five Classmates and the Story of the New China, and James Kynge's wide-ranging China Shakes the World: The Rise of a Hungry Nation. The next year, 2007, was perhaps not quite as rich a year for works of China reportage, but the general trend continued. It saw the appearance of both former Guardian correspondent Duncan Hewitt's Getting Rich First and Rob Gifford's China Road, each of which offered engaging looks at shifts in the PRC between the mid-1980s, when their authors first spent time in the country, and the present. Even measured against the years immediately preceding it, however, this has been a special year. The sheer range of topics covered and varieties of personal experiences the authors bring to their projects makes the \"Class of 2008\" made up of Chang, Meyer, Pan and Aiyar stand out from any that comes to mind from either the first or second \"golden ages\" of the genre.There is also something that makes these publications especially welcome to academics like myself: many of the authors involved, including Ian Johnson and Peter Hessler, find it natural when doing their research to read widely in the historical and social scientific scholarship on the issues that interest them.A final optimistic note is in order. Despite my comments above about the flaws of soundbite-driven discussions of China in 2008, throughout the year some excellent reporting on and commentaries about the country appeared in English-language publications, including The Guardian's print edition and Comment is Free. It could easily turn out that some of the most talented writers in the latest crop of savvy and thoughtful China-based journalists\u2014people like the New Yorker's Evan Osnos\u2014will end up coming up with book project as original and interesting as those of the Class of 2008. If so, the \"second golden age\" of reportage that Kapp imagined could continue for some time to come.", "tags": ["China", "Books", "Media", "Olympics 2008", "Olympics & the media", "Asia Pacific", "Olympics"], "title": "Jeffrey Wasserstrom: Looking at China in literature and the media"},{"date": "2008-11-26T12:39:36Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has slashed interest rates and cut the amount of money banks must set aside as reserves, as it attempts to bolster the economy in the face of the worldwide slowdown.Today's 1.08 percentage point cut, to 5.58%, is the largest reduction for a decade, reflecting the government's increasing alarm at slipping growth rates and its keenness to ensure companies and consumers spend more. This year will end the country's half-decade run of double-digit growth and the World Bank yesterday cut its prediction for GDP growth next year from 9.2% to 7.5%, which would be the lowest rate since 1990.\"It's certainly a lot more aggressive than anything they've done recently. I think it speaks volumes about just how much China has slowed down,\" said Anthony Muh, Asia Pacific head with AT Asset Management in Hong Kong.Liu Dongliang, a currency analyst at China Merchants Bank in Shenzhen, told Reuters: \"All my colleagues were shocked by such a big easing.\"Officials unveiled a 4 trillion yuan (\u00a3385bn) stimulus package earlier this month, but it has since emerged that only around a third of the money will come from the central government. The rest is expected to come from local authorities and private investment and the authorities are keen to see banks increase their lending to struggling enterprises.The central bank cut interest on a one-year loan by 1.08 percentage points, to 5.58%; the largest cut in the lending rate since October 1997. The deposit rate will fall to 2.52%, the biggest cut since June 1999. The reserve requirement rate for the largest banks will fall by 1 percentage point to 15.5%, while that for smaller banks will fall by 2 percentage points to 14.5%. The People's Bank of China said the measures, which take effect tomorrow, are meant to ensure sufficient liquidity in the banking system to ensure growth. There have now been four interest rate cuts in two and a half months, reflecting a shift by policymakers from tackling inflation to supporting growth. The annual consumer inflation rate more than tripled last year to 4.8% despite six interest rate rises and 10 increases in banks' reserve requirements. But it peaked this spring and the central bank's vice governor Yi Gang said earlier this month that the threat of inflation had \"basically vanished\". Niu Li, senior economist at the government thinktank the State Information Centre, suggested the scale of the change would be crucial to its success, telling Reuters: \"Compared with a series of small steps, a one-off big move is more effective in boosting confidence.\"But Michael Pettis, professor of finance at Peking University, warned: \"This relieves pressure on companies with cash flow problems, but doesn't address the fundamental problem in the economy - lack of demand ... There is not tremendous demand producers can't fulfil because of the high cost of capital, but overcapacity.\"Recent months have seen a steep decline in export growth and analysts believe that next year may see exports actually fall. The government hopes to offset the problem by boosting domestic consumption, but many argue that it will take years to shift spending significantly.Stephen Green, head of China research at Standard Chartered, wrote in a note: \"The hope will be that this move will trigger more buying interest for homes, as well as support investment, both private as well as the coming wave of public projects. But rate policy in this environment is a marginal factor - businesses think about possible returns on investments, and households will look at house price prospects.\"", "tags": ["Global economy", "China", "Business", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China slashes interest rates"},{"date": "2008-10-23T07:00:15Z", "country": "china", "content": "For my work, I need to check websites for news and information regularly. And every time I travelled to mainland China, I would often do the same, until I saw the blank page or time-out error message on the screen. Not being able to access some sites reminded me of where I was. Last month, when I was back in Hong Kong after a month spent in Beijing reporting the Olympic games, I found I automatically didn't visit those sites, and even when I did, I half-expected a blank screen to pop up.I believe many people who travel frequently to and from China have similar experiences. When I was stationed in Beijing for two years, I found the inability to access information freely often hindered my work. I felt helpless when my manager demanded to know why I hadn't reacted to certain news because, even if the news happened nearby, I had no way of knowing. My journalist colleagues shared the same burden. Eventually our HQ had to accept using material from foreign media to report domestic events in China.Many people in Hong Kong who complain about aspects of their daily lives would recognise that the country provides two fundamental things for ordinary people: security and freedom. People feel secure because they trust law and order and they feel free because information flows freely here.So if a law is used in such a way that it violates the freedom of citizens to access information, then we have the right to question whether that law is necessary, even if we trust the lawmaker's intention to protect. Earlier this month, the Hong Kong SAR (special administration region) government published a consultation paper on the comprehensive review of the control of obscene and indecent articles ordinance (COIAO). In the section concerning new media, it proposes that ISPs place filtering software to block obscene and indecent materials. It sounds reasonable: a government seeking to protect children and young people from pornographic and violent materials. But the proposal prompts many questions. Who is to decide which contents are pornographic or violent? How do you distinguish between adults and the under-aged? How do you protect adults' freedoms? Most importantly, how do you prevent this power being abused for political motives?The government insists the consultation is transparent and welcomes citizens' input. However, reading the proposal, one can't help but think this is a document giving the administration the power and convenience to establish an order whenever it deems it necessary. What worries people is the government mentality behind this. Clearly, it doesn't trust its own citizens. People fear this attempt to impose regulation on the internet is just the beginning. The government is behaving like a parent who has lost confidence in communication and education, and chosen instead to impose strict rules. At the beginning of the chapter New Forms of Media, the consultation paper claims:Given the emergence of new forms of media, particularly the growing popularity of the Internet, members of the public consider it important that measures are taken to protect youngsters from the dissemination of obscene and indecent materials on such new media systems.Who are the \"members of the public\"? Can the government claim they speak for the public? Do the public, especially children, as the government imagines; need new protection imposed by the authorities, from indecent materials?The authorities would be better advised to surf the internet more often and learn how people in Hong Kong use the web. People can seek and find the real obscene and indecent materials themselves, or through their circles. But do the same materials spread so quickly only because of the existence of the internet? In reality, similar materials are already easily available in Hong Kong. There are special fengyue (erotica) sections in some of the newspapers. There are adult magazines, wrapped in black plastic bags, available in most newsagents. There was no way to avoid them, even before the internet age. If the government wants to protect children and young people, they should equip our youngsters with the ability to make better judgments themselves with the help of communities, parents and schools.As a citizen of Hong Kong, what I don't want to see is, one day, when I click a link to a website, a blank page. We may not like certain sites, but we don't want to give the government the right to decide for us which sites we should and should not visit. If even this right is removed, what is the justification for \"one country, two systems\"?This article first appeared, in Chinese, here.", "tags": ["China", "UK civil liberties", "Internet", "Internet IPOs", "World news", "Censorship", "Technology", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Rose Luqiu Luwei: China's desire to impose internet regulation masks a need to check its citizens' freedom"},{"date": "2008-10-14T23:01:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "In the 63 years since he was created, Thomas the Tank Engine has travelled a long way from a branch line on the Island of Sodor. But the \"cheeky little engine\" is still entering uncharted territory, after a new deal was signed to export the children's television programme to China for the first time.The rights to four series of Thomas and Friends, already broadcast in more than 185 countries around the world, have been sold to Chinese state broadcaster CCTV by licensing company HIT Entertainment.It is the first deal between HIT, which also owns the rights to a host of other popular characters including Barney the Dinosaur and Bob the Builder, and a Chinese broadcaster. The country is seen as a potentially huge growth area by intellectual property groups that hold the rights to some of the best-known children's characters. Alison Homewood, HIT's executive vice president for worldwide TV distribution, said the show was \"one of the world's most popular and unique properties in the pre-school market\". The company has also appointed a licensing agent in China that will sign deals to produce toys and other spin offs. Publisher Egmont will produce a series of story books to tie in with the show. More than 200m books and more than 80m Thomas DVDs have been sold to date. The character was invented by the Rev W Awdry for his son Christopher and was given a new lease of life in 1984 with the introduction of the TV series, narrated by former Beatle Ringo Starr. The deal is one of hundreds that will be signed this week between broadcasters at the Mipcom TV festival in Cannes. BBC Worldwide, the corporation's commercial arm, unveiled a deal to make a Russian version of Top Gear.", "tags": ["Television industry", "Television", "China", "Media", "World news", "Television & radio", "TV merchandising", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Thomas the Tank Engine heads for China"},{"date": "2008-12-16T12:58:50Z", "country": "china", "content": "Chinese government officials have defended their decision to block several foreign news websites, including the BBC, as the country moves away from its pledge for uncensored internet access during the Beijing Olympics.The BBC, Voice of America, Hong Kong's Ming Pao News and Asiaweek have all had their websites blocked in China since early December. Restrictions had previously been lifted in August, when foreign journalists demanded full access during the Olympics.China's foreign ministry said today that it was within its rights to block sites that showed content illegal under the country's law. A foreign ministry spokesman, Liu Jianchao, said the Chinese government \"could not deny\" that it had issues with some sites.\"For instance, if a website refers to 'two Chinas' or refers to mainland China and Taiwan as two independent regions, we believe that violates China's anti-secession law, as well as other laws,\" Liu added.\"We hope that the relevant websites can comply with China's concerns and not do things contrary to Chinese law. This will help establish good co-operation between China and the relevant countries, as well as China and the relevant websites.\"China has previously blocked several high-profile websites but has not acknowledged an official ban, preferring to show users an error message for those sites instead.Access to the BBC's English-language site was briefly lifted in March, although the Chinese-language site remained blocked.A BBC spokeswoman said: \"We are disappointed that Chinese-speaking audiences in China are not able to get access to the BBC's impartial and editorially independent news and information through BBCChinese.com. In the runup to the 2008 Beijing Olympics, Chinese residents were able to have some access to BBCChinese.com but now there seem to be more difficulties in viewing the site. We will endeavour to continue working with the Chinese authorities to improve access for our Chinese-speaking audiences in China.\"Chinese authorities are understood to be far stricter with the Mandarin-language version of the BBC website at BBCChinese.com, which saw only slightly loosened restrictions during the Olympics. Both the BBC's Mandarin radio broadcasts and Mandarin-language site have been subject to restrictions, the latter for most of its 10-year existence.Online content is understood to be filtered by subject to web users in China, so news about Tibet or Chinese politics is censored.\"We're not surprised at this behaviour from the Chinese government,\" said a spokesman for the press freedom group Reporters Sans Fronti\u00e8res. \"The figures for Chinese control of the web are appalling. We were trying to raise awareness of this during the Olympics and even then it was very difficult to gain access to some sites, let alone for journalists travelling in China.\"The Foreign Correspondents Club of China said it had recorded 177 cases of journalists being obstructed in their work since the start of 2008, including Christian Science Monitor reporter Peter Ford being arrested after covering a Protestant prayer meeting in Henan province.RSF ranks China 167th out of the world's 173 countries for its record on press freedom. Only Vietnam, Cuba, Burma, Turkmenistan, North Korea and Eritrea rank lower.China recently overtook the US as the world's biggest internet market with an estimated 253 million web users, according to Internet World Stats.\u2022\u00a0To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.\u2022 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".", "tags": ["Digital media", "Media", "China", "World news", "Censorship", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China defends latest web censorship"},{"date": "2008-11-08T00:01:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "In what is perhaps the operatic equivalent of selling ice to the Inuit, Damon Albarn is planning to take his rapturously received Monkey: Journey to the West show on a world tour that will involve it going back east to China.Those behind the show, who hope it will prove a hit with mainstream family audiences during its forthcoming run at the O2 in London despite being narrated in Mandarin and based on an ancient Chinese folk tale, plan to have two versions of the show on a permanent global tour. The opera - overseen by Chinese director Chen Shi-Zheng with a score by Albarn and visuals, stage and costume design by his Gorillaz partner Jamie Hewlett - will tonight begin a month-long run at a tented village attached to the arena in Greenwich. Rob Hallett, senior vice-president of promoter AEG Live, said it had invested \u00a33m in the show and planned to take it across central Europe, Asia and the US next year. Noting the popularity of Cirque du Soleil in Las Vegas, he said a version of the show could play there tooTelling the story of Monkey's quest for redemption and enlightenment as he accompanies the monk Tripitaka on a mission to bring back sacred Bhuddist scrolls from India, the opera features 40 Chinese performers, including acrobats, dancers, contortionists and martial artists.The show has played to more than 100,000 people in Manchester, Paris, Charleston in the US and London's Royal Opera House. Chris Morrison, who has been Albarn's manager in Blur and various subsequent projects for 16 years, said he was \"absolutely blown away\" when he first saw the finished show.", "tags": ["China", "Classical music", "Music", "World news", "Culture", "Stage", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Albarn's Monkey returns to China"},{"date": "2008-12-25T09:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Due to the Beijing Olympics and a string of unexpected headline-grabbing events, from the Tibet riots and Sichuan earthquake to the melamine milk scandal, this year has seen China garner an extraordinary amount of attention in the western media. There has been a clear contrast even with 2007, when China was also in the news a lot but there were still short periods without international headlines. In 2008, that just didn't happen.If this represents a departure from past precedent, there are two things about English-language discussions of China this year that carried forward ongoing traditions. One represents a disheartening long-term pattern, the other an encouraging recent trend.Let's get the bad news out of the way first. Much western commentary on China, especially as purveyed in media that depend heavily on sound bites and sensationalism, continued to fall into a familiar trap. Simplification of complicated Chinese phenomena was often the order of the day, as much coverage, especially of the Beijing games, swung between romanticising or demonising the country and its people. On the positive side, though, the year saw a bumper crop of unusually illuminating books of reportage. The four works I have in mind take widely varying approaches to contemporary China. What they have in common is that each is by someone with good Chinese language skills, has a long-term commitment to understanding China on its own terms, and has hit upon an interesting way to frame a book. Each offers readers a valuable opportunity to move beyond simplistic visions of China that downplay the diversity of the country and the complex nature of the social and cultural shifts its people are experiencing.Factory Girls by former Wall Street Journal correspondent Leslie T. Chang offers moving life stories and highly individualised portraits of workers the author befriended during visits to the massive industrial boomtown of Dongguan made over several years. The Last Days of Old Beijing, Michael Meyer's poignant, historically minded work, looks at life in a Chinese alleyway neighbourhood slated for destruction. It is based on the former Peace Corp volunteer's extended stay in the district, where he rented a cramped room that lacked indoor plumbing (but had an internet connection) and taught English for free (mostly to the children of migrant labourers) at a local elementary school.Out of Mao's Shadow, a model work of investigative political journalism by the Washington Post's Philip P Pan has many virtues, including that of introducing readers to the work and life of the daring documentary filmmaker Hu Jie and a Sichuan graveyard devoted to victims of Cultural Revolution violence. And finally, Smoke and Mirrors is Pallavi Aiyar's lively set of reflections on her experiences as the first Beijing-based Chinese-speaking correspondent for an Indian daily. Filled with amusing anecdotes, one of its strengths is the author's nuanced assessment of the contrasting attitudes toward manual labour, political expression, and gender in China and India. The appearance in a single year of four books this good\u2014and varied\u2014supports a claim that China specialist Robert Kapp made in a blog posting linked to the reissue of Graham Peck's classic 1950 memoir, Two Kinds of Time. Writing for \"The China Beat\" (an online publication that I helped found), Kapp asserted that we've recently entered a \"second golden age\" of English-language reportage writing on Chinese topics.The \"first golden age,\" in his view, began in the mid-1930s and ended with the appearance of Two Kinds of Time. The era witnessed the publication of many other memorable contributions to the genre, from Emily Hahn's China to Me, Jack Belden's China Shakes the World, and Annalee Jacoby and Theodore White's Thunder Out of China, to multiple titles by Edgar Snow, Agnes Smedley, and Carl Crow.I think Kapp is definitely onto something, even though it is possible to cite impressive works of China reportage that came out during the half-century following the publication of Two Kinds of Time. Throughout the 1980s and 1990s, for example, journalists and freelance writers would sometimes follow up trips to or long stays in China by writing smart and stylish books that had important things to say.In the last few years, though, there has been a notable acceleration in how often such books appear. Take 2005: the year saw the publication of Ian Johnson's Wild Grass, a superb work of dissent-focused reportage. Also published that year was The Changing Face of China, the latest in a series of thoughtful books on Chinese themes by long-time Guardian correspondent John Gittings. In 2006, readers who wanted a deeper understanding of China could turn to three impressive books of reportage: Peter Hessler's elegantly turned Oracle Bones: A Journey Between China's Past and Present, John Pomfrett's often moving Chinese Lessons: Five Classmates and the Story of the New China, and James Kynge's wide-ranging China Shakes the World: The Rise of a Hungry Nation. The next year, 2007, was perhaps not quite as rich a year for works of China reportage, but the general trend continued. It saw the appearance of both former Guardian correspondent Duncan Hewitt's Getting Rich First and Rob Gifford's China Road, each of which offered engaging looks at shifts in the PRC between the mid-1980s, when their authors first spent time in the country, and the present. Even measured against the years immediately preceding it, however, this has been a special year. The sheer range of topics covered and varieties of personal experiences the authors bring to their projects makes the \"Class of 2008\" made up of Chang, Meyer, Pan and Aiyar stand out from any that comes to mind from either the first or second \"golden ages\" of the genre.There is also something that makes these publications especially welcome to academics like myself: many of the authors involved, including Ian Johnson and Peter Hessler, find it natural when doing their research to read widely in the historical and social scientific scholarship on the issues that interest them.A final optimistic note is in order. Despite my comments above about the flaws of soundbite-driven discussions of China in 2008, throughout the year some excellent reporting on and commentaries about the country appeared in English-language publications, including The Guardian's print edition and Comment is Free. It could easily turn out that some of the most talented writers in the latest crop of savvy and thoughtful China-based journalists\u2014people like the New Yorker's Evan Osnos\u2014will end up coming up with book project as original and interesting as those of the Class of 2008. If so, the \"second golden age\" of reportage that Kapp imagined could continue for some time to come.", "tags": ["China", "Books", "Media", "Olympics 2008", "Olympics & the media", "Asia Pacific", "Olympics"], "title": "Jeffrey Wasserstrom: Looking at China in literature and the media"},{"date": "2008-11-26T12:39:36Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has slashed interest rates and cut the amount of money banks must set aside as reserves, as it attempts to bolster the economy in the face of the worldwide slowdown.Today's 1.08 percentage point cut, to 5.58%, is the largest reduction for a decade, reflecting the government's increasing alarm at slipping growth rates and its keenness to ensure companies and consumers spend more. This year will end the country's half-decade run of double-digit growth and the World Bank yesterday cut its prediction for GDP growth next year from 9.2% to 7.5%, which would be the lowest rate since 1990.\"It's certainly a lot more aggressive than anything they've done recently. I think it speaks volumes about just how much China has slowed down,\" said Anthony Muh, Asia Pacific head with AT Asset Management in Hong Kong.Liu Dongliang, a currency analyst at China Merchants Bank in Shenzhen, told Reuters: \"All my colleagues were shocked by such a big easing.\"Officials unveiled a 4 trillion yuan (\u00a3385bn) stimulus package earlier this month, but it has since emerged that only around a third of the money will come from the central government. The rest is expected to come from local authorities and private investment and the authorities are keen to see banks increase their lending to struggling enterprises.The central bank cut interest on a one-year loan by 1.08 percentage points, to 5.58%; the largest cut in the lending rate since October 1997. The deposit rate will fall to 2.52%, the biggest cut since June 1999. The reserve requirement rate for the largest banks will fall by 1 percentage point to 15.5%, while that for smaller banks will fall by 2 percentage points to 14.5%. The People's Bank of China said the measures, which take effect tomorrow, are meant to ensure sufficient liquidity in the banking system to ensure growth. There have now been four interest rate cuts in two and a half months, reflecting a shift by policymakers from tackling inflation to supporting growth. The annual consumer inflation rate more than tripled last year to 4.8% despite six interest rate rises and 10 increases in banks' reserve requirements. But it peaked this spring and the central bank's vice governor Yi Gang said earlier this month that the threat of inflation had \"basically vanished\". Niu Li, senior economist at the government thinktank the State Information Centre, suggested the scale of the change would be crucial to its success, telling Reuters: \"Compared with a series of small steps, a one-off big move is more effective in boosting confidence.\"But Michael Pettis, professor of finance at Peking University, warned: \"This relieves pressure on companies with cash flow problems, but doesn't address the fundamental problem in the economy - lack of demand ... There is not tremendous demand producers can't fulfil because of the high cost of capital, but overcapacity.\"Recent months have seen a steep decline in export growth and analysts believe that next year may see exports actually fall. The government hopes to offset the problem by boosting domestic consumption, but many argue that it will take years to shift spending significantly.Stephen Green, head of China research at Standard Chartered, wrote in a note: \"The hope will be that this move will trigger more buying interest for homes, as well as support investment, both private as well as the coming wave of public projects. But rate policy in this environment is a marginal factor - businesses think about possible returns on investments, and households will look at house price prospects.\"", "tags": ["Global economy", "China", "Business", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China slashes interest rates"},{"date": "2008-10-23T07:00:15Z", "country": "china", "content": "For my work, I need to check websites for news and information regularly. And every time I travelled to mainland China, I would often do the same, until I saw the blank page or time-out error message on the screen. Not being able to access some sites reminded me of where I was. Last month, when I was back in Hong Kong after a month spent in Beijing reporting the Olympic games, I found I automatically didn't visit those sites, and even when I did, I half-expected a blank screen to pop up.I believe many people who travel frequently to and from China have similar experiences. When I was stationed in Beijing for two years, I found the inability to access information freely often hindered my work. I felt helpless when my manager demanded to know why I hadn't reacted to certain news because, even if the news happened nearby, I had no way of knowing. My journalist colleagues shared the same burden. Eventually our HQ had to accept using material from foreign media to report domestic events in China.Many people in Hong Kong who complain about aspects of their daily lives would recognise that the country provides two fundamental things for ordinary people: security and freedom. People feel secure because they trust law and order and they feel free because information flows freely here.So if a law is used in such a way that it violates the freedom of citizens to access information, then we have the right to question whether that law is necessary, even if we trust the lawmaker's intention to protect. Earlier this month, the Hong Kong SAR (special administration region) government published a consultation paper on the comprehensive review of the control of obscene and indecent articles ordinance (COIAO). In the section concerning new media, it proposes that ISPs place filtering software to block obscene and indecent materials. It sounds reasonable: a government seeking to protect children and young people from pornographic and violent materials. But the proposal prompts many questions. Who is to decide which contents are pornographic or violent? How do you distinguish between adults and the under-aged? How do you protect adults' freedoms? Most importantly, how do you prevent this power being abused for political motives?The government insists the consultation is transparent and welcomes citizens' input. However, reading the proposal, one can't help but think this is a document giving the administration the power and convenience to establish an order whenever it deems it necessary. What worries people is the government mentality behind this. Clearly, it doesn't trust its own citizens. People fear this attempt to impose regulation on the internet is just the beginning. The government is behaving like a parent who has lost confidence in communication and education, and chosen instead to impose strict rules. At the beginning of the chapter New Forms of Media, the consultation paper claims:Given the emergence of new forms of media, particularly the growing popularity of the Internet, members of the public consider it important that measures are taken to protect youngsters from the dissemination of obscene and indecent materials on such new media systems.Who are the \"members of the public\"? Can the government claim they speak for the public? Do the public, especially children, as the government imagines; need new protection imposed by the authorities, from indecent materials?The authorities would be better advised to surf the internet more often and learn how people in Hong Kong use the web. People can seek and find the real obscene and indecent materials themselves, or through their circles. But do the same materials spread so quickly only because of the existence of the internet? In reality, similar materials are already easily available in Hong Kong. There are special fengyue (erotica) sections in some of the newspapers. There are adult magazines, wrapped in black plastic bags, available in most newsagents. There was no way to avoid them, even before the internet age. If the government wants to protect children and young people, they should equip our youngsters with the ability to make better judgments themselves with the help of communities, parents and schools.As a citizen of Hong Kong, what I don't want to see is, one day, when I click a link to a website, a blank page. We may not like certain sites, but we don't want to give the government the right to decide for us which sites we should and should not visit. If even this right is removed, what is the justification for \"one country, two systems\"?This article first appeared, in Chinese, here.", "tags": ["China", "UK civil liberties", "Internet", "Internet IPOs", "World news", "Censorship", "Technology", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Rose Luqiu Luwei: China's desire to impose internet regulation masks a need to check its citizens' freedom"},{"date": "2008-10-14T23:01:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "In the 63 years since he was created, Thomas the Tank Engine has travelled a long way from a branch line on the Island of Sodor. But the \"cheeky little engine\" is still entering uncharted territory, after a new deal was signed to export the children's television programme to China for the first time.The rights to four series of Thomas and Friends, already broadcast in more than 185 countries around the world, have been sold to Chinese state broadcaster CCTV by licensing company HIT Entertainment.It is the first deal between HIT, which also owns the rights to a host of other popular characters including Barney the Dinosaur and Bob the Builder, and a Chinese broadcaster. The country is seen as a potentially huge growth area by intellectual property groups that hold the rights to some of the best-known children's characters. Alison Homewood, HIT's executive vice president for worldwide TV distribution, said the show was \"one of the world's most popular and unique properties in the pre-school market\". The company has also appointed a licensing agent in China that will sign deals to produce toys and other spin offs. Publisher Egmont will produce a series of story books to tie in with the show. More than 200m books and more than 80m Thomas DVDs have been sold to date. The character was invented by the Rev W Awdry for his son Christopher and was given a new lease of life in 1984 with the introduction of the TV series, narrated by former Beatle Ringo Starr. The deal is one of hundreds that will be signed this week between broadcasters at the Mipcom TV festival in Cannes. BBC Worldwide, the corporation's commercial arm, unveiled a deal to make a Russian version of Top Gear.", "tags": ["Television industry", "Television", "China", "Media", "World news", "Television & radio", "TV merchandising", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Thomas the Tank Engine heads for China"},{"date": "2008-12-16T12:58:50Z", "country": "china", "content": "Chinese government officials have defended their decision to block several foreign news websites, including the BBC, as the country moves away from its pledge for uncensored internet access during the Beijing Olympics.The BBC, Voice of America, Hong Kong's Ming Pao News and Asiaweek have all had their websites blocked in China since early December. Restrictions had previously been lifted in August, when foreign journalists demanded full access during the Olympics.China's foreign ministry said today that it was within its rights to block sites that showed content illegal under the country's law. A foreign ministry spokesman, Liu Jianchao, said the Chinese government \"could not deny\" that it had issues with some sites.\"For instance, if a website refers to 'two Chinas' or refers to mainland China and Taiwan as two independent regions, we believe that violates China's anti-secession law, as well as other laws,\" Liu added.\"We hope that the relevant websites can comply with China's concerns and not do things contrary to Chinese law. This will help establish good co-operation between China and the relevant countries, as well as China and the relevant websites.\"China has previously blocked several high-profile websites but has not acknowledged an official ban, preferring to show users an error message for those sites instead.Access to the BBC's English-language site was briefly lifted in March, although the Chinese-language site remained blocked.A BBC spokeswoman said: \"We are disappointed that Chinese-speaking audiences in China are not able to get access to the BBC's impartial and editorially independent news and information through BBCChinese.com. In the runup to the 2008 Beijing Olympics, Chinese residents were able to have some access to BBCChinese.com but now there seem to be more difficulties in viewing the site. We will endeavour to continue working with the Chinese authorities to improve access for our Chinese-speaking audiences in China.\"Chinese authorities are understood to be far stricter with the Mandarin-language version of the BBC website at BBCChinese.com, which saw only slightly loosened restrictions during the Olympics. Both the BBC's Mandarin radio broadcasts and Mandarin-language site have been subject to restrictions, the latter for most of its 10-year existence.Online content is understood to be filtered by subject to web users in China, so news about Tibet or Chinese politics is censored.\"We're not surprised at this behaviour from the Chinese government,\" said a spokesman for the press freedom group Reporters Sans Fronti\u00e8res. \"The figures for Chinese control of the web are appalling. We were trying to raise awareness of this during the Olympics and even then it was very difficult to gain access to some sites, let alone for journalists travelling in China.\"The Foreign Correspondents Club of China said it had recorded 177 cases of journalists being obstructed in their work since the start of 2008, including Christian Science Monitor reporter Peter Ford being arrested after covering a Protestant prayer meeting in Henan province.RSF ranks China 167th out of the world's 173 countries for its record on press freedom. Only Vietnam, Cuba, Burma, Turkmenistan, North Korea and Eritrea rank lower.China recently overtook the US as the world's biggest internet market with an estimated 253 million web users, according to Internet World Stats.\u2022\u00a0To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.\u2022 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".", "tags": ["Digital media", "Media", "China", "World news", "Censorship", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China defends latest web censorship"},{"date": "2008-11-08T00:01:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "In what is perhaps the operatic equivalent of selling ice to the Inuit, Damon Albarn is planning to take his rapturously received Monkey: Journey to the West show on a world tour that will involve it going back east to China.Those behind the show, who hope it will prove a hit with mainstream family audiences during its forthcoming run at the O2 in London despite being narrated in Mandarin and based on an ancient Chinese folk tale, plan to have two versions of the show on a permanent global tour. The opera - overseen by Chinese director Chen Shi-Zheng with a score by Albarn and visuals, stage and costume design by his Gorillaz partner Jamie Hewlett - will tonight begin a month-long run at a tented village attached to the arena in Greenwich. Rob Hallett, senior vice-president of promoter AEG Live, said it had invested \u00a33m in the show and planned to take it across central Europe, Asia and the US next year. Noting the popularity of Cirque du Soleil in Las Vegas, he said a version of the show could play there tooTelling the story of Monkey's quest for redemption and enlightenment as he accompanies the monk Tripitaka on a mission to bring back sacred Bhuddist scrolls from India, the opera features 40 Chinese performers, including acrobats, dancers, contortionists and martial artists.The show has played to more than 100,000 people in Manchester, Paris, Charleston in the US and London's Royal Opera House. Chris Morrison, who has been Albarn's manager in Blur and various subsequent projects for 16 years, said he was \"absolutely blown away\" when he first saw the finished show.", "tags": ["China", "Classical music", "Music", "World news", "Culture", "Stage", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Albarn's Monkey returns to China"},{"date": "2008-12-23T10:40:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "A pair of giant pandas arrived in Taiwan from China today after a highly symbolic journey that highlights the gradual thawing of relations between the self-governing island and the mainland.In the latest example of so-called \"panda diplomacy\" \u2013 the most famous example of which saw Mao Zedong send a pair of the animals to the US in 1972 after Richard Nixon's historic visit \u2013 Tuan Tuan and Yuan Yuan were packed into special portable cages and loaded on to a charter flight in south-west China.Chinese state TV carried live footage as the plane, its interior decorated with panda pictures, took off from Chengdu airport in Sichuan province at the start of the three-hour flight to Taiwan.\"I wish them a happy life in Taiwan,\" said a tearful Qu Chunmao, one of the pandas' keepers at the Wolong breeding centre where they were raised.Another keeper and a vet flew with the animals to make sure they suffered no ill effects from the journey. The plane carried about half a tonne of Sichuanese bamboo and some steamed corn buns in case the pair initially reject the food served at the zoo in Taipei, Taiwan's capital.Taiwanese TV later showed its own live footage of the Eva Airways Boeing 747 touching down in Taipei.The four-year-old pandas \u2013 or \"furry goodwill ambassadors\", as one report called them \u2013 will spend a month in quarantine before emerging before the public in time for the lunar new year public holiday.Beijing first offered the pandas in 2005 but they were rejected by the then president, Chen Shui-bian, whose Democratic Progressive party (DPP) supported moves towards independence for Taiwan. The island split politically from the mainland in 1949 after nationalist forces routed by Mao's communists fled there.Taiwan's new president, Ma Ying-jeou, has tried to forge closer ties with China and accepted the pandas as a goodwill gesture.Pandas have long been an important symbol of Chinese diplomatic overtures to both allies and former foes. In the past, Beijing has given the animals to countries including North Korea, the Soviet Union and Japan.The dispatch of Tuan Tuan and Yuan Yuan has received heavy media coverage in China, beginning today with a pre-dawn ceremony at the breeding centre in which children dressed up as pandas performed a dance as the animals were loaded on to a truck. A special set of stamps has been issued marking the event.Some in Taiwan are suspicious of the gift. When put together, the names Tuan Tuan and Yuan Yuan mean \"reunion\" in Chinese. Beijing insists Taiwan is a rogue province and has long threatened to bring it back under Chinese rule by force.The lavish farewell ceremony at Chengdu airport, involving speeches and more dancing, carefully avoided any statements of overt political intent from Beijing.\"Tuan Tuan and Yuan Yuan will sow the seeds of peace, solidarity and friendship on Taiwan's soil,\" said Zheng Lizhong, from Beijing's Taiwan Affairs Office, according to the AFP news agency. The pandas were leaving \"with the good wishes of the 1.3 billion mainland compatriots\", Zheng said.While many Taiwanese want to see a reunion, others view it as a threat to the island's democratic system and higher living standards. A spokesman for the DPP, now in opposition, said the pandas \"will not cover up China's military threat against us\".China still has hundreds of missiles aimed at Taiwan but in recent years it has focused less on sabre rattling and more on increasing economic and social ties. A significant proportion of Taiwan's economy is now reliant on factories on the mainland, and Beijing has offered Taiwanese investors assistance to weather the global economic downturn.In the wake of direct shipping and postal links, this summer also saw the first direct flights across the Taiwan Straits since the civil war, with passenger services now running daily.", "tags": ["China", "Animals", "World news", "Taiwan", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China sends panda peace offering to Taiwan"},{"date": "2008-12-25T09:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Due to the Beijing Olympics and a string of unexpected headline-grabbing events, from the Tibet riots and Sichuan earthquake to the melamine milk scandal, this year has seen China garner an extraordinary amount of attention in the western media. There has been a clear contrast even with 2007, when China was also in the news a lot but there were still short periods without international headlines. In 2008, that just didn't happen.If this represents a departure from past precedent, there are two things about English-language discussions of China this year that carried forward ongoing traditions. One represents a disheartening long-term pattern, the other an encouraging recent trend.Let's get the bad news out of the way first. Much western commentary on China, especially as purveyed in media that depend heavily on sound bites and sensationalism, continued to fall into a familiar trap. Simplification of complicated Chinese phenomena was often the order of the day, as much coverage, especially of the Beijing games, swung between romanticising or demonising the country and its people. On the positive side, though, the year saw a bumper crop of unusually illuminating books of reportage. The four works I have in mind take widely varying approaches to contemporary China. What they have in common is that each is by someone with good Chinese language skills, has a long-term commitment to understanding China on its own terms, and has hit upon an interesting way to frame a book. Each offers readers a valuable opportunity to move beyond simplistic visions of China that downplay the diversity of the country and the complex nature of the social and cultural shifts its people are experiencing.Factory Girls by former Wall Street Journal correspondent Leslie T. Chang offers moving life stories and highly individualised portraits of workers the author befriended during visits to the massive industrial boomtown of Dongguan made over several years. The Last Days of Old Beijing, Michael Meyer's poignant, historically minded work, looks at life in a Chinese alleyway neighbourhood slated for destruction. It is based on the former Peace Corp volunteer's extended stay in the district, where he rented a cramped room that lacked indoor plumbing (but had an internet connection) and taught English for free (mostly to the children of migrant labourers) at a local elementary school.Out of Mao's Shadow, a model work of investigative political journalism by the Washington Post's Philip P Pan has many virtues, including that of introducing readers to the work and life of the daring documentary filmmaker Hu Jie and a Sichuan graveyard devoted to victims of Cultural Revolution violence. And finally, Smoke and Mirrors is Pallavi Aiyar's lively set of reflections on her experiences as the first Beijing-based Chinese-speaking correspondent for an Indian daily. Filled with amusing anecdotes, one of its strengths is the author's nuanced assessment of the contrasting attitudes toward manual labour, political expression, and gender in China and India. The appearance in a single year of four books this good\u2014and varied\u2014supports a claim that China specialist Robert Kapp made in a blog posting linked to the reissue of Graham Peck's classic 1950 memoir, Two Kinds of Time. Writing for \"The China Beat\" (an online publication that I helped found), Kapp asserted that we've recently entered a \"second golden age\" of English-language reportage writing on Chinese topics.The \"first golden age,\" in his view, began in the mid-1930s and ended with the appearance of Two Kinds of Time. The era witnessed the publication of many other memorable contributions to the genre, from Emily Hahn's China to Me, Jack Belden's China Shakes the World, and Annalee Jacoby and Theodore White's Thunder Out of China, to multiple titles by Edgar Snow, Agnes Smedley, and Carl Crow.I think Kapp is definitely onto something, even though it is possible to cite impressive works of China reportage that came out during the half-century following the publication of Two Kinds of Time. Throughout the 1980s and 1990s, for example, journalists and freelance writers would sometimes follow up trips to or long stays in China by writing smart and stylish books that had important things to say.In the last few years, though, there has been a notable acceleration in how often such books appear. Take 2005: the year saw the publication of Ian Johnson's Wild Grass, a superb work of dissent-focused reportage. Also published that year was The Changing Face of China, the latest in a series of thoughtful books on Chinese themes by long-time Guardian correspondent John Gittings. In 2006, readers who wanted a deeper understanding of China could turn to three impressive books of reportage: Peter Hessler's elegantly turned Oracle Bones: A Journey Between China's Past and Present, John Pomfrett's often moving Chinese Lessons: Five Classmates and the Story of the New China, and James Kynge's wide-ranging China Shakes the World: The Rise of a Hungry Nation. The next year, 2007, was perhaps not quite as rich a year for works of China reportage, but the general trend continued. It saw the appearance of both former Guardian correspondent Duncan Hewitt's Getting Rich First and Rob Gifford's China Road, each of which offered engaging looks at shifts in the PRC between the mid-1980s, when their authors first spent time in the country, and the present. Even measured against the years immediately preceding it, however, this has been a special year. The sheer range of topics covered and varieties of personal experiences the authors bring to their projects makes the \"Class of 2008\" made up of Chang, Meyer, Pan and Aiyar stand out from any that comes to mind from either the first or second \"golden ages\" of the genre.There is also something that makes these publications especially welcome to academics like myself: many of the authors involved, including Ian Johnson and Peter Hessler, find it natural when doing their research to read widely in the historical and social scientific scholarship on the issues that interest them.A final optimistic note is in order. Despite my comments above about the flaws of soundbite-driven discussions of China in 2008, throughout the year some excellent reporting on and commentaries about the country appeared in English-language publications, including The Guardian's print edition and Comment is Free. It could easily turn out that some of the most talented writers in the latest crop of savvy and thoughtful China-based journalists\u2014people like the New Yorker's Evan Osnos\u2014will end up coming up with book project as original and interesting as those of the Class of 2008. If so, the \"second golden age\" of reportage that Kapp imagined could continue for some time to come.", "tags": ["China", "Books", "Media", "Olympics 2008", "Olympics & the media", "Asia Pacific", "Olympics"], "title": "Jeffrey Wasserstrom: Looking at China in literature and the media"},{"date": "2008-11-26T12:39:36Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has slashed interest rates and cut the amount of money banks must set aside as reserves, as it attempts to bolster the economy in the face of the worldwide slowdown.Today's 1.08 percentage point cut, to 5.58%, is the largest reduction for a decade, reflecting the government's increasing alarm at slipping growth rates and its keenness to ensure companies and consumers spend more. This year will end the country's half-decade run of double-digit growth and the World Bank yesterday cut its prediction for GDP growth next year from 9.2% to 7.5%, which would be the lowest rate since 1990.\"It's certainly a lot more aggressive than anything they've done recently. I think it speaks volumes about just how much China has slowed down,\" said Anthony Muh, Asia Pacific head with AT Asset Management in Hong Kong.Liu Dongliang, a currency analyst at China Merchants Bank in Shenzhen, told Reuters: \"All my colleagues were shocked by such a big easing.\"Officials unveiled a 4 trillion yuan (\u00a3385bn) stimulus package earlier this month, but it has since emerged that only around a third of the money will come from the central government. The rest is expected to come from local authorities and private investment and the authorities are keen to see banks increase their lending to struggling enterprises.The central bank cut interest on a one-year loan by 1.08 percentage points, to 5.58%; the largest cut in the lending rate since October 1997. The deposit rate will fall to 2.52%, the biggest cut since June 1999. The reserve requirement rate for the largest banks will fall by 1 percentage point to 15.5%, while that for smaller banks will fall by 2 percentage points to 14.5%. The People's Bank of China said the measures, which take effect tomorrow, are meant to ensure sufficient liquidity in the banking system to ensure growth. There have now been four interest rate cuts in two and a half months, reflecting a shift by policymakers from tackling inflation to supporting growth. The annual consumer inflation rate more than tripled last year to 4.8% despite six interest rate rises and 10 increases in banks' reserve requirements. But it peaked this spring and the central bank's vice governor Yi Gang said earlier this month that the threat of inflation had \"basically vanished\". Niu Li, senior economist at the government thinktank the State Information Centre, suggested the scale of the change would be crucial to its success, telling Reuters: \"Compared with a series of small steps, a one-off big move is more effective in boosting confidence.\"But Michael Pettis, professor of finance at Peking University, warned: \"This relieves pressure on companies with cash flow problems, but doesn't address the fundamental problem in the economy - lack of demand ... There is not tremendous demand producers can't fulfil because of the high cost of capital, but overcapacity.\"Recent months have seen a steep decline in export growth and analysts believe that next year may see exports actually fall. The government hopes to offset the problem by boosting domestic consumption, but many argue that it will take years to shift spending significantly.Stephen Green, head of China research at Standard Chartered, wrote in a note: \"The hope will be that this move will trigger more buying interest for homes, as well as support investment, both private as well as the coming wave of public projects. But rate policy in this environment is a marginal factor - businesses think about possible returns on investments, and households will look at house price prospects.\"", "tags": ["Global economy", "China", "Business", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China slashes interest rates"},{"date": "2008-10-23T07:00:15Z", "country": "china", "content": "For my work, I need to check websites for news and information regularly. And every time I travelled to mainland China, I would often do the same, until I saw the blank page or time-out error message on the screen. Not being able to access some sites reminded me of where I was. Last month, when I was back in Hong Kong after a month spent in Beijing reporting the Olympic games, I found I automatically didn't visit those sites, and even when I did, I half-expected a blank screen to pop up.I believe many people who travel frequently to and from China have similar experiences. When I was stationed in Beijing for two years, I found the inability to access information freely often hindered my work. I felt helpless when my manager demanded to know why I hadn't reacted to certain news because, even if the news happened nearby, I had no way of knowing. My journalist colleagues shared the same burden. Eventually our HQ had to accept using material from foreign media to report domestic events in China.Many people in Hong Kong who complain about aspects of their daily lives would recognise that the country provides two fundamental things for ordinary people: security and freedom. People feel secure because they trust law and order and they feel free because information flows freely here.So if a law is used in such a way that it violates the freedom of citizens to access information, then we have the right to question whether that law is necessary, even if we trust the lawmaker's intention to protect. Earlier this month, the Hong Kong SAR (special administration region) government published a consultation paper on the comprehensive review of the control of obscene and indecent articles ordinance (COIAO). In the section concerning new media, it proposes that ISPs place filtering software to block obscene and indecent materials. It sounds reasonable: a government seeking to protect children and young people from pornographic and violent materials. But the proposal prompts many questions. Who is to decide which contents are pornographic or violent? How do you distinguish between adults and the under-aged? How do you protect adults' freedoms? Most importantly, how do you prevent this power being abused for political motives?The government insists the consultation is transparent and welcomes citizens' input. However, reading the proposal, one can't help but think this is a document giving the administration the power and convenience to establish an order whenever it deems it necessary. What worries people is the government mentality behind this. Clearly, it doesn't trust its own citizens. People fear this attempt to impose regulation on the internet is just the beginning. The government is behaving like a parent who has lost confidence in communication and education, and chosen instead to impose strict rules. At the beginning of the chapter New Forms of Media, the consultation paper claims:Given the emergence of new forms of media, particularly the growing popularity of the Internet, members of the public consider it important that measures are taken to protect youngsters from the dissemination of obscene and indecent materials on such new media systems.Who are the \"members of the public\"? Can the government claim they speak for the public? Do the public, especially children, as the government imagines; need new protection imposed by the authorities, from indecent materials?The authorities would be better advised to surf the internet more often and learn how people in Hong Kong use the web. People can seek and find the real obscene and indecent materials themselves, or through their circles. But do the same materials spread so quickly only because of the existence of the internet? In reality, similar materials are already easily available in Hong Kong. There are special fengyue (erotica) sections in some of the newspapers. There are adult magazines, wrapped in black plastic bags, available in most newsagents. There was no way to avoid them, even before the internet age. If the government wants to protect children and young people, they should equip our youngsters with the ability to make better judgments themselves with the help of communities, parents and schools.As a citizen of Hong Kong, what I don't want to see is, one day, when I click a link to a website, a blank page. We may not like certain sites, but we don't want to give the government the right to decide for us which sites we should and should not visit. If even this right is removed, what is the justification for \"one country, two systems\"?This article first appeared, in Chinese, here.", "tags": ["China", "UK civil liberties", "Internet", "Internet IPOs", "World news", "Censorship", "Technology", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Rose Luqiu Luwei: China's desire to impose internet regulation masks a need to check its citizens' freedom"},{"date": "2008-10-14T23:01:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "In the 63 years since he was created, Thomas the Tank Engine has travelled a long way from a branch line on the Island of Sodor. But the \"cheeky little engine\" is still entering uncharted territory, after a new deal was signed to export the children's television programme to China for the first time.The rights to four series of Thomas and Friends, already broadcast in more than 185 countries around the world, have been sold to Chinese state broadcaster CCTV by licensing company HIT Entertainment.It is the first deal between HIT, which also owns the rights to a host of other popular characters including Barney the Dinosaur and Bob the Builder, and a Chinese broadcaster. The country is seen as a potentially huge growth area by intellectual property groups that hold the rights to some of the best-known children's characters. Alison Homewood, HIT's executive vice president for worldwide TV distribution, said the show was \"one of the world's most popular and unique properties in the pre-school market\". The company has also appointed a licensing agent in China that will sign deals to produce toys and other spin offs. Publisher Egmont will produce a series of story books to tie in with the show. More than 200m books and more than 80m Thomas DVDs have been sold to date. The character was invented by the Rev W Awdry for his son Christopher and was given a new lease of life in 1984 with the introduction of the TV series, narrated by former Beatle Ringo Starr. The deal is one of hundreds that will be signed this week between broadcasters at the Mipcom TV festival in Cannes. BBC Worldwide, the corporation's commercial arm, unveiled a deal to make a Russian version of Top Gear.", "tags": ["Television industry", "Television", "China", "Media", "World news", "Television & radio", "TV merchandising", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Thomas the Tank Engine heads for China"},{"date": "2008-12-16T12:58:50Z", "country": "china", "content": "Chinese government officials have defended their decision to block several foreign news websites, including the BBC, as the country moves away from its pledge for uncensored internet access during the Beijing Olympics.The BBC, Voice of America, Hong Kong's Ming Pao News and Asiaweek have all had their websites blocked in China since early December. Restrictions had previously been lifted in August, when foreign journalists demanded full access during the Olympics.China's foreign ministry said today that it was within its rights to block sites that showed content illegal under the country's law. A foreign ministry spokesman, Liu Jianchao, said the Chinese government \"could not deny\" that it had issues with some sites.\"For instance, if a website refers to 'two Chinas' or refers to mainland China and Taiwan as two independent regions, we believe that violates China's anti-secession law, as well as other laws,\" Liu added.\"We hope that the relevant websites can comply with China's concerns and not do things contrary to Chinese law. This will help establish good co-operation between China and the relevant countries, as well as China and the relevant websites.\"China has previously blocked several high-profile websites but has not acknowledged an official ban, preferring to show users an error message for those sites instead.Access to the BBC's English-language site was briefly lifted in March, although the Chinese-language site remained blocked.A BBC spokeswoman said: \"We are disappointed that Chinese-speaking audiences in China are not able to get access to the BBC's impartial and editorially independent news and information through BBCChinese.com. In the runup to the 2008 Beijing Olympics, Chinese residents were able to have some access to BBCChinese.com but now there seem to be more difficulties in viewing the site. We will endeavour to continue working with the Chinese authorities to improve access for our Chinese-speaking audiences in China.\"Chinese authorities are understood to be far stricter with the Mandarin-language version of the BBC website at BBCChinese.com, which saw only slightly loosened restrictions during the Olympics. Both the BBC's Mandarin radio broadcasts and Mandarin-language site have been subject to restrictions, the latter for most of its 10-year existence.Online content is understood to be filtered by subject to web users in China, so news about Tibet or Chinese politics is censored.\"We're not surprised at this behaviour from the Chinese government,\" said a spokesman for the press freedom group Reporters Sans Fronti\u00e8res. \"The figures for Chinese control of the web are appalling. We were trying to raise awareness of this during the Olympics and even then it was very difficult to gain access to some sites, let alone for journalists travelling in China.\"The Foreign Correspondents Club of China said it had recorded 177 cases of journalists being obstructed in their work since the start of 2008, including Christian Science Monitor reporter Peter Ford being arrested after covering a Protestant prayer meeting in Henan province.RSF ranks China 167th out of the world's 173 countries for its record on press freedom. Only Vietnam, Cuba, Burma, Turkmenistan, North Korea and Eritrea rank lower.China recently overtook the US as the world's biggest internet market with an estimated 253 million web users, according to Internet World Stats.\u2022\u00a0To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.\u2022 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".", "tags": ["Digital media", "Media", "China", "World news", "Censorship", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China defends latest web censorship"},{"date": "2008-11-08T00:01:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "In what is perhaps the operatic equivalent of selling ice to the Inuit, Damon Albarn is planning to take his rapturously received Monkey: Journey to the West show on a world tour that will involve it going back east to China.Those behind the show, who hope it will prove a hit with mainstream family audiences during its forthcoming run at the O2 in London despite being narrated in Mandarin and based on an ancient Chinese folk tale, plan to have two versions of the show on a permanent global tour. The opera - overseen by Chinese director Chen Shi-Zheng with a score by Albarn and visuals, stage and costume design by his Gorillaz partner Jamie Hewlett - will tonight begin a month-long run at a tented village attached to the arena in Greenwich. Rob Hallett, senior vice-president of promoter AEG Live, said it had invested \u00a33m in the show and planned to take it across central Europe, Asia and the US next year. Noting the popularity of Cirque du Soleil in Las Vegas, he said a version of the show could play there tooTelling the story of Monkey's quest for redemption and enlightenment as he accompanies the monk Tripitaka on a mission to bring back sacred Bhuddist scrolls from India, the opera features 40 Chinese performers, including acrobats, dancers, contortionists and martial artists.The show has played to more than 100,000 people in Manchester, Paris, Charleston in the US and London's Royal Opera House. Chris Morrison, who has been Albarn's manager in Blur and various subsequent projects for 16 years, said he was \"absolutely blown away\" when he first saw the finished show.", "tags": ["China", "Classical music", "Music", "World news", "Culture", "Stage", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Albarn's Monkey returns to China"},{"date": "2008-12-23T10:40:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "A pair of giant pandas arrived in Taiwan from China today after a highly symbolic journey that highlights the gradual thawing of relations between the self-governing island and the mainland.In the latest example of so-called \"panda diplomacy\" \u2013 the most famous example of which saw Mao Zedong send a pair of the animals to the US in 1972 after Richard Nixon's historic visit \u2013 Tuan Tuan and Yuan Yuan were packed into special portable cages and loaded on to a charter flight in south-west China.Chinese state TV carried live footage as the plane, its interior decorated with panda pictures, took off from Chengdu airport in Sichuan province at the start of the three-hour flight to Taiwan.\"I wish them a happy life in Taiwan,\" said a tearful Qu Chunmao, one of the pandas' keepers at the Wolong breeding centre where they were raised.Another keeper and a vet flew with the animals to make sure they suffered no ill effects from the journey. The plane carried about half a tonne of Sichuanese bamboo and some steamed corn buns in case the pair initially reject the food served at the zoo in Taipei, Taiwan's capital.Taiwanese TV later showed its own live footage of the Eva Airways Boeing 747 touching down in Taipei.The four-year-old pandas \u2013 or \"furry goodwill ambassadors\", as one report called them \u2013 will spend a month in quarantine before emerging before the public in time for the lunar new year public holiday.Beijing first offered the pandas in 2005 but they were rejected by the then president, Chen Shui-bian, whose Democratic Progressive party (DPP) supported moves towards independence for Taiwan. The island split politically from the mainland in 1949 after nationalist forces routed by Mao's communists fled there.Taiwan's new president, Ma Ying-jeou, has tried to forge closer ties with China and accepted the pandas as a goodwill gesture.Pandas have long been an important symbol of Chinese diplomatic overtures to both allies and former foes. In the past, Beijing has given the animals to countries including North Korea, the Soviet Union and Japan.The dispatch of Tuan Tuan and Yuan Yuan has received heavy media coverage in China, beginning today with a pre-dawn ceremony at the breeding centre in which children dressed up as pandas performed a dance as the animals were loaded on to a truck. A special set of stamps has been issued marking the event.Some in Taiwan are suspicious of the gift. When put together, the names Tuan Tuan and Yuan Yuan mean \"reunion\" in Chinese. Beijing insists Taiwan is a rogue province and has long threatened to bring it back under Chinese rule by force.The lavish farewell ceremony at Chengdu airport, involving speeches and more dancing, carefully avoided any statements of overt political intent from Beijing.\"Tuan Tuan and Yuan Yuan will sow the seeds of peace, solidarity and friendship on Taiwan's soil,\" said Zheng Lizhong, from Beijing's Taiwan Affairs Office, according to the AFP news agency. The pandas were leaving \"with the good wishes of the 1.3 billion mainland compatriots\", Zheng said.While many Taiwanese want to see a reunion, others view it as a threat to the island's democratic system and higher living standards. A spokesman for the DPP, now in opposition, said the pandas \"will not cover up China's military threat against us\".China still has hundreds of missiles aimed at Taiwan but in recent years it has focused less on sabre rattling and more on increasing economic and social ties. A significant proportion of Taiwan's economy is now reliant on factories on the mainland, and Beijing has offered Taiwanese investors assistance to weather the global economic downturn.In the wake of direct shipping and postal links, this summer also saw the first direct flights across the Taiwan Straits since the civil war, with passenger services now running daily.", "tags": ["China", "Animals", "World news", "Taiwan", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China sends panda peace offering to Taiwan"},{"date": "2008-12-27T00:01:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Prosecutions began yesterday against six people accused of deliberately contaminating milk supplies with a toxic chemical believed to have made as many as 300,000 infants sick and killed at least six. The suspects include Zhang Yujun, described by state press as the \"Mr Big of Poison\", who is said to have manufactured and sold nitrogen-rich melamine to milk traders in the northern Hebei province for over a year, thereby allowing them to foil mandatory protein content tests. Zhang is accused of selling around 600 tons of a homemade melamine mixture between July 2007 and August 2008, earning 6.8m yuan (\u00a3678,000) from a product he knew to be poisonous, Xinhua news agency said. Tian Wenhua, the sacked chairwoman of the Sanlu Group, the bankrupt dairy firm at the centre of the scandal, will be tried with other members of staff in Shijiazhuang, in Hebei Province, over the next week, accused of \"selling fake and low-quality products\". Legal experts have said that she could face the death penalty. Melamine, used in the manufacture of industrial products including plastics, fertilisers, glues and flame retardants, boosts protein readings in poor-quality milk. Insiders have said that the problems in the dairy industry remain systemic. At present, there are no incentives for collectors - who drive trucks to \"milk stations\" before selling supplies on to the dairies - to ensure that their loads have not been contaminated by \"rogue\" operators. Although the Sanlu Group is the only firm directly implicated in the scandal, the products of several other big Chinese dairy firms have also been contaminated. China's Food Safety Law, originally scheduled to come into effect earlier this year, is expected to be submitted to the country's legislature in February 2009.", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Trials begin over contaminated milk in China"},{"date": "2009-02-01T00:01:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "The mellow little town of Dali is my favourite China oasis, my retreat when the pace of the cities seems too frenetic. It's the capital of the minority Bai people in the southwestern province of Yunnan. The centre of the walled old town is China-lite, a tourist-friendly strip of hippyish caf\u00e9s, but outside it's pretty and relaxed, and the countryside around is breathtaking: in the dramatic Cangshan mountain range to the west I came across esoteric temples, guesthouse retreats, hot springs and even a secret monastery of kung fu monks. At the huge Erhai Lake, just to the east, I sat and watched locals fishing with trained cormorants. As the closest uptight China gets to bohemia, the town has become the haunt of alternative types from the big cities, which makes the bar life intriguing, and I bumped into a few famous writers and bands, down to renew their creative juices. Chinese student dropouts turn up, learn to fire-juggle and dream about opening a caf\u00e9. But the place maintains, at least for the moment, its rural charm. The main street, cobbled Renmin Lu, for instance, looks the way Chinese roads do in the imagination - its terraced houses have decorative shutters and grass growing between the roof tiles; minority women in traditional dress squat beside their produce, while tailors and cobblers work in their little stores - and, towering over it all, are the mist-shrouded mountains. \u2022 Bad Traffic by Simon Lewis is published by Sort of Books, \u00a37.99. Dali is a four-hour bus trip from the nearest big city, Kunming, which is an hour's flight from Bangkok, or three hours from either Beijing or Shanghai. Flights cost around \u00a3120 from each of those cities. I recommend staying at the Moonshine Inn (www.bb-china.com), a well-run guesthouse in a traditional Bai courtyard house, or for a mountain retreat, try the Higherland Inn (www.higherland.com), accessible by cable car. Both have rooms for \u00a310-15 a night", "tags": ["China holidays", "Rest and relaxation", "Travel"], "title": "Simon Lewis in the Yunnan province"},{"date": "2009-02-01T00:01:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "The mellow little town of Dali is my favourite China oasis, my retreat when the pace of the cities seems too frenetic. It's the capital of the minority Bai people in the southwestern province of Yunnan. The centre of the walled old town is China-lite, a tourist-friendly strip of hippyish caf\u00e9s, but outside it's pretty and relaxed, and the countryside around is breathtaking: in the dramatic Cangshan mountain range to the west I came across esoteric temples, guesthouse retreats, hot springs and even a secret monastery of kung fu monks. At the huge Erhai Lake, just to the east, I sat and watched locals fishing with trained cormorants. As the closest uptight China gets to bohemia, the town has become the haunt of alternative types from the big cities, which makes the bar life intriguing, and I bumped into a few famous writers and bands, down to renew their creative juices. Chinese student dropouts turn up, learn to fire-juggle and dream about opening a caf\u00e9. But the place maintains, at least for the moment, its rural charm. The main street, cobbled Renmin Lu, for instance, looks the way Chinese roads do in the imagination - its terraced houses have decorative shutters and grass growing between the roof tiles; minority women in traditional dress squat beside their produce, while tailors and cobblers work in their little stores - and, towering over it all, are the mist-shrouded mountains. \u2022 Bad Traffic by Simon Lewis is published by Sort of Books, \u00a37.99. Dali is a four-hour bus trip from the nearest big city, Kunming, which is an hour's flight from Bangkok, or three hours from either Beijing or Shanghai. Flights cost around \u00a3120 from each of those cities. I recommend staying at the Moonshine Inn (www.bb-china.com), a well-run guesthouse in a traditional Bai courtyard house, or for a mountain retreat, try the Higherland Inn (www.higherland.com), accessible by cable car. Both have rooms for \u00a310-15 a night", "tags": ["China holidays", "Rest and relaxation", "Travel"], "title": "Simon Lewis in the Yunnan province"},{"date": "2009-03-25T09:47:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has blocked the video-sharing network YouTube after Beijing denounced footage appearing to show security forces beating Tibetans in Lhasa last year as \"a lie\".The authorities have blocked the service on previous occasions and, more frequently, have prevented access to specific videos.Google, which owns YouTube, confirmed that Beijing halted access to the site this week but said it did not know why.\"We are looking into it and working to ensure that the service is restored as soon as possible,\" spokesman Scott Rubin said in an email to the Associated Press.It is not clear why China has blocked it now. But the state news agency, Xinhua, yesterday condemned a video released by the Tibetan government-in-exile, which was posted on YouTube recently .The government-in-exile said the video showed the brutal beating of Tibetan protesters and the wounds of a young man called Tendar. It allegeed he was detained for attempting to stop police beating a monk, and later died of his injuries.But Xinhua, citing an unidentified official with China's Tibetan regional government, said that the video was a lie.\"Technology experts found that video and audio was edited to piece together different places, times and people,\" said the official.He said that an officer had \"defeated\" a man named Tendar, but acted in self-defence after the man slashed him with a knife and ignored several warnings to stop. He added that Tendar \"died from a disease at home awaiting court trial\"; that the person shown in the video was not Tendar; and that the wounds shown were in any case fake.\"The Dalai Lama group is used to fabricating lies to deceive the international community and the aim of this video is to hide the truth of the March 14th riot,\" he said.Tibet is a particularly sensitive issue at the moment because this month marks one year since fatal riots in Lhasa sparked wider unrest across Tibetan areas, and 50 years since a failed uprising against Chinese rule. Large parts of western China are still under heavy security.A foreign ministry spokesman, Qin Gang, told reporters yesterday that he did not know about the block, adding: \"Many people have a false impression that the Chinese government fears the internet. In fact, it is just the opposite.\"Citing the country's 300 million internet users - the world's largest online population - and 100m blogs, he added: \"China's internet is open enough, but also needs to be regulated by law in order to prevent the spread of harmful information and for national security.\"One blogger commented wryly that Qin had spoken accurately, because \"it has always been that the internet fears the Chinese government\".In January, the authorities launched a crackdown on \"vulgar\" content which led to the closure of hundreds of sites, including a popular blog hosting site. Critics argue that the campaign is designed to intimidate bloggers and discourage dissent. Several other countries have blocked YouTube in the past.", "tags": ["World news", "China", "Tibet", "YouTube", "Digital media", "Media", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China blocks YouTube"},{"date": "2009-02-01T00:01:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "The mellow little town of Dali is my favourite China oasis, my retreat when the pace of the cities seems too frenetic. It's the capital of the minority Bai people in the southwestern province of Yunnan. The centre of the walled old town is China-lite, a tourist-friendly strip of hippyish caf\u00e9s, but outside it's pretty and relaxed, and the countryside around is breathtaking: in the dramatic Cangshan mountain range to the west I came across esoteric temples, guesthouse retreats, hot springs and even a secret monastery of kung fu monks. At the huge Erhai Lake, just to the east, I sat and watched locals fishing with trained cormorants. As the closest uptight China gets to bohemia, the town has become the haunt of alternative types from the big cities, which makes the bar life intriguing, and I bumped into a few famous writers and bands, down to renew their creative juices. Chinese student dropouts turn up, learn to fire-juggle and dream about opening a caf\u00e9. But the place maintains, at least for the moment, its rural charm. The main street, cobbled Renmin Lu, for instance, looks the way Chinese roads do in the imagination - its terraced houses have decorative shutters and grass growing between the roof tiles; minority women in traditional dress squat beside their produce, while tailors and cobblers work in their little stores - and, towering over it all, are the mist-shrouded mountains. \u2022 Bad Traffic by Simon Lewis is published by Sort of Books, \u00a37.99. Dali is a four-hour bus trip from the nearest big city, Kunming, which is an hour's flight from Bangkok, or three hours from either Beijing or Shanghai. Flights cost around \u00a3120 from each of those cities. I recommend staying at the Moonshine Inn (www.bb-china.com), a well-run guesthouse in a traditional Bai courtyard house, or for a mountain retreat, try the Higherland Inn (www.higherland.com), accessible by cable car. Both have rooms for \u00a310-15 a night", "tags": ["China holidays", "Rest and relaxation", "Travel"], "title": "Simon Lewis in the Yunnan province"},{"date": "2009-03-25T09:47:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has blocked the video-sharing network YouTube after Beijing denounced footage appearing to show security forces beating Tibetans in Lhasa last year as \"a lie\".The authorities have blocked the service on previous occasions and, more frequently, have prevented access to specific videos.Google, which owns YouTube, confirmed that Beijing halted access to the site this week but said it did not know why.\"We are looking into it and working to ensure that the service is restored as soon as possible,\" spokesman Scott Rubin said in an email to the Associated Press.It is not clear why China has blocked it now. But the state news agency, Xinhua, yesterday condemned a video released by the Tibetan government-in-exile, which was posted on YouTube recently .The government-in-exile said the video showed the brutal beating of Tibetan protesters and the wounds of a young man called Tendar. It allegeed he was detained for attempting to stop police beating a monk, and later died of his injuries.But Xinhua, citing an unidentified official with China's Tibetan regional government, said that the video was a lie.\"Technology experts found that video and audio was edited to piece together different places, times and people,\" said the official.He said that an officer had \"defeated\" a man named Tendar, but acted in self-defence after the man slashed him with a knife and ignored several warnings to stop. He added that Tendar \"died from a disease at home awaiting court trial\"; that the person shown in the video was not Tendar; and that the wounds shown were in any case fake.\"The Dalai Lama group is used to fabricating lies to deceive the international community and the aim of this video is to hide the truth of the March 14th riot,\" he said.Tibet is a particularly sensitive issue at the moment because this month marks one year since fatal riots in Lhasa sparked wider unrest across Tibetan areas, and 50 years since a failed uprising against Chinese rule. Large parts of western China are still under heavy security.A foreign ministry spokesman, Qin Gang, told reporters yesterday that he did not know about the block, adding: \"Many people have a false impression that the Chinese government fears the internet. In fact, it is just the opposite.\"Citing the country's 300 million internet users - the world's largest online population - and 100m blogs, he added: \"China's internet is open enough, but also needs to be regulated by law in order to prevent the spread of harmful information and for national security.\"One blogger commented wryly that Qin had spoken accurately, because \"it has always been that the internet fears the Chinese government\".In January, the authorities launched a crackdown on \"vulgar\" content which led to the closure of hundreds of sites, including a popular blog hosting site. Critics argue that the campaign is designed to intimidate bloggers and discourage dissent. Several other countries have blocked YouTube in the past.", "tags": ["World news", "China", "Tibet", "YouTube", "Digital media", "Media", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China blocks YouTube"},{"date": "2009-02-16T13:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": " The debate about whether to engage China is over \u2013 we are now about 20 years into a common-law marriage. The debate about whether China will join the international community also is over. Beijing has been signing up for multilateral forums as if they were going out of style. The great challenge for US secretary of state Hillary Clinton, when she visits Beijing from Friday, is to influence China to play a larger role in preventing global catastrophes in these areas: the economy, nuclear proliferation, climate change and pandemic disease.China deserves high marks for acting quickly on the global economic crisis. Beijing turned on a dime from trying to cool down its economy last summer to enacting potentially potent stimulus measures over recent months. Some measures, such as a plan to invest $123bn in universal health insurance over the next three years, could lay the foundation for a social safety net that would help establish a broad Chinese middle class, which would support the growth of the American middle class by fostering a robust market for US exports. Moreover, working with the International Monetary Fund, Beijing is helping to bail out Pakistan, whose economic stability the US is concerned about, to put it mildly.The politically challenging issues of currency, intellectual property protection and the potential \"Buy American\" provisions of the US economic stimulus package remain and could get worse, but they have proved manageable through regular consultation with Congress and steady dialogue with Beijing.On efforts to prevent potential nuclear catastrophe, China's record is mixed. Beijing is playing an invaluable leadership role in hosting the six-party talks on North Korea's nuclear programme and has been instrumental in breaking specific logjams. But Beijing still cares much more about stability on the Korean peninsula than it does about North Korea's nukes (which are not aimed at China, after all). Whether and under what conditions Pyongyang would give up its weapons, and how much arm-twisting China would be willing to do, are unclear. Clinton is sure to make a strong pitch for more Chinese pressure, but here Beijing and Washington have at least agreed on a path forward.In contrast, on nuclear catastrophe scenario number two \u2013 Iran's programme \u2013 China and the US sharply diverge. China repeatedly has blocked US efforts in the UN security council to impose tough sanctions on Tehran. Beijing does not want to see a Middle East made even more dangerous by complicated nuclear dynamics, but China's immediate and pressing lust for energy supplies will leave its anti-proliferation policies compromised at best. Prospects for Clinton to make headway on this issue seem dim.That brings us to climate change. Global warming will demand the most creative and intense diplomacy the Obama team has to offer. China's energy demand is mind-blowing in scale. From 2001 through 2007, China's consumption increased by an amount equal to energy use in all of Latin America, according to Asia energy expert Mikkal Herberg.China is firmly opposed to hard targets for reducing its ballooning greenhouse gas emissions, arguing, with reason, that the west caused the global warming crisis and bears the burden of responsibility. But without China on board, the world will not be able to reduce greenhouse gases to the level that scientists think is necessary to avoid catastrophic effects.You know things are bad when avian flu seems like a bright spot. But there's reason for guarded optimism that China will handle outbreaks responsibly: a Chinese doctor heads the World Health Organisation, more money is headed for rural healthcare in China, and Beijing learned from the Sars crisis earlier this decade that the potentially devastating effect of a pandemic is exacerbated when its early cases are covered up.What tack, then, should Clinton take in her first trip abroad as secretary of state to maximise the chances of progress in preventing these global catastrophes?First, while making plain our differences \u2013 on human rights, China's military buildup, currency, Darfur, Tibet and other issues \u2013 she should make clear that China is a strategic partner in crucial areas and that the US welcomes China's integration into the international system as a responsible, respected and engaged stakeholder. She also should pave the way for new, bold initiatives based on \"strategic collaboration\". One potentially fruitful area is clean-energy research, with the US and China, or a group of the major energy consumers, joining forces.In her Senate confirmation hearing, Clinton indicated that in dealing with other nations she would maintain her focus on the entire relationship and not allow single issues to set the tone and direction. That is the right approach, but that does not prevent her from prioritising US interests around these four challenges in her talks in Beijing. It is in the nature of our deeply interdependent relationship to have a long list of issues that we want action on from China, but we are likely to see more progress if we can be clear about which are most important.Negotiating with China is never easy. But neither China nor the US can prevent these catastrophes alone.", "tags": ["Hillary Clinton", "China", "US foreign policy", "Obama administration", "Climate change", "Global economy", "Nuclear weapons", "Currencies", "Global recession", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "United Nations", "US news", "World news", "Environment", "Business", "US politics", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Nina Hachigian: China and the US need to work together to prevent global catastrophe"},{"date": "2009-02-01T00:01:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "The mellow little town of Dali is my favourite China oasis, my retreat when the pace of the cities seems too frenetic. It's the capital of the minority Bai people in the southwestern province of Yunnan. The centre of the walled old town is China-lite, a tourist-friendly strip of hippyish caf\u00e9s, but outside it's pretty and relaxed, and the countryside around is breathtaking: in the dramatic Cangshan mountain range to the west I came across esoteric temples, guesthouse retreats, hot springs and even a secret monastery of kung fu monks. At the huge Erhai Lake, just to the east, I sat and watched locals fishing with trained cormorants. As the closest uptight China gets to bohemia, the town has become the haunt of alternative types from the big cities, which makes the bar life intriguing, and I bumped into a few famous writers and bands, down to renew their creative juices. Chinese student dropouts turn up, learn to fire-juggle and dream about opening a caf\u00e9. But the place maintains, at least for the moment, its rural charm. The main street, cobbled Renmin Lu, for instance, looks the way Chinese roads do in the imagination - its terraced houses have decorative shutters and grass growing between the roof tiles; minority women in traditional dress squat beside their produce, while tailors and cobblers work in their little stores - and, towering over it all, are the mist-shrouded mountains. \u2022 Bad Traffic by Simon Lewis is published by Sort of Books, \u00a37.99. Dali is a four-hour bus trip from the nearest big city, Kunming, which is an hour's flight from Bangkok, or three hours from either Beijing or Shanghai. Flights cost around \u00a3120 from each of those cities. I recommend staying at the Moonshine Inn (www.bb-china.com), a well-run guesthouse in a traditional Bai courtyard house, or for a mountain retreat, try the Higherland Inn (www.higherland.com), accessible by cable car. Both have rooms for \u00a310-15 a night", "tags": ["China holidays", "Rest and relaxation", "Travel"], "title": "Simon Lewis in the Yunnan province"},{"date": "2009-03-25T09:47:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has blocked the video-sharing network YouTube after Beijing denounced footage appearing to show security forces beating Tibetans in Lhasa last year as \"a lie\".The authorities have blocked the service on previous occasions and, more frequently, have prevented access to specific videos.Google, which owns YouTube, confirmed that Beijing halted access to the site this week but said it did not know why.\"We are looking into it and working to ensure that the service is restored as soon as possible,\" spokesman Scott Rubin said in an email to the Associated Press.It is not clear why China has blocked it now. But the state news agency, Xinhua, yesterday condemned a video released by the Tibetan government-in-exile, which was posted on YouTube recently .The government-in-exile said the video showed the brutal beating of Tibetan protesters and the wounds of a young man called Tendar. It allegeed he was detained for attempting to stop police beating a monk, and later died of his injuries.But Xinhua, citing an unidentified official with China's Tibetan regional government, said that the video was a lie.\"Technology experts found that video and audio was edited to piece together different places, times and people,\" said the official.He said that an officer had \"defeated\" a man named Tendar, but acted in self-defence after the man slashed him with a knife and ignored several warnings to stop. He added that Tendar \"died from a disease at home awaiting court trial\"; that the person shown in the video was not Tendar; and that the wounds shown were in any case fake.\"The Dalai Lama group is used to fabricating lies to deceive the international community and the aim of this video is to hide the truth of the March 14th riot,\" he said.Tibet is a particularly sensitive issue at the moment because this month marks one year since fatal riots in Lhasa sparked wider unrest across Tibetan areas, and 50 years since a failed uprising against Chinese rule. Large parts of western China are still under heavy security.A foreign ministry spokesman, Qin Gang, told reporters yesterday that he did not know about the block, adding: \"Many people have a false impression that the Chinese government fears the internet. In fact, it is just the opposite.\"Citing the country's 300 million internet users - the world's largest online population - and 100m blogs, he added: \"China's internet is open enough, but also needs to be regulated by law in order to prevent the spread of harmful information and for national security.\"One blogger commented wryly that Qin had spoken accurately, because \"it has always been that the internet fears the Chinese government\".In January, the authorities launched a crackdown on \"vulgar\" content which led to the closure of hundreds of sites, including a popular blog hosting site. Critics argue that the campaign is designed to intimidate bloggers and discourage dissent. Several other countries have blocked YouTube in the past.", "tags": ["World news", "China", "Tibet", "YouTube", "Digital media", "Media", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China blocks YouTube"},{"date": "2009-02-16T13:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": " The debate about whether to engage China is over \u2013 we are now about 20 years into a common-law marriage. The debate about whether China will join the international community also is over. Beijing has been signing up for multilateral forums as if they were going out of style. The great challenge for US secretary of state Hillary Clinton, when she visits Beijing from Friday, is to influence China to play a larger role in preventing global catastrophes in these areas: the economy, nuclear proliferation, climate change and pandemic disease.China deserves high marks for acting quickly on the global economic crisis. Beijing turned on a dime from trying to cool down its economy last summer to enacting potentially potent stimulus measures over recent months. Some measures, such as a plan to invest $123bn in universal health insurance over the next three years, could lay the foundation for a social safety net that would help establish a broad Chinese middle class, which would support the growth of the American middle class by fostering a robust market for US exports. Moreover, working with the International Monetary Fund, Beijing is helping to bail out Pakistan, whose economic stability the US is concerned about, to put it mildly.The politically challenging issues of currency, intellectual property protection and the potential \"Buy American\" provisions of the US economic stimulus package remain and could get worse, but they have proved manageable through regular consultation with Congress and steady dialogue with Beijing.On efforts to prevent potential nuclear catastrophe, China's record is mixed. Beijing is playing an invaluable leadership role in hosting the six-party talks on North Korea's nuclear programme and has been instrumental in breaking specific logjams. But Beijing still cares much more about stability on the Korean peninsula than it does about North Korea's nukes (which are not aimed at China, after all). Whether and under what conditions Pyongyang would give up its weapons, and how much arm-twisting China would be willing to do, are unclear. Clinton is sure to make a strong pitch for more Chinese pressure, but here Beijing and Washington have at least agreed on a path forward.In contrast, on nuclear catastrophe scenario number two \u2013 Iran's programme \u2013 China and the US sharply diverge. China repeatedly has blocked US efforts in the UN security council to impose tough sanctions on Tehran. Beijing does not want to see a Middle East made even more dangerous by complicated nuclear dynamics, but China's immediate and pressing lust for energy supplies will leave its anti-proliferation policies compromised at best. Prospects for Clinton to make headway on this issue seem dim.That brings us to climate change. Global warming will demand the most creative and intense diplomacy the Obama team has to offer. China's energy demand is mind-blowing in scale. From 2001 through 2007, China's consumption increased by an amount equal to energy use in all of Latin America, according to Asia energy expert Mikkal Herberg.China is firmly opposed to hard targets for reducing its ballooning greenhouse gas emissions, arguing, with reason, that the west caused the global warming crisis and bears the burden of responsibility. But without China on board, the world will not be able to reduce greenhouse gases to the level that scientists think is necessary to avoid catastrophic effects.You know things are bad when avian flu seems like a bright spot. But there's reason for guarded optimism that China will handle outbreaks responsibly: a Chinese doctor heads the World Health Organisation, more money is headed for rural healthcare in China, and Beijing learned from the Sars crisis earlier this decade that the potentially devastating effect of a pandemic is exacerbated when its early cases are covered up.What tack, then, should Clinton take in her first trip abroad as secretary of state to maximise the chances of progress in preventing these global catastrophes?First, while making plain our differences \u2013 on human rights, China's military buildup, currency, Darfur, Tibet and other issues \u2013 she should make clear that China is a strategic partner in crucial areas and that the US welcomes China's integration into the international system as a responsible, respected and engaged stakeholder. She also should pave the way for new, bold initiatives based on \"strategic collaboration\". One potentially fruitful area is clean-energy research, with the US and China, or a group of the major energy consumers, joining forces.In her Senate confirmation hearing, Clinton indicated that in dealing with other nations she would maintain her focus on the entire relationship and not allow single issues to set the tone and direction. That is the right approach, but that does not prevent her from prioritising US interests around these four challenges in her talks in Beijing. It is in the nature of our deeply interdependent relationship to have a long list of issues that we want action on from China, but we are likely to see more progress if we can be clear about which are most important.Negotiating with China is never easy. But neither China nor the US can prevent these catastrophes alone.", "tags": ["Hillary Clinton", "China", "US foreign policy", "Obama administration", "Climate change", "Global economy", "Nuclear weapons", "Currencies", "Global recession", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "United Nations", "US news", "World news", "Environment", "Business", "US politics", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Nina Hachigian: China and the US need to work together to prevent global catastrophe"},{"date": "2009-02-06T17:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "This January the outgoing Bush Administration filed yet another suit at the World Trade Organization (WTO) against China's trade and industrial policies. In its first 10 days, the Obama administration came close to charging the Chinese with currency manipulation. Rather than trying to beat back the Chinese growth miracle, the US should look to the Chinese for guidance on how to recharge our economy.In his new book, Bad Samaritans: The Myth of Free Trade and the Secret History of Capitalism, Cambridge university economist Ha-Joon Chang writes that the US didn't slacken support for industry until after the US became a dominant industrial power.Readers will be intrigued to learn that in 1791 it was none other than US Treasury secretary Alexander Hamilton who wrote an influential report calling for policy to shield US firms from foreigners in order to build national companies. Though solidified later by Abraham Lincoln, writes Chang, Hamilton charted the course of US economic policy until the end of the second world war. Chang shows that Japan, South Korea and Taiwan went on to adapt such policies in the second half of the 20th century, leading those nations to prosperity by the century's end.China's growth miracle eclipses all those before it. It is the result of strategic trade and industrial policies largely borrowed from the policies in the US and other East Asian nations that Chang describes. The Chinese have put enormous support into strategic industries such as textiles, high technology and cars, as well as into research and development, and science and technology development. This orchestration of government policy has brought China from the hundredth most competitive high technology export economy to number one in just 25 years. Thanks to these policies, Lenovo, Haier and other Chinese firms are household names. Soon, you could be driving a car from China's First Auto Works.Following a WTO suit where the US successfully challenged a Chinese programme for car makers, in January the US challenged China's \"famous brands\" programme that fosters Chinese firms into becoming globally-recognised names. The US has to stop blaming the Chinese for its problems and learn from the Chinese what the Chinese learned from us. As part of the US plan to get out of the slump, the US needs to revive industrial and innovation policies toward strategic industries and work to make our products more competitive. At this writing, the proposed stimulus in the US amounts to 6% of GDP, with just 10% of the proposed $825bn going toward public infrastructure and technology development. China, which was not hit as hard by the US crisis, is spending 14% of GDP (or $585bn) on a stimulus, the majority of which will go toward infrastructure and technology.Learning from the Chinese by reviving strategic industrial and trade policy will also help end the deadlock in the never-ending WTO negotiations. One of the reasons why WTO talks have been stalled has been that the Bush administration wanted the negotiations to put an end to the strategic trade and industrial policy still permitted under the WTO. China, India, South Africa, Brazil and other emerging nations who have been successfully deploying such policies, saw US intransigence as complete hypocrisy and have halted the talks.A good place to start building productive capacity in the US is in green technologies like renewable energy, energy efficiency, and clean cars. According to a new report by the Political Economy Research Institute (PERI) at the University of Massachusetts titled Green Recovery: A Programme to Create Good Jobs and Start Building a Low-Carbon Economy, close to 17 jobs could be created for every $1m in green industry outlays (as opposed to 5.5 jobs per $1m in spending for the oil and coal industries). Thus, $100bn in green recovery outlays would not only stimulate the economy, revive industry, help slash pollution, and decrease our dependence on foreign oil, but would also create 1.7 million jobs.The Obama Administration should drop the Bush-era suit against China at the WTO and back off from calling China a currency manipulator, at least for now. All countries need all they policy space they can muster to get their economies back on track in the midst of the crisis, especially the US. Like the Chinese we should focus on boosting domestic demand and reviving our industry.", "tags": ["China", "US economic growth and recession", "Obama administration", "WTO", "US economy", "World news", "US news", "US politics", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Kevin Gallagher: China is a model for recharging the US economy"},{"date": "2009-02-01T00:01:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "The mellow little town of Dali is my favourite China oasis, my retreat when the pace of the cities seems too frenetic. It's the capital of the minority Bai people in the southwestern province of Yunnan. The centre of the walled old town is China-lite, a tourist-friendly strip of hippyish caf\u00e9s, but outside it's pretty and relaxed, and the countryside around is breathtaking: in the dramatic Cangshan mountain range to the west I came across esoteric temples, guesthouse retreats, hot springs and even a secret monastery of kung fu monks. At the huge Erhai Lake, just to the east, I sat and watched locals fishing with trained cormorants. As the closest uptight China gets to bohemia, the town has become the haunt of alternative types from the big cities, which makes the bar life intriguing, and I bumped into a few famous writers and bands, down to renew their creative juices. Chinese student dropouts turn up, learn to fire-juggle and dream about opening a caf\u00e9. But the place maintains, at least for the moment, its rural charm. The main street, cobbled Renmin Lu, for instance, looks the way Chinese roads do in the imagination - its terraced houses have decorative shutters and grass growing between the roof tiles; minority women in traditional dress squat beside their produce, while tailors and cobblers work in their little stores - and, towering over it all, are the mist-shrouded mountains. \u2022 Bad Traffic by Simon Lewis is published by Sort of Books, \u00a37.99. Dali is a four-hour bus trip from the nearest big city, Kunming, which is an hour's flight from Bangkok, or three hours from either Beijing or Shanghai. Flights cost around \u00a3120 from each of those cities. I recommend staying at the Moonshine Inn (www.bb-china.com), a well-run guesthouse in a traditional Bai courtyard house, or for a mountain retreat, try the Higherland Inn (www.higherland.com), accessible by cable car. Both have rooms for \u00a310-15 a night", "tags": ["China holidays", "Rest and relaxation", "Travel"], "title": "Simon Lewis in the Yunnan province"},{"date": "2009-03-25T09:47:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has blocked the video-sharing network YouTube after Beijing denounced footage appearing to show security forces beating Tibetans in Lhasa last year as \"a lie\".The authorities have blocked the service on previous occasions and, more frequently, have prevented access to specific videos.Google, which owns YouTube, confirmed that Beijing halted access to the site this week but said it did not know why.\"We are looking into it and working to ensure that the service is restored as soon as possible,\" spokesman Scott Rubin said in an email to the Associated Press.It is not clear why China has blocked it now. But the state news agency, Xinhua, yesterday condemned a video released by the Tibetan government-in-exile, which was posted on YouTube recently .The government-in-exile said the video showed the brutal beating of Tibetan protesters and the wounds of a young man called Tendar. It allegeed he was detained for attempting to stop police beating a monk, and later died of his injuries.But Xinhua, citing an unidentified official with China's Tibetan regional government, said that the video was a lie.\"Technology experts found that video and audio was edited to piece together different places, times and people,\" said the official.He said that an officer had \"defeated\" a man named Tendar, but acted in self-defence after the man slashed him with a knife and ignored several warnings to stop. He added that Tendar \"died from a disease at home awaiting court trial\"; that the person shown in the video was not Tendar; and that the wounds shown were in any case fake.\"The Dalai Lama group is used to fabricating lies to deceive the international community and the aim of this video is to hide the truth of the March 14th riot,\" he said.Tibet is a particularly sensitive issue at the moment because this month marks one year since fatal riots in Lhasa sparked wider unrest across Tibetan areas, and 50 years since a failed uprising against Chinese rule. Large parts of western China are still under heavy security.A foreign ministry spokesman, Qin Gang, told reporters yesterday that he did not know about the block, adding: \"Many people have a false impression that the Chinese government fears the internet. In fact, it is just the opposite.\"Citing the country's 300 million internet users - the world's largest online population - and 100m blogs, he added: \"China's internet is open enough, but also needs to be regulated by law in order to prevent the spread of harmful information and for national security.\"One blogger commented wryly that Qin had spoken accurately, because \"it has always been that the internet fears the Chinese government\".In January, the authorities launched a crackdown on \"vulgar\" content which led to the closure of hundreds of sites, including a popular blog hosting site. Critics argue that the campaign is designed to intimidate bloggers and discourage dissent. Several other countries have blocked YouTube in the past.", "tags": ["World news", "China", "Tibet", "YouTube", "Digital media", "Media", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China blocks YouTube"},{"date": "2009-02-16T13:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": " The debate about whether to engage China is over \u2013 we are now about 20 years into a common-law marriage. The debate about whether China will join the international community also is over. Beijing has been signing up for multilateral forums as if they were going out of style. The great challenge for US secretary of state Hillary Clinton, when she visits Beijing from Friday, is to influence China to play a larger role in preventing global catastrophes in these areas: the economy, nuclear proliferation, climate change and pandemic disease.China deserves high marks for acting quickly on the global economic crisis. Beijing turned on a dime from trying to cool down its economy last summer to enacting potentially potent stimulus measures over recent months. Some measures, such as a plan to invest $123bn in universal health insurance over the next three years, could lay the foundation for a social safety net that would help establish a broad Chinese middle class, which would support the growth of the American middle class by fostering a robust market for US exports. Moreover, working with the International Monetary Fund, Beijing is helping to bail out Pakistan, whose economic stability the US is concerned about, to put it mildly.The politically challenging issues of currency, intellectual property protection and the potential \"Buy American\" provisions of the US economic stimulus package remain and could get worse, but they have proved manageable through regular consultation with Congress and steady dialogue with Beijing.On efforts to prevent potential nuclear catastrophe, China's record is mixed. Beijing is playing an invaluable leadership role in hosting the six-party talks on North Korea's nuclear programme and has been instrumental in breaking specific logjams. But Beijing still cares much more about stability on the Korean peninsula than it does about North Korea's nukes (which are not aimed at China, after all). Whether and under what conditions Pyongyang would give up its weapons, and how much arm-twisting China would be willing to do, are unclear. Clinton is sure to make a strong pitch for more Chinese pressure, but here Beijing and Washington have at least agreed on a path forward.In contrast, on nuclear catastrophe scenario number two \u2013 Iran's programme \u2013 China and the US sharply diverge. China repeatedly has blocked US efforts in the UN security council to impose tough sanctions on Tehran. Beijing does not want to see a Middle East made even more dangerous by complicated nuclear dynamics, but China's immediate and pressing lust for energy supplies will leave its anti-proliferation policies compromised at best. Prospects for Clinton to make headway on this issue seem dim.That brings us to climate change. Global warming will demand the most creative and intense diplomacy the Obama team has to offer. China's energy demand is mind-blowing in scale. From 2001 through 2007, China's consumption increased by an amount equal to energy use in all of Latin America, according to Asia energy expert Mikkal Herberg.China is firmly opposed to hard targets for reducing its ballooning greenhouse gas emissions, arguing, with reason, that the west caused the global warming crisis and bears the burden of responsibility. But without China on board, the world will not be able to reduce greenhouse gases to the level that scientists think is necessary to avoid catastrophic effects.You know things are bad when avian flu seems like a bright spot. But there's reason for guarded optimism that China will handle outbreaks responsibly: a Chinese doctor heads the World Health Organisation, more money is headed for rural healthcare in China, and Beijing learned from the Sars crisis earlier this decade that the potentially devastating effect of a pandemic is exacerbated when its early cases are covered up.What tack, then, should Clinton take in her first trip abroad as secretary of state to maximise the chances of progress in preventing these global catastrophes?First, while making plain our differences \u2013 on human rights, China's military buildup, currency, Darfur, Tibet and other issues \u2013 she should make clear that China is a strategic partner in crucial areas and that the US welcomes China's integration into the international system as a responsible, respected and engaged stakeholder. She also should pave the way for new, bold initiatives based on \"strategic collaboration\". One potentially fruitful area is clean-energy research, with the US and China, or a group of the major energy consumers, joining forces.In her Senate confirmation hearing, Clinton indicated that in dealing with other nations she would maintain her focus on the entire relationship and not allow single issues to set the tone and direction. That is the right approach, but that does not prevent her from prioritising US interests around these four challenges in her talks in Beijing. It is in the nature of our deeply interdependent relationship to have a long list of issues that we want action on from China, but we are likely to see more progress if we can be clear about which are most important.Negotiating with China is never easy. But neither China nor the US can prevent these catastrophes alone.", "tags": ["Hillary Clinton", "China", "US foreign policy", "Obama administration", "Climate change", "Global economy", "Nuclear weapons", "Currencies", "Global recession", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "United Nations", "US news", "World news", "Environment", "Business", "US politics", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Nina Hachigian: China and the US need to work together to prevent global catastrophe"},{"date": "2009-02-06T17:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "This January the outgoing Bush Administration filed yet another suit at the World Trade Organization (WTO) against China's trade and industrial policies. In its first 10 days, the Obama administration came close to charging the Chinese with currency manipulation. Rather than trying to beat back the Chinese growth miracle, the US should look to the Chinese for guidance on how to recharge our economy.In his new book, Bad Samaritans: The Myth of Free Trade and the Secret History of Capitalism, Cambridge university economist Ha-Joon Chang writes that the US didn't slacken support for industry until after the US became a dominant industrial power.Readers will be intrigued to learn that in 1791 it was none other than US Treasury secretary Alexander Hamilton who wrote an influential report calling for policy to shield US firms from foreigners in order to build national companies. Though solidified later by Abraham Lincoln, writes Chang, Hamilton charted the course of US economic policy until the end of the second world war. Chang shows that Japan, South Korea and Taiwan went on to adapt such policies in the second half of the 20th century, leading those nations to prosperity by the century's end.China's growth miracle eclipses all those before it. It is the result of strategic trade and industrial policies largely borrowed from the policies in the US and other East Asian nations that Chang describes. The Chinese have put enormous support into strategic industries such as textiles, high technology and cars, as well as into research and development, and science and technology development. This orchestration of government policy has brought China from the hundredth most competitive high technology export economy to number one in just 25 years. Thanks to these policies, Lenovo, Haier and other Chinese firms are household names. Soon, you could be driving a car from China's First Auto Works.Following a WTO suit where the US successfully challenged a Chinese programme for car makers, in January the US challenged China's \"famous brands\" programme that fosters Chinese firms into becoming globally-recognised names. The US has to stop blaming the Chinese for its problems and learn from the Chinese what the Chinese learned from us. As part of the US plan to get out of the slump, the US needs to revive industrial and innovation policies toward strategic industries and work to make our products more competitive. At this writing, the proposed stimulus in the US amounts to 6% of GDP, with just 10% of the proposed $825bn going toward public infrastructure and technology development. China, which was not hit as hard by the US crisis, is spending 14% of GDP (or $585bn) on a stimulus, the majority of which will go toward infrastructure and technology.Learning from the Chinese by reviving strategic industrial and trade policy will also help end the deadlock in the never-ending WTO negotiations. One of the reasons why WTO talks have been stalled has been that the Bush administration wanted the negotiations to put an end to the strategic trade and industrial policy still permitted under the WTO. China, India, South Africa, Brazil and other emerging nations who have been successfully deploying such policies, saw US intransigence as complete hypocrisy and have halted the talks.A good place to start building productive capacity in the US is in green technologies like renewable energy, energy efficiency, and clean cars. According to a new report by the Political Economy Research Institute (PERI) at the University of Massachusetts titled Green Recovery: A Programme to Create Good Jobs and Start Building a Low-Carbon Economy, close to 17 jobs could be created for every $1m in green industry outlays (as opposed to 5.5 jobs per $1m in spending for the oil and coal industries). Thus, $100bn in green recovery outlays would not only stimulate the economy, revive industry, help slash pollution, and decrease our dependence on foreign oil, but would also create 1.7 million jobs.The Obama Administration should drop the Bush-era suit against China at the WTO and back off from calling China a currency manipulator, at least for now. All countries need all they policy space they can muster to get their economies back on track in the midst of the crisis, especially the US. Like the Chinese we should focus on boosting domestic demand and reviving our industry.", "tags": ["China", "US economic growth and recession", "Obama administration", "WTO", "US economy", "World news", "US news", "US politics", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Kevin Gallagher: China is a model for recharging the US economy"},{"date": "2009-01-23T12:07:31Z", "country": "china", "content": "When did you start addressing the issue of global warming, and how are you tackling it in China?DR. LIN: We have made positive efforts to tackle it for about four or five years after the 16th National Congress of the Communist Party of China was held. At that time, the pressure on China increased in the midst of rising international concern over the issue. Two years ago, the Energy Saving and Emission Reduction Leading Group and the Global Warming Countermeasures Leading Group were organized in the central government to comprehensively confront global warming, with Chinese premier Wen Jiabao as the head and representatives of each ministry and agency as members.These two groups set a goal of reducing energy consumption per unit of sales by 20 percent by 2010 and reducing major environmental indicators such as chemical oxygen demand and sulfur dioxide concentrations by 10 percent. They also encourage people to act towards attaining these goals.You mentioned the \"Scientific Development Concept\" at yesterday's meeting. Could you elaborate on this?DR. LIN: China launched the idea of the Scientific Development Concept at the 17th National Congress of the Communist Party in October 2007. It is part of a big wave of development economics. Behind this move, there was an understanding that pursuing economic growth alone has led to \"growth without development\" in terms of social welfare; that is, people's well-being has not been improved despite the growth in GDP. To address the issue, a new idea has emerged, with the focus shifting from \"growth\" to \"development.\" It suggests that GDP is not everything, and asks what is really necessary to make people happy. This is an idea that places emphasis on the overall development of human beings.The word \"growth\" in Chinese simply means \"to increase or become larger,\" and is used in such phrases as \"an increase in GDP.\" Previously, the words \"growth\" and \"development,\" have been considered to be essentially the same idea in China, but people have come to recognize the difference.The new concept of \"scientific development\" sees the importance of public welfare, which leads to people's happiness and well-being. It aims to enhance their quality of life by improving social security, housing, medical services, and pensions. GDP has been widely used as an criteria to measure economic development, but now various other criteria are being examined to measure overall human development.This year marks the thirtieth anniversary of China's reform and opening up. Concerning the reform, specifically market reform, I regret to say that it has gone too far. In the process toward a market economy, the government gave up its role, thus causing various problems in the society.Such problems are often seen in medical services, housing, and education.In the educational field, for example, an increasing number of universities set up their own companies, and some professors appear to be more enthusiastic about making money than teaching students. On the face of it, this trend seems to revitalize universities, but it is questionable whether these universities can provide meaningful education.Since a few years ago, China has been reflecting on these circumstances and recognizing the need to review the government's role and the role of the market. This has resulted in the new policies focused on securing medical services, social welfare, and housing.With China's large population, its carbon dioxide emissions and energy consumption per capita are very small compared to more developed countries. In contrast, though, in advanced Chinese cities like Beijing, many people live as affluently, or even more affluently, than people in developed countries. Beijing has progressed so much that it is hard to believe that it is a part of a developing country. In fact, you might even say that this big developing country called China also contains an advanced country as large as Japan. Perhaps you really need two major policy approaches, one adapted for the China that is a poor developing country and one for the China that is an affluent, advanced country. What do you think?DR. LIN: Yes, that is how I see it too. More and more people waste so many things, and a certain class of people is being especially wasteful, even though this is a developing country.Meanwhile, many old habits still remain from the poorer past. For example, people often go to restaurants and order more food than they can eat, and then leave the extra food behind on their plates. I call it the \"poor man's consumer culture.\" To change their consumption behavior, we are considering a graduated system of utility rates for things such as electricity and water. With this system, the more people consume, the higher rates they pay. Also, we have not yet introduced inheritance and property taxes for individuals, so we are considering such taxes in the future in order to redistribute income and narrow the gap among people.What do you think are the major upcoming challenges facing the implementation of China's environmental policies?DR. LIN: I think there are two major challenges. One is how we can create a transition in the public's awareness. One of the most effective measures available is to promote environmental education. Although today it is being introduced in school education, we need to make further efforts to promote it on an ongoing basis. Actually, my children are in the generation that received such an education, and their behavior is clearly different from their elders', such as their efforts to turn off the lights at home when not needed.The other challenge is how we can make innovations in the resource price mechanism. We can say that current resource prices are kept down by price controls, which leads to wasteful use of resources. So it is important to change the pricing mechanism in order to reduce resource consumption.What do you expect from future cooperation with Japan?DR LIN: I think that China can learn a lot from the past experience of industrialized nations, especially Japan. European countries and the United States took 150 years to be industrialized, and Japan took only half of that. Now, China is rapidly moving toward industrialization, and it is expected to achieve the goal within half the years that Japan took. In the past, problems accompanying industrialization occurred gradually over decades, but China is facing intensive and interrelated environmental problems, because of its unprecedented speed of industrialization. Since Japan achieved rapid growth in a relatively short period of time, learning from its approaches and technologies is very helpful to China.\u2022 This article was shared by our content partner WorldChanging, part of the Guardian Environment Network", "tags": ["Climate change", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "China", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Dr. Lin Jiabin on sustainability in China"},{"date": "2009-02-01T00:01:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "The mellow little town of Dali is my favourite China oasis, my retreat when the pace of the cities seems too frenetic. It's the capital of the minority Bai people in the southwestern province of Yunnan. The centre of the walled old town is China-lite, a tourist-friendly strip of hippyish caf\u00e9s, but outside it's pretty and relaxed, and the countryside around is breathtaking: in the dramatic Cangshan mountain range to the west I came across esoteric temples, guesthouse retreats, hot springs and even a secret monastery of kung fu monks. At the huge Erhai Lake, just to the east, I sat and watched locals fishing with trained cormorants. As the closest uptight China gets to bohemia, the town has become the haunt of alternative types from the big cities, which makes the bar life intriguing, and I bumped into a few famous writers and bands, down to renew their creative juices. Chinese student dropouts turn up, learn to fire-juggle and dream about opening a caf\u00e9. But the place maintains, at least for the moment, its rural charm. The main street, cobbled Renmin Lu, for instance, looks the way Chinese roads do in the imagination - its terraced houses have decorative shutters and grass growing between the roof tiles; minority women in traditional dress squat beside their produce, while tailors and cobblers work in their little stores - and, towering over it all, are the mist-shrouded mountains. \u2022 Bad Traffic by Simon Lewis is published by Sort of Books, \u00a37.99. Dali is a four-hour bus trip from the nearest big city, Kunming, which is an hour's flight from Bangkok, or three hours from either Beijing or Shanghai. Flights cost around \u00a3120 from each of those cities. I recommend staying at the Moonshine Inn (www.bb-china.com), a well-run guesthouse in a traditional Bai courtyard house, or for a mountain retreat, try the Higherland Inn (www.higherland.com), accessible by cable car. Both have rooms for \u00a310-15 a night", "tags": ["China holidays", "Rest and relaxation", "Travel"], "title": "Simon Lewis in the Yunnan province"},{"date": "2009-03-25T09:47:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has blocked the video-sharing network YouTube after Beijing denounced footage appearing to show security forces beating Tibetans in Lhasa last year as \"a lie\".The authorities have blocked the service on previous occasions and, more frequently, have prevented access to specific videos.Google, which owns YouTube, confirmed that Beijing halted access to the site this week but said it did not know why.\"We are looking into it and working to ensure that the service is restored as soon as possible,\" spokesman Scott Rubin said in an email to the Associated Press.It is not clear why China has blocked it now. But the state news agency, Xinhua, yesterday condemned a video released by the Tibetan government-in-exile, which was posted on YouTube recently .The government-in-exile said the video showed the brutal beating of Tibetan protesters and the wounds of a young man called Tendar. It allegeed he was detained for attempting to stop police beating a monk, and later died of his injuries.But Xinhua, citing an unidentified official with China's Tibetan regional government, said that the video was a lie.\"Technology experts found that video and audio was edited to piece together different places, times and people,\" said the official.He said that an officer had \"defeated\" a man named Tendar, but acted in self-defence after the man slashed him with a knife and ignored several warnings to stop. He added that Tendar \"died from a disease at home awaiting court trial\"; that the person shown in the video was not Tendar; and that the wounds shown were in any case fake.\"The Dalai Lama group is used to fabricating lies to deceive the international community and the aim of this video is to hide the truth of the March 14th riot,\" he said.Tibet is a particularly sensitive issue at the moment because this month marks one year since fatal riots in Lhasa sparked wider unrest across Tibetan areas, and 50 years since a failed uprising against Chinese rule. Large parts of western China are still under heavy security.A foreign ministry spokesman, Qin Gang, told reporters yesterday that he did not know about the block, adding: \"Many people have a false impression that the Chinese government fears the internet. In fact, it is just the opposite.\"Citing the country's 300 million internet users - the world's largest online population - and 100m blogs, he added: \"China's internet is open enough, but also needs to be regulated by law in order to prevent the spread of harmful information and for national security.\"One blogger commented wryly that Qin had spoken accurately, because \"it has always been that the internet fears the Chinese government\".In January, the authorities launched a crackdown on \"vulgar\" content which led to the closure of hundreds of sites, including a popular blog hosting site. Critics argue that the campaign is designed to intimidate bloggers and discourage dissent. Several other countries have blocked YouTube in the past.", "tags": ["World news", "China", "Tibet", "YouTube", "Digital media", "Media", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China blocks YouTube"},{"date": "2009-02-16T13:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": " The debate about whether to engage China is over \u2013 we are now about 20 years into a common-law marriage. The debate about whether China will join the international community also is over. Beijing has been signing up for multilateral forums as if they were going out of style. The great challenge for US secretary of state Hillary Clinton, when she visits Beijing from Friday, is to influence China to play a larger role in preventing global catastrophes in these areas: the economy, nuclear proliferation, climate change and pandemic disease.China deserves high marks for acting quickly on the global economic crisis. Beijing turned on a dime from trying to cool down its economy last summer to enacting potentially potent stimulus measures over recent months. Some measures, such as a plan to invest $123bn in universal health insurance over the next three years, could lay the foundation for a social safety net that would help establish a broad Chinese middle class, which would support the growth of the American middle class by fostering a robust market for US exports. Moreover, working with the International Monetary Fund, Beijing is helping to bail out Pakistan, whose economic stability the US is concerned about, to put it mildly.The politically challenging issues of currency, intellectual property protection and the potential \"Buy American\" provisions of the US economic stimulus package remain and could get worse, but they have proved manageable through regular consultation with Congress and steady dialogue with Beijing.On efforts to prevent potential nuclear catastrophe, China's record is mixed. Beijing is playing an invaluable leadership role in hosting the six-party talks on North Korea's nuclear programme and has been instrumental in breaking specific logjams. But Beijing still cares much more about stability on the Korean peninsula than it does about North Korea's nukes (which are not aimed at China, after all). Whether and under what conditions Pyongyang would give up its weapons, and how much arm-twisting China would be willing to do, are unclear. Clinton is sure to make a strong pitch for more Chinese pressure, but here Beijing and Washington have at least agreed on a path forward.In contrast, on nuclear catastrophe scenario number two \u2013 Iran's programme \u2013 China and the US sharply diverge. China repeatedly has blocked US efforts in the UN security council to impose tough sanctions on Tehran. Beijing does not want to see a Middle East made even more dangerous by complicated nuclear dynamics, but China's immediate and pressing lust for energy supplies will leave its anti-proliferation policies compromised at best. Prospects for Clinton to make headway on this issue seem dim.That brings us to climate change. Global warming will demand the most creative and intense diplomacy the Obama team has to offer. China's energy demand is mind-blowing in scale. From 2001 through 2007, China's consumption increased by an amount equal to energy use in all of Latin America, according to Asia energy expert Mikkal Herberg.China is firmly opposed to hard targets for reducing its ballooning greenhouse gas emissions, arguing, with reason, that the west caused the global warming crisis and bears the burden of responsibility. But without China on board, the world will not be able to reduce greenhouse gases to the level that scientists think is necessary to avoid catastrophic effects.You know things are bad when avian flu seems like a bright spot. But there's reason for guarded optimism that China will handle outbreaks responsibly: a Chinese doctor heads the World Health Organisation, more money is headed for rural healthcare in China, and Beijing learned from the Sars crisis earlier this decade that the potentially devastating effect of a pandemic is exacerbated when its early cases are covered up.What tack, then, should Clinton take in her first trip abroad as secretary of state to maximise the chances of progress in preventing these global catastrophes?First, while making plain our differences \u2013 on human rights, China's military buildup, currency, Darfur, Tibet and other issues \u2013 she should make clear that China is a strategic partner in crucial areas and that the US welcomes China's integration into the international system as a responsible, respected and engaged stakeholder. She also should pave the way for new, bold initiatives based on \"strategic collaboration\". One potentially fruitful area is clean-energy research, with the US and China, or a group of the major energy consumers, joining forces.In her Senate confirmation hearing, Clinton indicated that in dealing with other nations she would maintain her focus on the entire relationship and not allow single issues to set the tone and direction. That is the right approach, but that does not prevent her from prioritising US interests around these four challenges in her talks in Beijing. It is in the nature of our deeply interdependent relationship to have a long list of issues that we want action on from China, but we are likely to see more progress if we can be clear about which are most important.Negotiating with China is never easy. But neither China nor the US can prevent these catastrophes alone.", "tags": ["Hillary Clinton", "China", "US foreign policy", "Obama administration", "Climate change", "Global economy", "Nuclear weapons", "Currencies", "Global recession", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "United Nations", "US news", "World news", "Environment", "Business", "US politics", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Nina Hachigian: China and the US need to work together to prevent global catastrophe"},{"date": "2009-02-06T17:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "This January the outgoing Bush Administration filed yet another suit at the World Trade Organization (WTO) against China's trade and industrial policies. In its first 10 days, the Obama administration came close to charging the Chinese with currency manipulation. Rather than trying to beat back the Chinese growth miracle, the US should look to the Chinese for guidance on how to recharge our economy.In his new book, Bad Samaritans: The Myth of Free Trade and the Secret History of Capitalism, Cambridge university economist Ha-Joon Chang writes that the US didn't slacken support for industry until after the US became a dominant industrial power.Readers will be intrigued to learn that in 1791 it was none other than US Treasury secretary Alexander Hamilton who wrote an influential report calling for policy to shield US firms from foreigners in order to build national companies. Though solidified later by Abraham Lincoln, writes Chang, Hamilton charted the course of US economic policy until the end of the second world war. Chang shows that Japan, South Korea and Taiwan went on to adapt such policies in the second half of the 20th century, leading those nations to prosperity by the century's end.China's growth miracle eclipses all those before it. It is the result of strategic trade and industrial policies largely borrowed from the policies in the US and other East Asian nations that Chang describes. The Chinese have put enormous support into strategic industries such as textiles, high technology and cars, as well as into research and development, and science and technology development. This orchestration of government policy has brought China from the hundredth most competitive high technology export economy to number one in just 25 years. Thanks to these policies, Lenovo, Haier and other Chinese firms are household names. Soon, you could be driving a car from China's First Auto Works.Following a WTO suit where the US successfully challenged a Chinese programme for car makers, in January the US challenged China's \"famous brands\" programme that fosters Chinese firms into becoming globally-recognised names. The US has to stop blaming the Chinese for its problems and learn from the Chinese what the Chinese learned from us. As part of the US plan to get out of the slump, the US needs to revive industrial and innovation policies toward strategic industries and work to make our products more competitive. At this writing, the proposed stimulus in the US amounts to 6% of GDP, with just 10% of the proposed $825bn going toward public infrastructure and technology development. China, which was not hit as hard by the US crisis, is spending 14% of GDP (or $585bn) on a stimulus, the majority of which will go toward infrastructure and technology.Learning from the Chinese by reviving strategic industrial and trade policy will also help end the deadlock in the never-ending WTO negotiations. One of the reasons why WTO talks have been stalled has been that the Bush administration wanted the negotiations to put an end to the strategic trade and industrial policy still permitted under the WTO. China, India, South Africa, Brazil and other emerging nations who have been successfully deploying such policies, saw US intransigence as complete hypocrisy and have halted the talks.A good place to start building productive capacity in the US is in green technologies like renewable energy, energy efficiency, and clean cars. According to a new report by the Political Economy Research Institute (PERI) at the University of Massachusetts titled Green Recovery: A Programme to Create Good Jobs and Start Building a Low-Carbon Economy, close to 17 jobs could be created for every $1m in green industry outlays (as opposed to 5.5 jobs per $1m in spending for the oil and coal industries). Thus, $100bn in green recovery outlays would not only stimulate the economy, revive industry, help slash pollution, and decrease our dependence on foreign oil, but would also create 1.7 million jobs.The Obama Administration should drop the Bush-era suit against China at the WTO and back off from calling China a currency manipulator, at least for now. All countries need all they policy space they can muster to get their economies back on track in the midst of the crisis, especially the US. Like the Chinese we should focus on boosting domestic demand and reviving our industry.", "tags": ["China", "US economic growth and recession", "Obama administration", "WTO", "US economy", "World news", "US news", "US politics", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Kevin Gallagher: China is a model for recharging the US economy"},{"date": "2009-01-23T12:07:31Z", "country": "china", "content": "When did you start addressing the issue of global warming, and how are you tackling it in China?DR. LIN: We have made positive efforts to tackle it for about four or five years after the 16th National Congress of the Communist Party of China was held. At that time, the pressure on China increased in the midst of rising international concern over the issue. Two years ago, the Energy Saving and Emission Reduction Leading Group and the Global Warming Countermeasures Leading Group were organized in the central government to comprehensively confront global warming, with Chinese premier Wen Jiabao as the head and representatives of each ministry and agency as members.These two groups set a goal of reducing energy consumption per unit of sales by 20 percent by 2010 and reducing major environmental indicators such as chemical oxygen demand and sulfur dioxide concentrations by 10 percent. They also encourage people to act towards attaining these goals.You mentioned the \"Scientific Development Concept\" at yesterday's meeting. Could you elaborate on this?DR. LIN: China launched the idea of the Scientific Development Concept at the 17th National Congress of the Communist Party in October 2007. It is part of a big wave of development economics. Behind this move, there was an understanding that pursuing economic growth alone has led to \"growth without development\" in terms of social welfare; that is, people's well-being has not been improved despite the growth in GDP. To address the issue, a new idea has emerged, with the focus shifting from \"growth\" to \"development.\" It suggests that GDP is not everything, and asks what is really necessary to make people happy. This is an idea that places emphasis on the overall development of human beings.The word \"growth\" in Chinese simply means \"to increase or become larger,\" and is used in such phrases as \"an increase in GDP.\" Previously, the words \"growth\" and \"development,\" have been considered to be essentially the same idea in China, but people have come to recognize the difference.The new concept of \"scientific development\" sees the importance of public welfare, which leads to people's happiness and well-being. It aims to enhance their quality of life by improving social security, housing, medical services, and pensions. GDP has been widely used as an criteria to measure economic development, but now various other criteria are being examined to measure overall human development.This year marks the thirtieth anniversary of China's reform and opening up. Concerning the reform, specifically market reform, I regret to say that it has gone too far. In the process toward a market economy, the government gave up its role, thus causing various problems in the society.Such problems are often seen in medical services, housing, and education.In the educational field, for example, an increasing number of universities set up their own companies, and some professors appear to be more enthusiastic about making money than teaching students. On the face of it, this trend seems to revitalize universities, but it is questionable whether these universities can provide meaningful education.Since a few years ago, China has been reflecting on these circumstances and recognizing the need to review the government's role and the role of the market. This has resulted in the new policies focused on securing medical services, social welfare, and housing.With China's large population, its carbon dioxide emissions and energy consumption per capita are very small compared to more developed countries. In contrast, though, in advanced Chinese cities like Beijing, many people live as affluently, or even more affluently, than people in developed countries. Beijing has progressed so much that it is hard to believe that it is a part of a developing country. In fact, you might even say that this big developing country called China also contains an advanced country as large as Japan. Perhaps you really need two major policy approaches, one adapted for the China that is a poor developing country and one for the China that is an affluent, advanced country. What do you think?DR. LIN: Yes, that is how I see it too. More and more people waste so many things, and a certain class of people is being especially wasteful, even though this is a developing country.Meanwhile, many old habits still remain from the poorer past. For example, people often go to restaurants and order more food than they can eat, and then leave the extra food behind on their plates. I call it the \"poor man's consumer culture.\" To change their consumption behavior, we are considering a graduated system of utility rates for things such as electricity and water. With this system, the more people consume, the higher rates they pay. Also, we have not yet introduced inheritance and property taxes for individuals, so we are considering such taxes in the future in order to redistribute income and narrow the gap among people.What do you think are the major upcoming challenges facing the implementation of China's environmental policies?DR. LIN: I think there are two major challenges. One is how we can create a transition in the public's awareness. One of the most effective measures available is to promote environmental education. Although today it is being introduced in school education, we need to make further efforts to promote it on an ongoing basis. Actually, my children are in the generation that received such an education, and their behavior is clearly different from their elders', such as their efforts to turn off the lights at home when not needed.The other challenge is how we can make innovations in the resource price mechanism. We can say that current resource prices are kept down by price controls, which leads to wasteful use of resources. So it is important to change the pricing mechanism in order to reduce resource consumption.What do you expect from future cooperation with Japan?DR LIN: I think that China can learn a lot from the past experience of industrialized nations, especially Japan. European countries and the United States took 150 years to be industrialized, and Japan took only half of that. Now, China is rapidly moving toward industrialization, and it is expected to achieve the goal within half the years that Japan took. In the past, problems accompanying industrialization occurred gradually over decades, but China is facing intensive and interrelated environmental problems, because of its unprecedented speed of industrialization. Since Japan achieved rapid growth in a relatively short period of time, learning from its approaches and technologies is very helpful to China.\u2022 This article was shared by our content partner WorldChanging, part of the Guardian Environment Network", "tags": ["Climate change", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "China", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Dr. Lin Jiabin on sustainability in China"},{"date": "2009-03-30T05:26:25Z", "country": "china", "content": "You may have already seen the news that more than a thousand computers have been compromised, in what appears to be a well-directed attack against Tibetan exiles. We've covered it extensively, and it's got plenty of headlines.While the basic details are clear - and well illuminated by reports from researchers in Toronto, Illinois and Cambridge - plenty of questions remain unanswered. The most important revolve around the origins of the strike: where did it come from, and is the Chinese military actively sponsoring these hackers to steal about other nations and administrations?All this talk of silicon warfare is more than a little reminiscent of the Cold War - tales of hi-tech espionage, secrets being stolen, and brinkmanship by the spokesman of various national factions. But even the researchers who have uncovered the attacks disagree on whether or not there is sufficient evidence of state-sponsored espionage.In their paper, Shishir Nagaraja and Ross Anderson make the case that it's definitely the result of Chinese state surveillance, calling the perpetrators \"agents of the Chinese government\". Meanwhile the University of Toronto researchers say that it is too easy to make assumptions.\"Some may conclude that what we lay out here points definitively to China as the culprit,\" say the University of Toronto researchers in their report. \"Certainly Chinese cyber-espionage is a major global concern... but attributing all Chinese malware to deliberate or targeted intelligence gathering operations by the Chinese state is wrong and misleading.\"The truth is that, like many of the delicate issues arising around cybersecurity, it is almost impossible to definitively work out who was behind the attack. The Chinese government is certainly well-known for its ambivalent attitude to international computer crime - on one hand claiming that hacking is punishable by death, while apparently training up an army of computer spies on the other.But over and above the Chinese state's relationship with the internet, there is also a strong and effective group of Chinese neo-nationalists who see it as part of their job to protect the country from its enemies. They organise online protests and attacks. They feel that the western world does not understand the Tibetan problem. They act in an apparently independent manner, but act in a manner that seems to further the Chinese government's agenda.The truth is, it's very hard to get to the truth. And, even worse, it's not unusual to be without evidence in circumstances like this: the nature of well-conducted, modern cyberwarfare is that it is almost untraceable.Security experts in Estonia have long blamed Russian government agents for the 2007 attack on their country's infrastructure - but even when I met up with Nato's leading cyberdefence team, they were unable to show any direct evidence that proved it was an act by the Russian state and not an independent group.It may eventually be clear that the Chinese government is directly behind these cyber-attacks. But state intelligence, at least, has been a known quantity for many years. What if these attacks are the result of something more worrying: a loose conglomeration of disaffected, motivated cyberwarriors who are rallied around an issue or moral stance? Whether it's nationalist groups or those who identify ideologically with groups like Al Qaeda, this guerilla cyberwar could prove more dangerous in the short term - and much harder to cope with.", "tags": ["Internet", "Computing", "Hacking", "Technology", "World news", "China", "Privacy", "Asia Pacific", "Cyberwar"], "title": "NAQ: Is China stepping towards cyberwar"},{"date": "2009-02-01T00:01:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "The mellow little town of Dali is my favourite China oasis, my retreat when the pace of the cities seems too frenetic. It's the capital of the minority Bai people in the southwestern province of Yunnan. The centre of the walled old town is China-lite, a tourist-friendly strip of hippyish caf\u00e9s, but outside it's pretty and relaxed, and the countryside around is breathtaking: in the dramatic Cangshan mountain range to the west I came across esoteric temples, guesthouse retreats, hot springs and even a secret monastery of kung fu monks. At the huge Erhai Lake, just to the east, I sat and watched locals fishing with trained cormorants. As the closest uptight China gets to bohemia, the town has become the haunt of alternative types from the big cities, which makes the bar life intriguing, and I bumped into a few famous writers and bands, down to renew their creative juices. Chinese student dropouts turn up, learn to fire-juggle and dream about opening a caf\u00e9. But the place maintains, at least for the moment, its rural charm. The main street, cobbled Renmin Lu, for instance, looks the way Chinese roads do in the imagination - its terraced houses have decorative shutters and grass growing between the roof tiles; minority women in traditional dress squat beside their produce, while tailors and cobblers work in their little stores - and, towering over it all, are the mist-shrouded mountains. \u2022 Bad Traffic by Simon Lewis is published by Sort of Books, \u00a37.99. Dali is a four-hour bus trip from the nearest big city, Kunming, which is an hour's flight from Bangkok, or three hours from either Beijing or Shanghai. Flights cost around \u00a3120 from each of those cities. I recommend staying at the Moonshine Inn (www.bb-china.com), a well-run guesthouse in a traditional Bai courtyard house, or for a mountain retreat, try the Higherland Inn (www.higherland.com), accessible by cable car. Both have rooms for \u00a310-15 a night", "tags": ["China holidays", "Rest and relaxation", "Travel"], "title": "Simon Lewis in the Yunnan province"},{"date": "2009-03-25T09:47:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has blocked the video-sharing network YouTube after Beijing denounced footage appearing to show security forces beating Tibetans in Lhasa last year as \"a lie\".The authorities have blocked the service on previous occasions and, more frequently, have prevented access to specific videos.Google, which owns YouTube, confirmed that Beijing halted access to the site this week but said it did not know why.\"We are looking into it and working to ensure that the service is restored as soon as possible,\" spokesman Scott Rubin said in an email to the Associated Press.It is not clear why China has blocked it now. But the state news agency, Xinhua, yesterday condemned a video released by the Tibetan government-in-exile, which was posted on YouTube recently .The government-in-exile said the video showed the brutal beating of Tibetan protesters and the wounds of a young man called Tendar. It allegeed he was detained for attempting to stop police beating a monk, and later died of his injuries.But Xinhua, citing an unidentified official with China's Tibetan regional government, said that the video was a lie.\"Technology experts found that video and audio was edited to piece together different places, times and people,\" said the official.He said that an officer had \"defeated\" a man named Tendar, but acted in self-defence after the man slashed him with a knife and ignored several warnings to stop. He added that Tendar \"died from a disease at home awaiting court trial\"; that the person shown in the video was not Tendar; and that the wounds shown were in any case fake.\"The Dalai Lama group is used to fabricating lies to deceive the international community and the aim of this video is to hide the truth of the March 14th riot,\" he said.Tibet is a particularly sensitive issue at the moment because this month marks one year since fatal riots in Lhasa sparked wider unrest across Tibetan areas, and 50 years since a failed uprising against Chinese rule. Large parts of western China are still under heavy security.A foreign ministry spokesman, Qin Gang, told reporters yesterday that he did not know about the block, adding: \"Many people have a false impression that the Chinese government fears the internet. In fact, it is just the opposite.\"Citing the country's 300 million internet users - the world's largest online population - and 100m blogs, he added: \"China's internet is open enough, but also needs to be regulated by law in order to prevent the spread of harmful information and for national security.\"One blogger commented wryly that Qin had spoken accurately, because \"it has always been that the internet fears the Chinese government\".In January, the authorities launched a crackdown on \"vulgar\" content which led to the closure of hundreds of sites, including a popular blog hosting site. Critics argue that the campaign is designed to intimidate bloggers and discourage dissent. Several other countries have blocked YouTube in the past.", "tags": ["World news", "China", "Tibet", "YouTube", "Digital media", "Media", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China blocks YouTube"},{"date": "2009-02-16T13:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": " The debate about whether to engage China is over \u2013 we are now about 20 years into a common-law marriage. The debate about whether China will join the international community also is over. Beijing has been signing up for multilateral forums as if they were going out of style. The great challenge for US secretary of state Hillary Clinton, when she visits Beijing from Friday, is to influence China to play a larger role in preventing global catastrophes in these areas: the economy, nuclear proliferation, climate change and pandemic disease.China deserves high marks for acting quickly on the global economic crisis. Beijing turned on a dime from trying to cool down its economy last summer to enacting potentially potent stimulus measures over recent months. Some measures, such as a plan to invest $123bn in universal health insurance over the next three years, could lay the foundation for a social safety net that would help establish a broad Chinese middle class, which would support the growth of the American middle class by fostering a robust market for US exports. Moreover, working with the International Monetary Fund, Beijing is helping to bail out Pakistan, whose economic stability the US is concerned about, to put it mildly.The politically challenging issues of currency, intellectual property protection and the potential \"Buy American\" provisions of the US economic stimulus package remain and could get worse, but they have proved manageable through regular consultation with Congress and steady dialogue with Beijing.On efforts to prevent potential nuclear catastrophe, China's record is mixed. Beijing is playing an invaluable leadership role in hosting the six-party talks on North Korea's nuclear programme and has been instrumental in breaking specific logjams. But Beijing still cares much more about stability on the Korean peninsula than it does about North Korea's nukes (which are not aimed at China, after all). Whether and under what conditions Pyongyang would give up its weapons, and how much arm-twisting China would be willing to do, are unclear. Clinton is sure to make a strong pitch for more Chinese pressure, but here Beijing and Washington have at least agreed on a path forward.In contrast, on nuclear catastrophe scenario number two \u2013 Iran's programme \u2013 China and the US sharply diverge. China repeatedly has blocked US efforts in the UN security council to impose tough sanctions on Tehran. Beijing does not want to see a Middle East made even more dangerous by complicated nuclear dynamics, but China's immediate and pressing lust for energy supplies will leave its anti-proliferation policies compromised at best. Prospects for Clinton to make headway on this issue seem dim.That brings us to climate change. Global warming will demand the most creative and intense diplomacy the Obama team has to offer. China's energy demand is mind-blowing in scale. From 2001 through 2007, China's consumption increased by an amount equal to energy use in all of Latin America, according to Asia energy expert Mikkal Herberg.China is firmly opposed to hard targets for reducing its ballooning greenhouse gas emissions, arguing, with reason, that the west caused the global warming crisis and bears the burden of responsibility. But without China on board, the world will not be able to reduce greenhouse gases to the level that scientists think is necessary to avoid catastrophic effects.You know things are bad when avian flu seems like a bright spot. But there's reason for guarded optimism that China will handle outbreaks responsibly: a Chinese doctor heads the World Health Organisation, more money is headed for rural healthcare in China, and Beijing learned from the Sars crisis earlier this decade that the potentially devastating effect of a pandemic is exacerbated when its early cases are covered up.What tack, then, should Clinton take in her first trip abroad as secretary of state to maximise the chances of progress in preventing these global catastrophes?First, while making plain our differences \u2013 on human rights, China's military buildup, currency, Darfur, Tibet and other issues \u2013 she should make clear that China is a strategic partner in crucial areas and that the US welcomes China's integration into the international system as a responsible, respected and engaged stakeholder. She also should pave the way for new, bold initiatives based on \"strategic collaboration\". One potentially fruitful area is clean-energy research, with the US and China, or a group of the major energy consumers, joining forces.In her Senate confirmation hearing, Clinton indicated that in dealing with other nations she would maintain her focus on the entire relationship and not allow single issues to set the tone and direction. That is the right approach, but that does not prevent her from prioritising US interests around these four challenges in her talks in Beijing. It is in the nature of our deeply interdependent relationship to have a long list of issues that we want action on from China, but we are likely to see more progress if we can be clear about which are most important.Negotiating with China is never easy. But neither China nor the US can prevent these catastrophes alone.", "tags": ["Hillary Clinton", "China", "US foreign policy", "Obama administration", "Climate change", "Global economy", "Nuclear weapons", "Currencies", "Global recession", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "United Nations", "US news", "World news", "Environment", "Business", "US politics", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Nina Hachigian: China and the US need to work together to prevent global catastrophe"},{"date": "2009-02-06T17:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "This January the outgoing Bush Administration filed yet another suit at the World Trade Organization (WTO) against China's trade and industrial policies. In its first 10 days, the Obama administration came close to charging the Chinese with currency manipulation. Rather than trying to beat back the Chinese growth miracle, the US should look to the Chinese for guidance on how to recharge our economy.In his new book, Bad Samaritans: The Myth of Free Trade and the Secret History of Capitalism, Cambridge university economist Ha-Joon Chang writes that the US didn't slacken support for industry until after the US became a dominant industrial power.Readers will be intrigued to learn that in 1791 it was none other than US Treasury secretary Alexander Hamilton who wrote an influential report calling for policy to shield US firms from foreigners in order to build national companies. Though solidified later by Abraham Lincoln, writes Chang, Hamilton charted the course of US economic policy until the end of the second world war. Chang shows that Japan, South Korea and Taiwan went on to adapt such policies in the second half of the 20th century, leading those nations to prosperity by the century's end.China's growth miracle eclipses all those before it. It is the result of strategic trade and industrial policies largely borrowed from the policies in the US and other East Asian nations that Chang describes. The Chinese have put enormous support into strategic industries such as textiles, high technology and cars, as well as into research and development, and science and technology development. This orchestration of government policy has brought China from the hundredth most competitive high technology export economy to number one in just 25 years. Thanks to these policies, Lenovo, Haier and other Chinese firms are household names. Soon, you could be driving a car from China's First Auto Works.Following a WTO suit where the US successfully challenged a Chinese programme for car makers, in January the US challenged China's \"famous brands\" programme that fosters Chinese firms into becoming globally-recognised names. The US has to stop blaming the Chinese for its problems and learn from the Chinese what the Chinese learned from us. As part of the US plan to get out of the slump, the US needs to revive industrial and innovation policies toward strategic industries and work to make our products more competitive. At this writing, the proposed stimulus in the US amounts to 6% of GDP, with just 10% of the proposed $825bn going toward public infrastructure and technology development. China, which was not hit as hard by the US crisis, is spending 14% of GDP (or $585bn) on a stimulus, the majority of which will go toward infrastructure and technology.Learning from the Chinese by reviving strategic industrial and trade policy will also help end the deadlock in the never-ending WTO negotiations. One of the reasons why WTO talks have been stalled has been that the Bush administration wanted the negotiations to put an end to the strategic trade and industrial policy still permitted under the WTO. China, India, South Africa, Brazil and other emerging nations who have been successfully deploying such policies, saw US intransigence as complete hypocrisy and have halted the talks.A good place to start building productive capacity in the US is in green technologies like renewable energy, energy efficiency, and clean cars. According to a new report by the Political Economy Research Institute (PERI) at the University of Massachusetts titled Green Recovery: A Programme to Create Good Jobs and Start Building a Low-Carbon Economy, close to 17 jobs could be created for every $1m in green industry outlays (as opposed to 5.5 jobs per $1m in spending for the oil and coal industries). Thus, $100bn in green recovery outlays would not only stimulate the economy, revive industry, help slash pollution, and decrease our dependence on foreign oil, but would also create 1.7 million jobs.The Obama Administration should drop the Bush-era suit against China at the WTO and back off from calling China a currency manipulator, at least for now. All countries need all they policy space they can muster to get their economies back on track in the midst of the crisis, especially the US. Like the Chinese we should focus on boosting domestic demand and reviving our industry.", "tags": ["China", "US economic growth and recession", "Obama administration", "WTO", "US economy", "World news", "US news", "US politics", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Kevin Gallagher: China is a model for recharging the US economy"},{"date": "2009-01-23T12:07:31Z", "country": "china", "content": "When did you start addressing the issue of global warming, and how are you tackling it in China?DR. LIN: We have made positive efforts to tackle it for about four or five years after the 16th National Congress of the Communist Party of China was held. At that time, the pressure on China increased in the midst of rising international concern over the issue. Two years ago, the Energy Saving and Emission Reduction Leading Group and the Global Warming Countermeasures Leading Group were organized in the central government to comprehensively confront global warming, with Chinese premier Wen Jiabao as the head and representatives of each ministry and agency as members.These two groups set a goal of reducing energy consumption per unit of sales by 20 percent by 2010 and reducing major environmental indicators such as chemical oxygen demand and sulfur dioxide concentrations by 10 percent. They also encourage people to act towards attaining these goals.You mentioned the \"Scientific Development Concept\" at yesterday's meeting. Could you elaborate on this?DR. LIN: China launched the idea of the Scientific Development Concept at the 17th National Congress of the Communist Party in October 2007. It is part of a big wave of development economics. Behind this move, there was an understanding that pursuing economic growth alone has led to \"growth without development\" in terms of social welfare; that is, people's well-being has not been improved despite the growth in GDP. To address the issue, a new idea has emerged, with the focus shifting from \"growth\" to \"development.\" It suggests that GDP is not everything, and asks what is really necessary to make people happy. This is an idea that places emphasis on the overall development of human beings.The word \"growth\" in Chinese simply means \"to increase or become larger,\" and is used in such phrases as \"an increase in GDP.\" Previously, the words \"growth\" and \"development,\" have been considered to be essentially the same idea in China, but people have come to recognize the difference.The new concept of \"scientific development\" sees the importance of public welfare, which leads to people's happiness and well-being. It aims to enhance their quality of life by improving social security, housing, medical services, and pensions. GDP has been widely used as an criteria to measure economic development, but now various other criteria are being examined to measure overall human development.This year marks the thirtieth anniversary of China's reform and opening up. Concerning the reform, specifically market reform, I regret to say that it has gone too far. In the process toward a market economy, the government gave up its role, thus causing various problems in the society.Such problems are often seen in medical services, housing, and education.In the educational field, for example, an increasing number of universities set up their own companies, and some professors appear to be more enthusiastic about making money than teaching students. On the face of it, this trend seems to revitalize universities, but it is questionable whether these universities can provide meaningful education.Since a few years ago, China has been reflecting on these circumstances and recognizing the need to review the government's role and the role of the market. This has resulted in the new policies focused on securing medical services, social welfare, and housing.With China's large population, its carbon dioxide emissions and energy consumption per capita are very small compared to more developed countries. In contrast, though, in advanced Chinese cities like Beijing, many people live as affluently, or even more affluently, than people in developed countries. Beijing has progressed so much that it is hard to believe that it is a part of a developing country. In fact, you might even say that this big developing country called China also contains an advanced country as large as Japan. Perhaps you really need two major policy approaches, one adapted for the China that is a poor developing country and one for the China that is an affluent, advanced country. What do you think?DR. LIN: Yes, that is how I see it too. More and more people waste so many things, and a certain class of people is being especially wasteful, even though this is a developing country.Meanwhile, many old habits still remain from the poorer past. For example, people often go to restaurants and order more food than they can eat, and then leave the extra food behind on their plates. I call it the \"poor man's consumer culture.\" To change their consumption behavior, we are considering a graduated system of utility rates for things such as electricity and water. With this system, the more people consume, the higher rates they pay. Also, we have not yet introduced inheritance and property taxes for individuals, so we are considering such taxes in the future in order to redistribute income and narrow the gap among people.What do you think are the major upcoming challenges facing the implementation of China's environmental policies?DR. LIN: I think there are two major challenges. One is how we can create a transition in the public's awareness. One of the most effective measures available is to promote environmental education. Although today it is being introduced in school education, we need to make further efforts to promote it on an ongoing basis. Actually, my children are in the generation that received such an education, and their behavior is clearly different from their elders', such as their efforts to turn off the lights at home when not needed.The other challenge is how we can make innovations in the resource price mechanism. We can say that current resource prices are kept down by price controls, which leads to wasteful use of resources. So it is important to change the pricing mechanism in order to reduce resource consumption.What do you expect from future cooperation with Japan?DR LIN: I think that China can learn a lot from the past experience of industrialized nations, especially Japan. European countries and the United States took 150 years to be industrialized, and Japan took only half of that. Now, China is rapidly moving toward industrialization, and it is expected to achieve the goal within half the years that Japan took. In the past, problems accompanying industrialization occurred gradually over decades, but China is facing intensive and interrelated environmental problems, because of its unprecedented speed of industrialization. Since Japan achieved rapid growth in a relatively short period of time, learning from its approaches and technologies is very helpful to China.\u2022 This article was shared by our content partner WorldChanging, part of the Guardian Environment Network", "tags": ["Climate change", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "China", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Dr. Lin Jiabin on sustainability in China"},{"date": "2009-03-30T05:26:25Z", "country": "china", "content": "You may have already seen the news that more than a thousand computers have been compromised, in what appears to be a well-directed attack against Tibetan exiles. We've covered it extensively, and it's got plenty of headlines.While the basic details are clear - and well illuminated by reports from researchers in Toronto, Illinois and Cambridge - plenty of questions remain unanswered. The most important revolve around the origins of the strike: where did it come from, and is the Chinese military actively sponsoring these hackers to steal about other nations and administrations?All this talk of silicon warfare is more than a little reminiscent of the Cold War - tales of hi-tech espionage, secrets being stolen, and brinkmanship by the spokesman of various national factions. But even the researchers who have uncovered the attacks disagree on whether or not there is sufficient evidence of state-sponsored espionage.In their paper, Shishir Nagaraja and Ross Anderson make the case that it's definitely the result of Chinese state surveillance, calling the perpetrators \"agents of the Chinese government\". Meanwhile the University of Toronto researchers say that it is too easy to make assumptions.\"Some may conclude that what we lay out here points definitively to China as the culprit,\" say the University of Toronto researchers in their report. \"Certainly Chinese cyber-espionage is a major global concern... but attributing all Chinese malware to deliberate or targeted intelligence gathering operations by the Chinese state is wrong and misleading.\"The truth is that, like many of the delicate issues arising around cybersecurity, it is almost impossible to definitively work out who was behind the attack. The Chinese government is certainly well-known for its ambivalent attitude to international computer crime - on one hand claiming that hacking is punishable by death, while apparently training up an army of computer spies on the other.But over and above the Chinese state's relationship with the internet, there is also a strong and effective group of Chinese neo-nationalists who see it as part of their job to protect the country from its enemies. They organise online protests and attacks. They feel that the western world does not understand the Tibetan problem. They act in an apparently independent manner, but act in a manner that seems to further the Chinese government's agenda.The truth is, it's very hard to get to the truth. And, even worse, it's not unusual to be without evidence in circumstances like this: the nature of well-conducted, modern cyberwarfare is that it is almost untraceable.Security experts in Estonia have long blamed Russian government agents for the 2007 attack on their country's infrastructure - but even when I met up with Nato's leading cyberdefence team, they were unable to show any direct evidence that proved it was an act by the Russian state and not an independent group.It may eventually be clear that the Chinese government is directly behind these cyber-attacks. But state intelligence, at least, has been a known quantity for many years. What if these attacks are the result of something more worrying: a loose conglomeration of disaffected, motivated cyberwarriors who are rallied around an issue or moral stance? Whether it's nationalist groups or those who identify ideologically with groups like Al Qaeda, this guerilla cyberwar could prove more dangerous in the short term - and much harder to cope with.", "tags": ["Internet", "Computing", "Hacking", "Technology", "World news", "China", "Privacy", "Asia Pacific", "Cyberwar"], "title": "NAQ: Is China stepping towards cyberwar"},{"date": "2009-02-22T10:29:58Z", "country": "china", "content": "A gas explosion in a Chinese coalmine has killed at least 73 workers, with dozens more trapped underground in the still-burning shaft.The blast occurred before dawn today while 436 workers were in the Tunlan mine at Gujiao city in the northern province of Shanxi, the official Xinhua news agency said.Of the survivors, 113 were hospitalised, including 21 in critical condition. Reports said at least 65 were still underground.CCTV, the state television station, showed rescuers in orange suits and red helmets with headlamps entering an elevator to be lowered into the mine shaft, while others emerged from the mine carrying workers on stretchers toward waiting ambulances.Nearly 100 rescuers were onsite but their work was hampered by the fire, CCTV said.The injured miners had carbon monoxide poisoning, Xinhua reported, quoting doctors at a nearby hospital. The odourless, colourless gas is deadly if there is high or prolonged exposure.The mine is owned by Shanxi Coking Coal Group, one of China's largest producers of coking coal used to make steel. The company operates 28 mines.No accidents had been reported at the Tunlan mine in the past decade, Xinhua said. It produces 5m tonnes of coking coal a year.China has worked to cut accidents by closing more than 1,000 dangerous small mines last year, but its mining industry is still the world's deadliest, killing about 3,200 people last year, a 15% decline from the previous year.Large state-run mines tend to have safety records nearing those of developed countries, while smaller mines have little or no safety equipment or worker training.Government figures show that almost 80% of China's 16,000 mines are small illegal operations.", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Deadly explosion in China coalmine"},{"date": "2009-06-24T18:51:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Google suffered intensive disruption in China tonight just days after it was warned by the authorities to scale back its search operations.Search functions and Gmail were inaccessible for more than an hour in a move seen by web watchers as a warning shot across the bows by China's censors.\"This is definitely a warning to Google, as well as other foreign companies,\" said Xiao Qiang, the founder of China Digital Times. \"It is also a strong warning to Chinese netizens. The government is showing its determination to keep the internet under control.\"Earlier in the day, the main state and communist party media - Xinhua and People's Daily - condemned Google for providing links to pornographic websites through its search engine. Last week, the government ordered the US company to halt foreign website searches as a punishment.Many Chinese netizens believe the move is intended to distract attention away from the domestic controversy over Green Dam censorship software, which must be sold with all new computers from 1 July.In a rare move, the US has lodged a complaint over the tightening of censorship rules. Google agreed to self-censor in compliance with requests by local officials after setting up a China subsidiary and locally hosted website in 2005. One reason for this controversial decision was that its services were frequently being disrupted or slowed. That has been rare since.The extent of the latest blockage was not immediately apparent, but the head of Google's China operations, Kai-Fu Lee posted a call for patience online: \"We have received your feedback, we are just investigating, please be patient and wait for feedback from Google overseas, thanks for your support.\" Frustration against censorship is high. Angry Chinese bloggers have called for a boycott of the internet on 1 July.", "tags": ["China", "Google", "Gmail", "Internet", "Censorship", "Technology", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China blocks Google services for an hour"},{"date": "2009-06-24T18:51:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Google suffered intensive disruption in China tonight just days after it was warned by the authorities to scale back its search operations.Search functions and Gmail were inaccessible for more than an hour in a move seen by web watchers as a warning shot across the bows by China's censors.\"This is definitely a warning to Google, as well as other foreign companies,\" said Xiao Qiang, the founder of China Digital Times. \"It is also a strong warning to Chinese netizens. The government is showing its determination to keep the internet under control.\"Earlier in the day, the main state and communist party media - Xinhua and People's Daily - condemned Google for providing links to pornographic websites through its search engine. Last week, the government ordered the US company to halt foreign website searches as a punishment.Many Chinese netizens believe the move is intended to distract attention away from the domestic controversy over Green Dam censorship software, which must be sold with all new computers from 1 July.In a rare move, the US has lodged a complaint over the tightening of censorship rules. Google agreed to self-censor in compliance with requests by local officials after setting up a China subsidiary and locally hosted website in 2005. One reason for this controversial decision was that its services were frequently being disrupted or slowed. That has been rare since.The extent of the latest blockage was not immediately apparent, but the head of Google's China operations, Kai-Fu Lee posted a call for patience online: \"We have received your feedback, we are just investigating, please be patient and wait for feedback from Google overseas, thanks for your support.\" Frustration against censorship is high. Angry Chinese bloggers have called for a boycott of the internet on 1 July.", "tags": ["China", "Google", "Gmail", "Internet", "Censorship", "Technology", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China blocks Google services for an hour"},{"date": "2009-05-21T21:00:02Z", "country": "china", "content": "What is the biggest change you have seen in China? And in your own life?In the past five years, my life situation has become worse and worse. I was locked up for two years. They never told me why. I was just petitioning to get back some money that the police had stolen from me. It made me hate the party more and more. I lost hope and confidence in the government.I was beaten and tortured by officials in Baishan in Jilin. I came to Beijing to protest. If the system worked well, the culprits would be punished. But they are not. This is not the problem of one or two officials. It is the whole system, right from the top. Because the top is not doing well, the bottom is suffering even more. Under President Hu [Jintao] the situation for petitioners is even worse than under president Jiang [Zemin].What's your greatest hope for China and for yourself?My greatest hope is that the Communist party will be eradicated. They are not humane. They killed people in Beijing in 1989 and since then, they have killed people in Xinjiang and Guangdong.\u00a0 Police and soldiers fired their guns on ordinary citizens.I hope human rights organisations and foreign nations will join together to criticise the Chinese government. If they do, I think the government won't dare to be so brutal to people. International pressure will help.What is your greatest fear?My greatest worry is that what happened in Tiananmen Square in 1989 will happen again. Even now, many petitioners are looking for a place to hide because they fear police will round them up before 4 June [the 20th anniversary of the crackdown on the Tiananmen Square protests].Before the 2008 Olympics, the government did very bad things to ordinary people. This year, I am afraid it will be worse. I have given up trying to get justice for myself. I just want the world to know what the party and the government have done. We want political reform. There is an ancient saying: \"He who has the people's heart has the nation. He who loses the people's heart loses the nation.\" I think the government has lost the people's hearts since 1989. They are afraid of their own people.", "tags": ["China", "Protest", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China voices: the petitioner"},{"date": "2009-06-24T18:51:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Google suffered intensive disruption in China tonight just days after it was warned by the authorities to scale back its search operations.Search functions and Gmail were inaccessible for more than an hour in a move seen by web watchers as a warning shot across the bows by China's censors.\"This is definitely a warning to Google, as well as other foreign companies,\" said Xiao Qiang, the founder of China Digital Times. \"It is also a strong warning to Chinese netizens. The government is showing its determination to keep the internet under control.\"Earlier in the day, the main state and communist party media - Xinhua and People's Daily - condemned Google for providing links to pornographic websites through its search engine. Last week, the government ordered the US company to halt foreign website searches as a punishment.Many Chinese netizens believe the move is intended to distract attention away from the domestic controversy over Green Dam censorship software, which must be sold with all new computers from 1 July.In a rare move, the US has lodged a complaint over the tightening of censorship rules. Google agreed to self-censor in compliance with requests by local officials after setting up a China subsidiary and locally hosted website in 2005. One reason for this controversial decision was that its services were frequently being disrupted or slowed. That has been rare since.The extent of the latest blockage was not immediately apparent, but the head of Google's China operations, Kai-Fu Lee posted a call for patience online: \"We have received your feedback, we are just investigating, please be patient and wait for feedback from Google overseas, thanks for your support.\" Frustration against censorship is high. Angry Chinese bloggers have called for a boycott of the internet on 1 July.", "tags": ["China", "Google", "Gmail", "Internet", "Censorship", "Technology", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China blocks Google services for an hour"},{"date": "2009-05-21T21:00:02Z", "country": "china", "content": "What is the biggest change you have seen in China? And in your own life?In the past five years, my life situation has become worse and worse. I was locked up for two years. They never told me why. I was just petitioning to get back some money that the police had stolen from me. It made me hate the party more and more. I lost hope and confidence in the government.I was beaten and tortured by officials in Baishan in Jilin. I came to Beijing to protest. If the system worked well, the culprits would be punished. But they are not. This is not the problem of one or two officials. It is the whole system, right from the top. Because the top is not doing well, the bottom is suffering even more. Under President Hu [Jintao] the situation for petitioners is even worse than under president Jiang [Zemin].What's your greatest hope for China and for yourself?My greatest hope is that the Communist party will be eradicated. They are not humane. They killed people in Beijing in 1989 and since then, they have killed people in Xinjiang and Guangdong.\u00a0 Police and soldiers fired their guns on ordinary citizens.I hope human rights organisations and foreign nations will join together to criticise the Chinese government. If they do, I think the government won't dare to be so brutal to people. International pressure will help.What is your greatest fear?My greatest worry is that what happened in Tiananmen Square in 1989 will happen again. Even now, many petitioners are looking for a place to hide because they fear police will round them up before 4 June [the 20th anniversary of the crackdown on the Tiananmen Square protests].Before the 2008 Olympics, the government did very bad things to ordinary people. This year, I am afraid it will be worse. I have given up trying to get justice for myself. I just want the world to know what the party and the government have done. We want political reform. There is an ancient saying: \"He who has the people's heart has the nation. He who loses the people's heart loses the nation.\" I think the government has lost the people's hearts since 1989. They are afraid of their own people.", "tags": ["China", "Protest", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China voices: the petitioner"},{"date": "2009-05-20T21:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "What is the biggest change you have seen in China? And in your own life?Our country has solved the problem of starvation. Everyone has enough to eat. Our economy is strong and big. The financial crisis has not affected us much. I haven't noticed any difference in village life, though some migrants have come back home. As individuals, we don't feel that we have got much richer. We don't have much money.\u00a0 The biggest change since I was young is the loss of water. I used to swim in the ponds around our village, but they have all dried up.What's your greatest hope for China and for yourself?I would like the government to provide more support to improve the environment in rural areas. They always say that they treat the city and the countryside equally, but that is not the case when it comes to sanitation. We need more help from above. But I believe our country is generally following the right direction set by our party. We could see the power of China last year during the Olympics and in the way we helped each other after the earthquake. Our country can be the greatest in the world.What is your greatest fear?My biggest concern is my wife's health. She has Alzheimer's. She always supported me by looking after the farmland while I was out. But now, I must stay home and look after her.\u00a0 She has been sick for two years now. We have to pay all our medical bills ourselves. That is tough. Our income is very low. We earn 1,000 to 2,000 yuan (\u00a3100-\u00a3200) per year from our farmland. They say there will be a new medical insurance system later this year that will help us, but I haven't seen anything about it yet.", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China voices: the farmer"},{"date": "2009-06-24T18:51:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Google suffered intensive disruption in China tonight just days after it was warned by the authorities to scale back its search operations.Search functions and Gmail were inaccessible for more than an hour in a move seen by web watchers as a warning shot across the bows by China's censors.\"This is definitely a warning to Google, as well as other foreign companies,\" said Xiao Qiang, the founder of China Digital Times. \"It is also a strong warning to Chinese netizens. The government is showing its determination to keep the internet under control.\"Earlier in the day, the main state and communist party media - Xinhua and People's Daily - condemned Google for providing links to pornographic websites through its search engine. Last week, the government ordered the US company to halt foreign website searches as a punishment.Many Chinese netizens believe the move is intended to distract attention away from the domestic controversy over Green Dam censorship software, which must be sold with all new computers from 1 July.In a rare move, the US has lodged a complaint over the tightening of censorship rules. Google agreed to self-censor in compliance with requests by local officials after setting up a China subsidiary and locally hosted website in 2005. One reason for this controversial decision was that its services were frequently being disrupted or slowed. That has been rare since.The extent of the latest blockage was not immediately apparent, but the head of Google's China operations, Kai-Fu Lee posted a call for patience online: \"We have received your feedback, we are just investigating, please be patient and wait for feedback from Google overseas, thanks for your support.\" Frustration against censorship is high. Angry Chinese bloggers have called for a boycott of the internet on 1 July.", "tags": ["China", "Google", "Gmail", "Internet", "Censorship", "Technology", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China blocks Google services for an hour"},{"date": "2009-05-21T21:00:02Z", "country": "china", "content": "What is the biggest change you have seen in China? And in your own life?In the past five years, my life situation has become worse and worse. I was locked up for two years. They never told me why. I was just petitioning to get back some money that the police had stolen from me. It made me hate the party more and more. I lost hope and confidence in the government.I was beaten and tortured by officials in Baishan in Jilin. I came to Beijing to protest. If the system worked well, the culprits would be punished. But they are not. This is not the problem of one or two officials. It is the whole system, right from the top. Because the top is not doing well, the bottom is suffering even more. Under President Hu [Jintao] the situation for petitioners is even worse than under president Jiang [Zemin].What's your greatest hope for China and for yourself?My greatest hope is that the Communist party will be eradicated. They are not humane. They killed people in Beijing in 1989 and since then, they have killed people in Xinjiang and Guangdong.\u00a0 Police and soldiers fired their guns on ordinary citizens.I hope human rights organisations and foreign nations will join together to criticise the Chinese government. If they do, I think the government won't dare to be so brutal to people. International pressure will help.What is your greatest fear?My greatest worry is that what happened in Tiananmen Square in 1989 will happen again. Even now, many petitioners are looking for a place to hide because they fear police will round them up before 4 June [the 20th anniversary of the crackdown on the Tiananmen Square protests].Before the 2008 Olympics, the government did very bad things to ordinary people. This year, I am afraid it will be worse. I have given up trying to get justice for myself. I just want the world to know what the party and the government have done. We want political reform. There is an ancient saying: \"He who has the people's heart has the nation. He who loses the people's heart loses the nation.\" I think the government has lost the people's hearts since 1989. They are afraid of their own people.", "tags": ["China", "Protest", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China voices: the petitioner"},{"date": "2009-05-20T21:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "What is the biggest change you have seen in China? And in your own life?Our country has solved the problem of starvation. Everyone has enough to eat. Our economy is strong and big. The financial crisis has not affected us much. I haven't noticed any difference in village life, though some migrants have come back home. As individuals, we don't feel that we have got much richer. We don't have much money.\u00a0 The biggest change since I was young is the loss of water. I used to swim in the ponds around our village, but they have all dried up.What's your greatest hope for China and for yourself?I would like the government to provide more support to improve the environment in rural areas. They always say that they treat the city and the countryside equally, but that is not the case when it comes to sanitation. We need more help from above. But I believe our country is generally following the right direction set by our party. We could see the power of China last year during the Olympics and in the way we helped each other after the earthquake. Our country can be the greatest in the world.What is your greatest fear?My biggest concern is my wife's health. She has Alzheimer's. She always supported me by looking after the farmland while I was out. But now, I must stay home and look after her.\u00a0 She has been sick for two years now. We have to pay all our medical bills ourselves. That is tough. Our income is very low. We earn 1,000 to 2,000 yuan (\u00a3100-\u00a3200) per year from our farmland. They say there will be a new medical insurance system later this year that will help us, but I haven't seen anything about it yet.", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China voices: the farmer"},{"date": "2009-05-20T15:00:01Z", "country": "china", "content": "President Obama's decision to name Utah's governor John Huntsman as the new US ambassador to China is a master-stroke of political strategy.Huntsman may be the most important person you've never heard of. He's a moderate Republican governor in one of the most conservative Republican states, where, until the time of his appointment, he enjoyed approval ratings above 80%. A few weeks back, Obama campaign manager David Plouffe unintentionally elevated Huntsman on the national stage by suggesting that he was one of the few Republican politicians that appeared formidable in 2012.Huntsman is young, exceptionally smart, quick on his feet, amiable and incredibly articulate; when he speaks, he exudes reasonableness, a quality almost entirely missing in the modern Republican party. He has the potential to be for the Republican party what Obama was for the Democrats \u2013 a man capable of simultaneously exciting his political base while appealing to the critical group of independent voters. To hear him speak is to know he's a guy an independent would love.In the wake of Plouffe's comments, and a few high profile trips to critical presidential states, Jon Huntsman made his way onto just about every Washington insider's list of possible 2012 Republican presidential contenders. That is, until he joined the Obama administration.Huntsman made a calculation, one that other qualified Republicans will no doubt make when contemplating a run against Obama. Anyone smart enough, capable enough to compete against Obama is going to be smart enough not to run. When Obama kicks off his re-election campaign, he'll do so with a two-million-strong member donor base already in place. He'll do so with over one million volunteers ready to be reactivated. In his first month, he'll likely raise more than $100m in donations. His re-election will dwarf his first campaign in its size and scope, just as his first campaign dwarfed its predecessor in Howard Dean. Just through sheer organization, President Obama will be one of the most difficult presidential incumbent to defeat in American history. Why fall on that sword, Huntsman must have wondered, when Bobby Jindal and Sarah Palin have already eagerly volunteered?And so, Governor Huntsman will become Ambassador Huntsman and will spend the next few years building his bipartisan foreign policy credentials for a shot at the White House in 2016. Many on the left have already expressed frustration that Obama would provide such a valuable talking point to the opposition of his successor, and have argued that Obama sold out his party to protect his own reelection. But Obama too has made a calculation, and it has nothing to do with 2012. The president recognizes that the Republican party is quickly unfurling and that those currently leading it will be incapable, over the next few years, to right such a wayward ship. There are few Republicans who can fill the void, reverse the hemorrhaging and rebuild the party. Huntsman, once counted among those few, is now off the stage, and on the other side of the world. By co-opting such a valuable politician, Obama has left the GOP flailing. Without a reasonable voice, the rattle from the skeleton of a once dominant party will echo unchecked.Will the Beijing ambassadorship help Huntsman in his presidential bid in 2016? Surely, to some extent it will. Adding foreign policy experience to a governor's resume does make for an appealing candidate. But it doesn't lessen the obstacle that Huntsman will face \u2013 a Republican primary electorate that will be as unforgiving of his Mormon faith as it will be of his time in the Obama administration. And after eight years of John Boehner and Sarah Palin, of Mitch McConnell and Rush Limbaugh, Huntsman may find that there isn't much party left to mobilise.Ultimately, Obama has understood what his predecessor Lyndon Johnson said best: \"Better inside the tent pissing out than outside the tent pissing in.\"", "tags": ["Republicans", "US elections 2012", "Obama administration", "China", "US news", "World news", "US politics", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "The Republicans' China syndrome | Dylan Loewe"},{"date": "2009-06-24T18:51:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Google suffered intensive disruption in China tonight just days after it was warned by the authorities to scale back its search operations.Search functions and Gmail were inaccessible for more than an hour in a move seen by web watchers as a warning shot across the bows by China's censors.\"This is definitely a warning to Google, as well as other foreign companies,\" said Xiao Qiang, the founder of China Digital Times. \"It is also a strong warning to Chinese netizens. The government is showing its determination to keep the internet under control.\"Earlier in the day, the main state and communist party media - Xinhua and People's Daily - condemned Google for providing links to pornographic websites through its search engine. Last week, the government ordered the US company to halt foreign website searches as a punishment.Many Chinese netizens believe the move is intended to distract attention away from the domestic controversy over Green Dam censorship software, which must be sold with all new computers from 1 July.In a rare move, the US has lodged a complaint over the tightening of censorship rules. Google agreed to self-censor in compliance with requests by local officials after setting up a China subsidiary and locally hosted website in 2005. One reason for this controversial decision was that its services were frequently being disrupted or slowed. That has been rare since.The extent of the latest blockage was not immediately apparent, but the head of Google's China operations, Kai-Fu Lee posted a call for patience online: \"We have received your feedback, we are just investigating, please be patient and wait for feedback from Google overseas, thanks for your support.\" Frustration against censorship is high. Angry Chinese bloggers have called for a boycott of the internet on 1 July.", "tags": ["China", "Google", "Gmail", "Internet", "Censorship", "Technology", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China blocks Google services for an hour"},{"date": "2009-05-21T21:00:02Z", "country": "china", "content": "What is the biggest change you have seen in China? And in your own life?In the past five years, my life situation has become worse and worse. I was locked up for two years. They never told me why. I was just petitioning to get back some money that the police had stolen from me. It made me hate the party more and more. I lost hope and confidence in the government.I was beaten and tortured by officials in Baishan in Jilin. I came to Beijing to protest. If the system worked well, the culprits would be punished. But they are not. This is not the problem of one or two officials. It is the whole system, right from the top. Because the top is not doing well, the bottom is suffering even more. Under President Hu [Jintao] the situation for petitioners is even worse than under president Jiang [Zemin].What's your greatest hope for China and for yourself?My greatest hope is that the Communist party will be eradicated. They are not humane. They killed people in Beijing in 1989 and since then, they have killed people in Xinjiang and Guangdong.\u00a0 Police and soldiers fired their guns on ordinary citizens.I hope human rights organisations and foreign nations will join together to criticise the Chinese government. If they do, I think the government won't dare to be so brutal to people. International pressure will help.What is your greatest fear?My greatest worry is that what happened in Tiananmen Square in 1989 will happen again. Even now, many petitioners are looking for a place to hide because they fear police will round them up before 4 June [the 20th anniversary of the crackdown on the Tiananmen Square protests].Before the 2008 Olympics, the government did very bad things to ordinary people. This year, I am afraid it will be worse. I have given up trying to get justice for myself. I just want the world to know what the party and the government have done. We want political reform. There is an ancient saying: \"He who has the people's heart has the nation. He who loses the people's heart loses the nation.\" I think the government has lost the people's hearts since 1989. They are afraid of their own people.", "tags": ["China", "Protest", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China voices: the petitioner"},{"date": "2009-05-20T21:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "What is the biggest change you have seen in China? And in your own life?Our country has solved the problem of starvation. Everyone has enough to eat. Our economy is strong and big. The financial crisis has not affected us much. I haven't noticed any difference in village life, though some migrants have come back home. As individuals, we don't feel that we have got much richer. We don't have much money.\u00a0 The biggest change since I was young is the loss of water. I used to swim in the ponds around our village, but they have all dried up.What's your greatest hope for China and for yourself?I would like the government to provide more support to improve the environment in rural areas. They always say that they treat the city and the countryside equally, but that is not the case when it comes to sanitation. We need more help from above. But I believe our country is generally following the right direction set by our party. We could see the power of China last year during the Olympics and in the way we helped each other after the earthquake. Our country can be the greatest in the world.What is your greatest fear?My biggest concern is my wife's health. She has Alzheimer's. She always supported me by looking after the farmland while I was out. But now, I must stay home and look after her.\u00a0 She has been sick for two years now. We have to pay all our medical bills ourselves. That is tough. Our income is very low. We earn 1,000 to 2,000 yuan (\u00a3100-\u00a3200) per year from our farmland. They say there will be a new medical insurance system later this year that will help us, but I haven't seen anything about it yet.", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China voices: the farmer"},{"date": "2009-05-20T15:00:01Z", "country": "china", "content": "President Obama's decision to name Utah's governor John Huntsman as the new US ambassador to China is a master-stroke of political strategy.Huntsman may be the most important person you've never heard of. He's a moderate Republican governor in one of the most conservative Republican states, where, until the time of his appointment, he enjoyed approval ratings above 80%. A few weeks back, Obama campaign manager David Plouffe unintentionally elevated Huntsman on the national stage by suggesting that he was one of the few Republican politicians that appeared formidable in 2012.Huntsman is young, exceptionally smart, quick on his feet, amiable and incredibly articulate; when he speaks, he exudes reasonableness, a quality almost entirely missing in the modern Republican party. He has the potential to be for the Republican party what Obama was for the Democrats \u2013 a man capable of simultaneously exciting his political base while appealing to the critical group of independent voters. To hear him speak is to know he's a guy an independent would love.In the wake of Plouffe's comments, and a few high profile trips to critical presidential states, Jon Huntsman made his way onto just about every Washington insider's list of possible 2012 Republican presidential contenders. That is, until he joined the Obama administration.Huntsman made a calculation, one that other qualified Republicans will no doubt make when contemplating a run against Obama. Anyone smart enough, capable enough to compete against Obama is going to be smart enough not to run. When Obama kicks off his re-election campaign, he'll do so with a two-million-strong member donor base already in place. He'll do so with over one million volunteers ready to be reactivated. In his first month, he'll likely raise more than $100m in donations. His re-election will dwarf his first campaign in its size and scope, just as his first campaign dwarfed its predecessor in Howard Dean. Just through sheer organization, President Obama will be one of the most difficult presidential incumbent to defeat in American history. Why fall on that sword, Huntsman must have wondered, when Bobby Jindal and Sarah Palin have already eagerly volunteered?And so, Governor Huntsman will become Ambassador Huntsman and will spend the next few years building his bipartisan foreign policy credentials for a shot at the White House in 2016. Many on the left have already expressed frustration that Obama would provide such a valuable talking point to the opposition of his successor, and have argued that Obama sold out his party to protect his own reelection. But Obama too has made a calculation, and it has nothing to do with 2012. The president recognizes that the Republican party is quickly unfurling and that those currently leading it will be incapable, over the next few years, to right such a wayward ship. There are few Republicans who can fill the void, reverse the hemorrhaging and rebuild the party. Huntsman, once counted among those few, is now off the stage, and on the other side of the world. By co-opting such a valuable politician, Obama has left the GOP flailing. Without a reasonable voice, the rattle from the skeleton of a once dominant party will echo unchecked.Will the Beijing ambassadorship help Huntsman in his presidential bid in 2016? Surely, to some extent it will. Adding foreign policy experience to a governor's resume does make for an appealing candidate. But it doesn't lessen the obstacle that Huntsman will face \u2013 a Republican primary electorate that will be as unforgiving of his Mormon faith as it will be of his time in the Obama administration. And after eight years of John Boehner and Sarah Palin, of Mitch McConnell and Rush Limbaugh, Huntsman may find that there isn't much party left to mobilise.Ultimately, Obama has understood what his predecessor Lyndon Johnson said best: \"Better inside the tent pissing out than outside the tent pissing in.\"", "tags": ["Republicans", "US elections 2012", "Obama administration", "China", "US news", "World news", "US politics", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "The Republicans' China syndrome | Dylan Loewe"},{"date": "2009-05-17T22:00:01Z", "country": "china", "content": "In the past most people were very poor. We lived in houses built up from dry grass. There was no electricity nor gas and we carried heavy wood from the mountains to cook with. You depended on what you grew, and if you met natural disasters it was very possible you were left with nothing to eat. But things have changed totally \u2013 farmers build houses up to five storeys high and I hear some use washing machines. Men work out as migrants and women stay but have a lighter burden because they have fewer children. They won't suffer from hunger anymore; they've started to worry about high blood pressure and cholesterol. In the countryside, women used to only depend on their father, brothers or husband. So when I got a job in the city I felt I had stood up and become the master of my life. And we had more information \u2013 in the countryside we could not eat properly, so how could there be newspapers?My biggest hope for myself is good health and safety and health for all my relatives. I hope that the country prospers and the people are at peace.I don't have many worries. My two sons worked out well and no longer need our support; they support me and my husband instead. My granddaughter has started work and my grandson is at university. Everything is good. Under the new healthcare plan, we only need to pay 8% if buying medicine, and after I turned 70 I got a senior citizen's pass allowing me to go to any park and take any bus for free. In fact, our pensions are more than what we spend every month so I feel no burden.", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China voices: the pensioner"},{"date": "2009-06-24T18:51:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Google suffered intensive disruption in China tonight just days after it was warned by the authorities to scale back its search operations.Search functions and Gmail were inaccessible for more than an hour in a move seen by web watchers as a warning shot across the bows by China's censors.\"This is definitely a warning to Google, as well as other foreign companies,\" said Xiao Qiang, the founder of China Digital Times. \"It is also a strong warning to Chinese netizens. The government is showing its determination to keep the internet under control.\"Earlier in the day, the main state and communist party media - Xinhua and People's Daily - condemned Google for providing links to pornographic websites through its search engine. Last week, the government ordered the US company to halt foreign website searches as a punishment.Many Chinese netizens believe the move is intended to distract attention away from the domestic controversy over Green Dam censorship software, which must be sold with all new computers from 1 July.In a rare move, the US has lodged a complaint over the tightening of censorship rules. Google agreed to self-censor in compliance with requests by local officials after setting up a China subsidiary and locally hosted website in 2005. One reason for this controversial decision was that its services were frequently being disrupted or slowed. That has been rare since.The extent of the latest blockage was not immediately apparent, but the head of Google's China operations, Kai-Fu Lee posted a call for patience online: \"We have received your feedback, we are just investigating, please be patient and wait for feedback from Google overseas, thanks for your support.\" Frustration against censorship is high. Angry Chinese bloggers have called for a boycott of the internet on 1 July.", "tags": ["China", "Google", "Gmail", "Internet", "Censorship", "Technology", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China blocks Google services for an hour"},{"date": "2009-05-21T21:00:02Z", "country": "china", "content": "What is the biggest change you have seen in China? And in your own life?In the past five years, my life situation has become worse and worse. I was locked up for two years. They never told me why. I was just petitioning to get back some money that the police had stolen from me. It made me hate the party more and more. I lost hope and confidence in the government.I was beaten and tortured by officials in Baishan in Jilin. I came to Beijing to protest. If the system worked well, the culprits would be punished. But they are not. This is not the problem of one or two officials. It is the whole system, right from the top. Because the top is not doing well, the bottom is suffering even more. Under President Hu [Jintao] the situation for petitioners is even worse than under president Jiang [Zemin].What's your greatest hope for China and for yourself?My greatest hope is that the Communist party will be eradicated. They are not humane. They killed people in Beijing in 1989 and since then, they have killed people in Xinjiang and Guangdong.\u00a0 Police and soldiers fired their guns on ordinary citizens.I hope human rights organisations and foreign nations will join together to criticise the Chinese government. If they do, I think the government won't dare to be so brutal to people. International pressure will help.What is your greatest fear?My greatest worry is that what happened in Tiananmen Square in 1989 will happen again. Even now, many petitioners are looking for a place to hide because they fear police will round them up before 4 June [the 20th anniversary of the crackdown on the Tiananmen Square protests].Before the 2008 Olympics, the government did very bad things to ordinary people. This year, I am afraid it will be worse. I have given up trying to get justice for myself. I just want the world to know what the party and the government have done. We want political reform. There is an ancient saying: \"He who has the people's heart has the nation. He who loses the people's heart loses the nation.\" I think the government has lost the people's hearts since 1989. They are afraid of their own people.", "tags": ["China", "Protest", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China voices: the petitioner"},{"date": "2009-05-20T21:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "What is the biggest change you have seen in China? And in your own life?Our country has solved the problem of starvation. Everyone has enough to eat. Our economy is strong and big. The financial crisis has not affected us much. I haven't noticed any difference in village life, though some migrants have come back home. As individuals, we don't feel that we have got much richer. We don't have much money.\u00a0 The biggest change since I was young is the loss of water. I used to swim in the ponds around our village, but they have all dried up.What's your greatest hope for China and for yourself?I would like the government to provide more support to improve the environment in rural areas. They always say that they treat the city and the countryside equally, but that is not the case when it comes to sanitation. We need more help from above. But I believe our country is generally following the right direction set by our party. We could see the power of China last year during the Olympics and in the way we helped each other after the earthquake. Our country can be the greatest in the world.What is your greatest fear?My biggest concern is my wife's health. She has Alzheimer's. She always supported me by looking after the farmland while I was out. But now, I must stay home and look after her.\u00a0 She has been sick for two years now. We have to pay all our medical bills ourselves. That is tough. Our income is very low. We earn 1,000 to 2,000 yuan (\u00a3100-\u00a3200) per year from our farmland. They say there will be a new medical insurance system later this year that will help us, but I haven't seen anything about it yet.", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China voices: the farmer"},{"date": "2009-05-20T15:00:01Z", "country": "china", "content": "President Obama's decision to name Utah's governor John Huntsman as the new US ambassador to China is a master-stroke of political strategy.Huntsman may be the most important person you've never heard of. He's a moderate Republican governor in one of the most conservative Republican states, where, until the time of his appointment, he enjoyed approval ratings above 80%. A few weeks back, Obama campaign manager David Plouffe unintentionally elevated Huntsman on the national stage by suggesting that he was one of the few Republican politicians that appeared formidable in 2012.Huntsman is young, exceptionally smart, quick on his feet, amiable and incredibly articulate; when he speaks, he exudes reasonableness, a quality almost entirely missing in the modern Republican party. He has the potential to be for the Republican party what Obama was for the Democrats \u2013 a man capable of simultaneously exciting his political base while appealing to the critical group of independent voters. To hear him speak is to know he's a guy an independent would love.In the wake of Plouffe's comments, and a few high profile trips to critical presidential states, Jon Huntsman made his way onto just about every Washington insider's list of possible 2012 Republican presidential contenders. That is, until he joined the Obama administration.Huntsman made a calculation, one that other qualified Republicans will no doubt make when contemplating a run against Obama. Anyone smart enough, capable enough to compete against Obama is going to be smart enough not to run. When Obama kicks off his re-election campaign, he'll do so with a two-million-strong member donor base already in place. He'll do so with over one million volunteers ready to be reactivated. In his first month, he'll likely raise more than $100m in donations. His re-election will dwarf his first campaign in its size and scope, just as his first campaign dwarfed its predecessor in Howard Dean. Just through sheer organization, President Obama will be one of the most difficult presidential incumbent to defeat in American history. Why fall on that sword, Huntsman must have wondered, when Bobby Jindal and Sarah Palin have already eagerly volunteered?And so, Governor Huntsman will become Ambassador Huntsman and will spend the next few years building his bipartisan foreign policy credentials for a shot at the White House in 2016. Many on the left have already expressed frustration that Obama would provide such a valuable talking point to the opposition of his successor, and have argued that Obama sold out his party to protect his own reelection. But Obama too has made a calculation, and it has nothing to do with 2012. The president recognizes that the Republican party is quickly unfurling and that those currently leading it will be incapable, over the next few years, to right such a wayward ship. There are few Republicans who can fill the void, reverse the hemorrhaging and rebuild the party. Huntsman, once counted among those few, is now off the stage, and on the other side of the world. By co-opting such a valuable politician, Obama has left the GOP flailing. Without a reasonable voice, the rattle from the skeleton of a once dominant party will echo unchecked.Will the Beijing ambassadorship help Huntsman in his presidential bid in 2016? Surely, to some extent it will. Adding foreign policy experience to a governor's resume does make for an appealing candidate. But it doesn't lessen the obstacle that Huntsman will face \u2013 a Republican primary electorate that will be as unforgiving of his Mormon faith as it will be of his time in the Obama administration. And after eight years of John Boehner and Sarah Palin, of Mitch McConnell and Rush Limbaugh, Huntsman may find that there isn't much party left to mobilise.Ultimately, Obama has understood what his predecessor Lyndon Johnson said best: \"Better inside the tent pissing out than outside the tent pissing in.\"", "tags": ["Republicans", "US elections 2012", "Obama administration", "China", "US news", "World news", "US politics", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "The Republicans' China syndrome | Dylan Loewe"},{"date": "2009-05-17T22:00:01Z", "country": "china", "content": "In the past most people were very poor. We lived in houses built up from dry grass. There was no electricity nor gas and we carried heavy wood from the mountains to cook with. You depended on what you grew, and if you met natural disasters it was very possible you were left with nothing to eat. But things have changed totally \u2013 farmers build houses up to five storeys high and I hear some use washing machines. Men work out as migrants and women stay but have a lighter burden because they have fewer children. They won't suffer from hunger anymore; they've started to worry about high blood pressure and cholesterol. In the countryside, women used to only depend on their father, brothers or husband. So when I got a job in the city I felt I had stood up and become the master of my life. And we had more information \u2013 in the countryside we could not eat properly, so how could there be newspapers?My biggest hope for myself is good health and safety and health for all my relatives. I hope that the country prospers and the people are at peace.I don't have many worries. My two sons worked out well and no longer need our support; they support me and my husband instead. My granddaughter has started work and my grandson is at university. Everything is good. Under the new healthcare plan, we only need to pay 8% if buying medicine, and after I turned 70 I got a senior citizen's pass allowing me to go to any park and take any bus for free. In fact, our pensions are more than what we spend every month so I feel no burden.", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China voices: the pensioner"},{"date": "2009-05-18T18:13:22Z", "country": "china", "content": "What is the biggest change you have seen in China? And in your own life?In the past people did not care about hygiene and would spit and throw rubbish on the streets, but now they've become more polite. The biggest change in my life was moving out of the countryside when I was six. I had to help my grandparents farm; it was very tiring. There were snakes which were frightening and I could always smell shit. We ate vegetables more than meat and sometimes I saw worms in our meals. Now we live in the city, I feel happy. I even feel the bitter melon we eat tastes sweet. I work in a wedding photo shop at weekends; I\u00a0never knew such a thing existed. What's your greatest hope for China and for yourself?I hope our country can save more trees and forests. When I was in the countryside, there were trees everywhere and I\u00a0used to talk to them when I felt unhappy \u2013 they were like friends. But now I see fewer and fewer, and birds have lost their homes. Personally, I hope to start \u00adworking when I finish school; my family's not rich so I want to earn money to help my \u00adparents. When I was a kid I wanted to be a teacher, but now I think being a model or an actor or singer would be better; life would be more interesting and I could earn more.What's your biggest fear?Losing everything I have now. Last year's earthquake in Sichuan still casts its shadow on me. I've heard there is a serious economic crisis all over the world and some boys in our school said the end of the world is coming. I feel terrified sometimes when I think about it. I'm happy with my life and it's just started, so I'm afraid of losing it.", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China voices: the schoolgirl"},{"date": "2009-06-24T18:51:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Google suffered intensive disruption in China tonight just days after it was warned by the authorities to scale back its search operations.Search functions and Gmail were inaccessible for more than an hour in a move seen by web watchers as a warning shot across the bows by China's censors.\"This is definitely a warning to Google, as well as other foreign companies,\" said Xiao Qiang, the founder of China Digital Times. \"It is also a strong warning to Chinese netizens. The government is showing its determination to keep the internet under control.\"Earlier in the day, the main state and communist party media - Xinhua and People's Daily - condemned Google for providing links to pornographic websites through its search engine. Last week, the government ordered the US company to halt foreign website searches as a punishment.Many Chinese netizens believe the move is intended to distract attention away from the domestic controversy over Green Dam censorship software, which must be sold with all new computers from 1 July.In a rare move, the US has lodged a complaint over the tightening of censorship rules. Google agreed to self-censor in compliance with requests by local officials after setting up a China subsidiary and locally hosted website in 2005. One reason for this controversial decision was that its services were frequently being disrupted or slowed. That has been rare since.The extent of the latest blockage was not immediately apparent, but the head of Google's China operations, Kai-Fu Lee posted a call for patience online: \"We have received your feedback, we are just investigating, please be patient and wait for feedback from Google overseas, thanks for your support.\" Frustration against censorship is high. Angry Chinese bloggers have called for a boycott of the internet on 1 July.", "tags": ["China", "Google", "Gmail", "Internet", "Censorship", "Technology", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China blocks Google services for an hour"},{"date": "2009-05-21T21:00:02Z", "country": "china", "content": "What is the biggest change you have seen in China? And in your own life?In the past five years, my life situation has become worse and worse. I was locked up for two years. They never told me why. I was just petitioning to get back some money that the police had stolen from me. It made me hate the party more and more. I lost hope and confidence in the government.I was beaten and tortured by officials in Baishan in Jilin. I came to Beijing to protest. If the system worked well, the culprits would be punished. But they are not. This is not the problem of one or two officials. It is the whole system, right from the top. Because the top is not doing well, the bottom is suffering even more. Under President Hu [Jintao] the situation for petitioners is even worse than under president Jiang [Zemin].What's your greatest hope for China and for yourself?My greatest hope is that the Communist party will be eradicated. They are not humane. They killed people in Beijing in 1989 and since then, they have killed people in Xinjiang and Guangdong.\u00a0 Police and soldiers fired their guns on ordinary citizens.I hope human rights organisations and foreign nations will join together to criticise the Chinese government. If they do, I think the government won't dare to be so brutal to people. International pressure will help.What is your greatest fear?My greatest worry is that what happened in Tiananmen Square in 1989 will happen again. Even now, many petitioners are looking for a place to hide because they fear police will round them up before 4 June [the 20th anniversary of the crackdown on the Tiananmen Square protests].Before the 2008 Olympics, the government did very bad things to ordinary people. This year, I am afraid it will be worse. I have given up trying to get justice for myself. I just want the world to know what the party and the government have done. We want political reform. There is an ancient saying: \"He who has the people's heart has the nation. He who loses the people's heart loses the nation.\" I think the government has lost the people's hearts since 1989. They are afraid of their own people.", "tags": ["China", "Protest", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China voices: the petitioner"},{"date": "2009-05-20T21:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "What is the biggest change you have seen in China? And in your own life?Our country has solved the problem of starvation. Everyone has enough to eat. Our economy is strong and big. The financial crisis has not affected us much. I haven't noticed any difference in village life, though some migrants have come back home. As individuals, we don't feel that we have got much richer. We don't have much money.\u00a0 The biggest change since I was young is the loss of water. I used to swim in the ponds around our village, but they have all dried up.What's your greatest hope for China and for yourself?I would like the government to provide more support to improve the environment in rural areas. They always say that they treat the city and the countryside equally, but that is not the case when it comes to sanitation. We need more help from above. But I believe our country is generally following the right direction set by our party. We could see the power of China last year during the Olympics and in the way we helped each other after the earthquake. Our country can be the greatest in the world.What is your greatest fear?My biggest concern is my wife's health. She has Alzheimer's. She always supported me by looking after the farmland while I was out. But now, I must stay home and look after her.\u00a0 She has been sick for two years now. We have to pay all our medical bills ourselves. That is tough. Our income is very low. We earn 1,000 to 2,000 yuan (\u00a3100-\u00a3200) per year from our farmland. They say there will be a new medical insurance system later this year that will help us, but I haven't seen anything about it yet.", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China voices: the farmer"},{"date": "2009-05-20T15:00:01Z", "country": "china", "content": "President Obama's decision to name Utah's governor John Huntsman as the new US ambassador to China is a master-stroke of political strategy.Huntsman may be the most important person you've never heard of. He's a moderate Republican governor in one of the most conservative Republican states, where, until the time of his appointment, he enjoyed approval ratings above 80%. A few weeks back, Obama campaign manager David Plouffe unintentionally elevated Huntsman on the national stage by suggesting that he was one of the few Republican politicians that appeared formidable in 2012.Huntsman is young, exceptionally smart, quick on his feet, amiable and incredibly articulate; when he speaks, he exudes reasonableness, a quality almost entirely missing in the modern Republican party. He has the potential to be for the Republican party what Obama was for the Democrats \u2013 a man capable of simultaneously exciting his political base while appealing to the critical group of independent voters. To hear him speak is to know he's a guy an independent would love.In the wake of Plouffe's comments, and a few high profile trips to critical presidential states, Jon Huntsman made his way onto just about every Washington insider's list of possible 2012 Republican presidential contenders. That is, until he joined the Obama administration.Huntsman made a calculation, one that other qualified Republicans will no doubt make when contemplating a run against Obama. Anyone smart enough, capable enough to compete against Obama is going to be smart enough not to run. When Obama kicks off his re-election campaign, he'll do so with a two-million-strong member donor base already in place. He'll do so with over one million volunteers ready to be reactivated. In his first month, he'll likely raise more than $100m in donations. His re-election will dwarf his first campaign in its size and scope, just as his first campaign dwarfed its predecessor in Howard Dean. Just through sheer organization, President Obama will be one of the most difficult presidential incumbent to defeat in American history. Why fall on that sword, Huntsman must have wondered, when Bobby Jindal and Sarah Palin have already eagerly volunteered?And so, Governor Huntsman will become Ambassador Huntsman and will spend the next few years building his bipartisan foreign policy credentials for a shot at the White House in 2016. Many on the left have already expressed frustration that Obama would provide such a valuable talking point to the opposition of his successor, and have argued that Obama sold out his party to protect his own reelection. But Obama too has made a calculation, and it has nothing to do with 2012. The president recognizes that the Republican party is quickly unfurling and that those currently leading it will be incapable, over the next few years, to right such a wayward ship. There are few Republicans who can fill the void, reverse the hemorrhaging and rebuild the party. Huntsman, once counted among those few, is now off the stage, and on the other side of the world. By co-opting such a valuable politician, Obama has left the GOP flailing. Without a reasonable voice, the rattle from the skeleton of a once dominant party will echo unchecked.Will the Beijing ambassadorship help Huntsman in his presidential bid in 2016? Surely, to some extent it will. Adding foreign policy experience to a governor's resume does make for an appealing candidate. But it doesn't lessen the obstacle that Huntsman will face \u2013 a Republican primary electorate that will be as unforgiving of his Mormon faith as it will be of his time in the Obama administration. And after eight years of John Boehner and Sarah Palin, of Mitch McConnell and Rush Limbaugh, Huntsman may find that there isn't much party left to mobilise.Ultimately, Obama has understood what his predecessor Lyndon Johnson said best: \"Better inside the tent pissing out than outside the tent pissing in.\"", "tags": ["Republicans", "US elections 2012", "Obama administration", "China", "US news", "World news", "US politics", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "The Republicans' China syndrome | Dylan Loewe"},{"date": "2009-05-17T22:00:01Z", "country": "china", "content": "In the past most people were very poor. We lived in houses built up from dry grass. There was no electricity nor gas and we carried heavy wood from the mountains to cook with. You depended on what you grew, and if you met natural disasters it was very possible you were left with nothing to eat. But things have changed totally \u2013 farmers build houses up to five storeys high and I hear some use washing machines. Men work out as migrants and women stay but have a lighter burden because they have fewer children. They won't suffer from hunger anymore; they've started to worry about high blood pressure and cholesterol. In the countryside, women used to only depend on their father, brothers or husband. So when I got a job in the city I felt I had stood up and become the master of my life. And we had more information \u2013 in the countryside we could not eat properly, so how could there be newspapers?My biggest hope for myself is good health and safety and health for all my relatives. I hope that the country prospers and the people are at peace.I don't have many worries. My two sons worked out well and no longer need our support; they support me and my husband instead. My granddaughter has started work and my grandson is at university. Everything is good. Under the new healthcare plan, we only need to pay 8% if buying medicine, and after I turned 70 I got a senior citizen's pass allowing me to go to any park and take any bus for free. In fact, our pensions are more than what we spend every month so I feel no burden.", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China voices: the pensioner"},{"date": "2009-05-18T18:13:22Z", "country": "china", "content": "What is the biggest change you have seen in China? And in your own life?In the past people did not care about hygiene and would spit and throw rubbish on the streets, but now they've become more polite. The biggest change in my life was moving out of the countryside when I was six. I had to help my grandparents farm; it was very tiring. There were snakes which were frightening and I could always smell shit. We ate vegetables more than meat and sometimes I saw worms in our meals. Now we live in the city, I feel happy. I even feel the bitter melon we eat tastes sweet. I work in a wedding photo shop at weekends; I\u00a0never knew such a thing existed. What's your greatest hope for China and for yourself?I hope our country can save more trees and forests. When I was in the countryside, there were trees everywhere and I\u00a0used to talk to them when I felt unhappy \u2013 they were like friends. But now I see fewer and fewer, and birds have lost their homes. Personally, I hope to start \u00adworking when I finish school; my family's not rich so I want to earn money to help my \u00adparents. When I was a kid I wanted to be a teacher, but now I think being a model or an actor or singer would be better; life would be more interesting and I could earn more.What's your biggest fear?Losing everything I have now. Last year's earthquake in Sichuan still casts its shadow on me. I've heard there is a serious economic crisis all over the world and some boys in our school said the end of the world is coming. I feel terrified sometimes when I think about it. I'm happy with my life and it's just started, so I'm afraid of losing it.", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China voices: the schoolgirl"},{"date": "2009-05-18T13:42:53Z", "country": "china", "content": "Many would be justified in thinking that China has already \"gone global\". This phrase, though, has a special significance for China, referring to a policy started in the mid 1990s to make its firms globally competitive. A decade later, it permitted the first outward foreign direct investment by a commercial firm, TCL, who acquired Thomson of France. The next few years witnessed Lenovo's purchase of IBM's PC business and a slew of other attempts, for example, Haier's failed bid for Maytag.The trend, though, slowed with the onset of the global financial crisis. Until the full extent of the crisis was evident last autumn, Chinese firms ranging from insurance companies to manufacturers were raising funds on domestic stock exchanges, tapping the high level of domestic saving essentially trapped in China, to position themselves to purchase distressed western companies which were suffering from the credit crunch, but were otherwise good prospects. With some signs of stability in the west, Chinese firms are resuming their \"going out\" policy. Even last year, China invested $56bn in outward foreign direct investment, a 194% increase from the previous year. With inward foreign direct investment averaging some $60bn per year, China is poised to turn from a net recipient to a net investor in FDI, a marker of its maturation in many respects.Certainly, throughout the crisis and before, state-owned Chinese firms have been actively investing in energy and commodity firms around the world, from Africa to Latin America. But, the interesting shift in policy is that commercial Chinese firms are seeking to establish themselves globally, with competition being stiff in many sectors of the domestic economy. Perhaps more crucial is the learning and acquisition of technology that can occur when firms operate in global markets. As China's productivity slowed in the mid 1990s relative to the early years of reform after 1979 this was a strong motivation to get Chinese firms onto the world stage.The wider implications of this policy include a continuation of the global imbalances whereby China and other high savings countries fund western borrowing. But, instead of China's current account surplus (which has hit record highs due to the greater decline in imports relative to exports) being mostly financed by purchases of western government debt, Chinese capital outflows would go into foreign firms. And such investments could therefore potentially ease the credit crunch in the west where companies are suffering from the withdrawal of credit while the banking system stabilises \u2013 while also lessening Chinese concerns over weakening western currencies due to the potential monetisation of government borrowing leading to inflation. Commercial investment by Chinese firms would help western firms weather the global credit crunch while the western firms de-leverage. It is also a more efficient way of exporting high levels of Chinese savings than via its sovereign wealth funds since private firms are better than government entities in choosing investments and in theory, less controversial. However, herein lies the key challenge.The opacity of Chinese firms, including those which are listed on stock exchanges in New York and London, leads to questions over the extent to which they are truly private. This will be an ever-prominent issue. The backlash in Australia against Chinalco's investment, which is financed by a Chinese policy bank (China Development Bank), in Rio Tinto is but one example. There is, therefore, a strong imperative for the Chinese to improve the transparency of their firms so that their non-state firms \u2013 which are the engines of their successful transition process \u2013 can enter global markets. This means greater clarity in ultimate shareholding structures, sources of finance, corporate governance and adoption of internationally accepted accountancy standards. With the UK-China summit that concluded earlier this year, the emphasis on British firms offering expertise is well placed. There are significant opportunities for firms in Britain to provide advice to Chinese companies seeking to operate in global markets. It is a valuable avenue for promoting growth in export of services \u2013something that has been important to the British economy and thus its potential for recovery.The benefit of the \"going global\" policy will ultimately build up the Chinese economy, as their firms move up the value chain and help the country to \"catch up.\" Prospects for growth may well depend on its success.", "tags": ["China", "Investing", "Credit crunch", "Global recession", "Economics", "Business", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China goes global | Linda Yueh"},{"date": "2009-06-24T18:51:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Google suffered intensive disruption in China tonight just days after it was warned by the authorities to scale back its search operations.Search functions and Gmail were inaccessible for more than an hour in a move seen by web watchers as a warning shot across the bows by China's censors.\"This is definitely a warning to Google, as well as other foreign companies,\" said Xiao Qiang, the founder of China Digital Times. \"It is also a strong warning to Chinese netizens. The government is showing its determination to keep the internet under control.\"Earlier in the day, the main state and communist party media - Xinhua and People's Daily - condemned Google for providing links to pornographic websites through its search engine. Last week, the government ordered the US company to halt foreign website searches as a punishment.Many Chinese netizens believe the move is intended to distract attention away from the domestic controversy over Green Dam censorship software, which must be sold with all new computers from 1 July.In a rare move, the US has lodged a complaint over the tightening of censorship rules. Google agreed to self-censor in compliance with requests by local officials after setting up a China subsidiary and locally hosted website in 2005. One reason for this controversial decision was that its services were frequently being disrupted or slowed. That has been rare since.The extent of the latest blockage was not immediately apparent, but the head of Google's China operations, Kai-Fu Lee posted a call for patience online: \"We have received your feedback, we are just investigating, please be patient and wait for feedback from Google overseas, thanks for your support.\" Frustration against censorship is high. Angry Chinese bloggers have called for a boycott of the internet on 1 July.", "tags": ["China", "Google", "Gmail", "Internet", "Censorship", "Technology", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China blocks Google services for an hour"},{"date": "2009-05-21T21:00:02Z", "country": "china", "content": "What is the biggest change you have seen in China? And in your own life?In the past five years, my life situation has become worse and worse. I was locked up for two years. They never told me why. I was just petitioning to get back some money that the police had stolen from me. It made me hate the party more and more. I lost hope and confidence in the government.I was beaten and tortured by officials in Baishan in Jilin. I came to Beijing to protest. If the system worked well, the culprits would be punished. But they are not. This is not the problem of one or two officials. It is the whole system, right from the top. Because the top is not doing well, the bottom is suffering even more. Under President Hu [Jintao] the situation for petitioners is even worse than under president Jiang [Zemin].What's your greatest hope for China and for yourself?My greatest hope is that the Communist party will be eradicated. They are not humane. They killed people in Beijing in 1989 and since then, they have killed people in Xinjiang and Guangdong.\u00a0 Police and soldiers fired their guns on ordinary citizens.I hope human rights organisations and foreign nations will join together to criticise the Chinese government. If they do, I think the government won't dare to be so brutal to people. International pressure will help.What is your greatest fear?My greatest worry is that what happened in Tiananmen Square in 1989 will happen again. Even now, many petitioners are looking for a place to hide because they fear police will round them up before 4 June [the 20th anniversary of the crackdown on the Tiananmen Square protests].Before the 2008 Olympics, the government did very bad things to ordinary people. This year, I am afraid it will be worse. I have given up trying to get justice for myself. I just want the world to know what the party and the government have done. We want political reform. There is an ancient saying: \"He who has the people's heart has the nation. He who loses the people's heart loses the nation.\" I think the government has lost the people's hearts since 1989. They are afraid of their own people.", "tags": ["China", "Protest", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China voices: the petitioner"},{"date": "2009-05-20T21:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "What is the biggest change you have seen in China? And in your own life?Our country has solved the problem of starvation. Everyone has enough to eat. Our economy is strong and big. The financial crisis has not affected us much. I haven't noticed any difference in village life, though some migrants have come back home. As individuals, we don't feel that we have got much richer. We don't have much money.\u00a0 The biggest change since I was young is the loss of water. I used to swim in the ponds around our village, but they have all dried up.What's your greatest hope for China and for yourself?I would like the government to provide more support to improve the environment in rural areas. They always say that they treat the city and the countryside equally, but that is not the case when it comes to sanitation. We need more help from above. But I believe our country is generally following the right direction set by our party. We could see the power of China last year during the Olympics and in the way we helped each other after the earthquake. Our country can be the greatest in the world.What is your greatest fear?My biggest concern is my wife's health. She has Alzheimer's. She always supported me by looking after the farmland while I was out. But now, I must stay home and look after her.\u00a0 She has been sick for two years now. We have to pay all our medical bills ourselves. That is tough. Our income is very low. We earn 1,000 to 2,000 yuan (\u00a3100-\u00a3200) per year from our farmland. They say there will be a new medical insurance system later this year that will help us, but I haven't seen anything about it yet.", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China voices: the farmer"},{"date": "2009-05-20T15:00:01Z", "country": "china", "content": "President Obama's decision to name Utah's governor John Huntsman as the new US ambassador to China is a master-stroke of political strategy.Huntsman may be the most important person you've never heard of. He's a moderate Republican governor in one of the most conservative Republican states, where, until the time of his appointment, he enjoyed approval ratings above 80%. A few weeks back, Obama campaign manager David Plouffe unintentionally elevated Huntsman on the national stage by suggesting that he was one of the few Republican politicians that appeared formidable in 2012.Huntsman is young, exceptionally smart, quick on his feet, amiable and incredibly articulate; when he speaks, he exudes reasonableness, a quality almost entirely missing in the modern Republican party. He has the potential to be for the Republican party what Obama was for the Democrats \u2013 a man capable of simultaneously exciting his political base while appealing to the critical group of independent voters. To hear him speak is to know he's a guy an independent would love.In the wake of Plouffe's comments, and a few high profile trips to critical presidential states, Jon Huntsman made his way onto just about every Washington insider's list of possible 2012 Republican presidential contenders. That is, until he joined the Obama administration.Huntsman made a calculation, one that other qualified Republicans will no doubt make when contemplating a run against Obama. Anyone smart enough, capable enough to compete against Obama is going to be smart enough not to run. When Obama kicks off his re-election campaign, he'll do so with a two-million-strong member donor base already in place. He'll do so with over one million volunteers ready to be reactivated. In his first month, he'll likely raise more than $100m in donations. His re-election will dwarf his first campaign in its size and scope, just as his first campaign dwarfed its predecessor in Howard Dean. Just through sheer organization, President Obama will be one of the most difficult presidential incumbent to defeat in American history. Why fall on that sword, Huntsman must have wondered, when Bobby Jindal and Sarah Palin have already eagerly volunteered?And so, Governor Huntsman will become Ambassador Huntsman and will spend the next few years building his bipartisan foreign policy credentials for a shot at the White House in 2016. Many on the left have already expressed frustration that Obama would provide such a valuable talking point to the opposition of his successor, and have argued that Obama sold out his party to protect his own reelection. But Obama too has made a calculation, and it has nothing to do with 2012. The president recognizes that the Republican party is quickly unfurling and that those currently leading it will be incapable, over the next few years, to right such a wayward ship. There are few Republicans who can fill the void, reverse the hemorrhaging and rebuild the party. Huntsman, once counted among those few, is now off the stage, and on the other side of the world. By co-opting such a valuable politician, Obama has left the GOP flailing. Without a reasonable voice, the rattle from the skeleton of a once dominant party will echo unchecked.Will the Beijing ambassadorship help Huntsman in his presidential bid in 2016? Surely, to some extent it will. Adding foreign policy experience to a governor's resume does make for an appealing candidate. But it doesn't lessen the obstacle that Huntsman will face \u2013 a Republican primary electorate that will be as unforgiving of his Mormon faith as it will be of his time in the Obama administration. And after eight years of John Boehner and Sarah Palin, of Mitch McConnell and Rush Limbaugh, Huntsman may find that there isn't much party left to mobilise.Ultimately, Obama has understood what his predecessor Lyndon Johnson said best: \"Better inside the tent pissing out than outside the tent pissing in.\"", "tags": ["Republicans", "US elections 2012", "Obama administration", "China", "US news", "World news", "US politics", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "The Republicans' China syndrome | Dylan Loewe"},{"date": "2009-05-17T22:00:01Z", "country": "china", "content": "In the past most people were very poor. We lived in houses built up from dry grass. There was no electricity nor gas and we carried heavy wood from the mountains to cook with. You depended on what you grew, and if you met natural disasters it was very possible you were left with nothing to eat. But things have changed totally \u2013 farmers build houses up to five storeys high and I hear some use washing machines. Men work out as migrants and women stay but have a lighter burden because they have fewer children. They won't suffer from hunger anymore; they've started to worry about high blood pressure and cholesterol. In the countryside, women used to only depend on their father, brothers or husband. So when I got a job in the city I felt I had stood up and become the master of my life. And we had more information \u2013 in the countryside we could not eat properly, so how could there be newspapers?My biggest hope for myself is good health and safety and health for all my relatives. I hope that the country prospers and the people are at peace.I don't have many worries. My two sons worked out well and no longer need our support; they support me and my husband instead. My granddaughter has started work and my grandson is at university. Everything is good. Under the new healthcare plan, we only need to pay 8% if buying medicine, and after I turned 70 I got a senior citizen's pass allowing me to go to any park and take any bus for free. In fact, our pensions are more than what we spend every month so I feel no burden.", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China voices: the pensioner"},{"date": "2009-05-18T18:13:22Z", "country": "china", "content": "What is the biggest change you have seen in China? And in your own life?In the past people did not care about hygiene and would spit and throw rubbish on the streets, but now they've become more polite. The biggest change in my life was moving out of the countryside when I was six. I had to help my grandparents farm; it was very tiring. There were snakes which were frightening and I could always smell shit. We ate vegetables more than meat and sometimes I saw worms in our meals. Now we live in the city, I feel happy. I even feel the bitter melon we eat tastes sweet. I work in a wedding photo shop at weekends; I\u00a0never knew such a thing existed. What's your greatest hope for China and for yourself?I hope our country can save more trees and forests. When I was in the countryside, there were trees everywhere and I\u00a0used to talk to them when I felt unhappy \u2013 they were like friends. But now I see fewer and fewer, and birds have lost their homes. Personally, I hope to start \u00adworking when I finish school; my family's not rich so I want to earn money to help my \u00adparents. When I was a kid I wanted to be a teacher, but now I think being a model or an actor or singer would be better; life would be more interesting and I could earn more.What's your biggest fear?Losing everything I have now. Last year's earthquake in Sichuan still casts its shadow on me. I've heard there is a serious economic crisis all over the world and some boys in our school said the end of the world is coming. I feel terrified sometimes when I think about it. I'm happy with my life and it's just started, so I'm afraid of losing it.", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China voices: the schoolgirl"},{"date": "2009-05-18T13:42:53Z", "country": "china", "content": "Many would be justified in thinking that China has already \"gone global\". This phrase, though, has a special significance for China, referring to a policy started in the mid 1990s to make its firms globally competitive. A decade later, it permitted the first outward foreign direct investment by a commercial firm, TCL, who acquired Thomson of France. The next few years witnessed Lenovo's purchase of IBM's PC business and a slew of other attempts, for example, Haier's failed bid for Maytag.The trend, though, slowed with the onset of the global financial crisis. Until the full extent of the crisis was evident last autumn, Chinese firms ranging from insurance companies to manufacturers were raising funds on domestic stock exchanges, tapping the high level of domestic saving essentially trapped in China, to position themselves to purchase distressed western companies which were suffering from the credit crunch, but were otherwise good prospects. With some signs of stability in the west, Chinese firms are resuming their \"going out\" policy. Even last year, China invested $56bn in outward foreign direct investment, a 194% increase from the previous year. With inward foreign direct investment averaging some $60bn per year, China is poised to turn from a net recipient to a net investor in FDI, a marker of its maturation in many respects.Certainly, throughout the crisis and before, state-owned Chinese firms have been actively investing in energy and commodity firms around the world, from Africa to Latin America. But, the interesting shift in policy is that commercial Chinese firms are seeking to establish themselves globally, with competition being stiff in many sectors of the domestic economy. Perhaps more crucial is the learning and acquisition of technology that can occur when firms operate in global markets. As China's productivity slowed in the mid 1990s relative to the early years of reform after 1979 this was a strong motivation to get Chinese firms onto the world stage.The wider implications of this policy include a continuation of the global imbalances whereby China and other high savings countries fund western borrowing. But, instead of China's current account surplus (which has hit record highs due to the greater decline in imports relative to exports) being mostly financed by purchases of western government debt, Chinese capital outflows would go into foreign firms. And such investments could therefore potentially ease the credit crunch in the west where companies are suffering from the withdrawal of credit while the banking system stabilises \u2013 while also lessening Chinese concerns over weakening western currencies due to the potential monetisation of government borrowing leading to inflation. Commercial investment by Chinese firms would help western firms weather the global credit crunch while the western firms de-leverage. It is also a more efficient way of exporting high levels of Chinese savings than via its sovereign wealth funds since private firms are better than government entities in choosing investments and in theory, less controversial. However, herein lies the key challenge.The opacity of Chinese firms, including those which are listed on stock exchanges in New York and London, leads to questions over the extent to which they are truly private. This will be an ever-prominent issue. The backlash in Australia against Chinalco's investment, which is financed by a Chinese policy bank (China Development Bank), in Rio Tinto is but one example. There is, therefore, a strong imperative for the Chinese to improve the transparency of their firms so that their non-state firms \u2013 which are the engines of their successful transition process \u2013 can enter global markets. This means greater clarity in ultimate shareholding structures, sources of finance, corporate governance and adoption of internationally accepted accountancy standards. With the UK-China summit that concluded earlier this year, the emphasis on British firms offering expertise is well placed. There are significant opportunities for firms in Britain to provide advice to Chinese companies seeking to operate in global markets. It is a valuable avenue for promoting growth in export of services \u2013something that has been important to the British economy and thus its potential for recovery.The benefit of the \"going global\" policy will ultimately build up the Chinese economy, as their firms move up the value chain and help the country to \"catch up.\" Prospects for growth may well depend on its success.", "tags": ["China", "Investing", "Credit crunch", "Global recession", "Economics", "Business", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China goes global | Linda Yueh"},{"date": "2009-06-17T08:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Our public loo in Xinjiang is cramped at the best of times. It is kept by Ezizgul and her compliant baby, who recline together on the bed of a smelly kiosk astride the men's and women's cubicles. You pay five cents, for which you get a square of pink one-ply and the right to use one of the two channels dug out for the purpose, each facility separated unusually by a high partition, but of course no door.My Chinese work colleagues refuse to use Ezizgul's facilities. They prefer to walk several blocks to the more upmarket version at the edge of the campus. As for me, they're convenient for the office and I rather like the m\u00eal\u00e9e of shoe repairers, bag and umbrella menders and pen sellers that have sprung up around them. There's the added bonus, too, of Ezizgul.Ezizgul herself takes a bit of getting to know. She's ashamed of her job, which puts her pretty low in the Uighur Muslim pecking order. Only her very closest friends know where she works. It's probably the lowest job you can do here, next to working with pigs. But she's a feisty young woman who's determined to forge an independent life.To those who don't know her, her husband works away from home; to those closer to her, he drinks, sleeps around and beat her so badly that she has left him and moved here to the big city permanently.I frequently arrive to find plumes of smoke drifting above the divide, the smell of illicit inhaling completely eclipsed by the other pungent aromas. Often two, even three girls will be squidged, teetering in a line over the one-metre-long pit sharing a single roll-up. Shiny high heels, miniskirts clinging to their finely honed, skinny 40kg torsos, sporting tops fit for the evening disco, but highly incongruous here in Ezizgul's dingy parlour.They say it's fun and western and believe they are the new generation of liberated Uighur Muslim girls who should be able to live as they choose.Like Ezizgul, they lead a double life, but unlike her are not brave enough yet to do it in public. They take a couple of drags each of the newspaper-rolled locally grown tobacco, flick the stub into the latrine, splash their skirts with cologne, and stride out into the sunshine as if nothing had happened. Only Ezizgul knows their secret and she's not about to tell anyone.", "tags": ["China holidays", "China", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China: the secrets of Xinjiang"},{"date": "2009-08-06T09:18:50Z", "country": "china", "content": "The head of China's nuclear power programme is under investigation for \"grave violations of discipline\", Chinese state media reported, citing the Communist party's top disciplinary body.There were no details of the allegations against Kang Rixin, the president and party secretary of the China National Nuclear Corporation (CNNC), but the phrasing usually indicates a corruption case. It is not clear whether the 56-year-old has been suspended from his post.The case comes as billions are spent on expanding the nuclear industry as China tries to move away from its dependence on oil and gas. The country has six nuclear power plants, all located on the east coast, and plans to build five more this year.According to its website, state-owned CNNC is the main investor and biggest owner of nuclear plants and is heavily involved in research and development. The state news agency Xinhua said the corporation had more than 100 subsidiary companies and institutes and made a profit of 4.8bn yuan (\u00a3413m) last year.Nuclear plants account for about 2% of China's power generation and the government wants that to double by 2020.Kang was elected as a member of the central party committee's discipline inspection panel \u2013 the body now investigating him \u2013 in 2002. The state council, China's cabinet, appointed him head of CNNC the following year.He is among several high-ranking officials caught up recently in disciplinary inquiries. Xu Zongheng, the mayor of Shenzhen \u2013 one of China's wealthiest cities \u2013 was fired for corruption last week.Chen Tonghai, a former chairman of the Chinese oil giant Sinopec Corp, was sentenced to death in July, with a two-year reprieve, in what was believed to be China's biggest bribery case. He was convicted of illegally receiving 196m yuan between 1999 and June 2007.", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China investigates nuclear power chief"},{"date": "2009-08-06T09:18:50Z", "country": "china", "content": "The head of China's nuclear power programme is under investigation for \"grave violations of discipline\", Chinese state media reported, citing the Communist party's top disciplinary body.There were no details of the allegations against Kang Rixin, the president and party secretary of the China National Nuclear Corporation (CNNC), but the phrasing usually indicates a corruption case. It is not clear whether the 56-year-old has been suspended from his post.The case comes as billions are spent on expanding the nuclear industry as China tries to move away from its dependence on oil and gas. The country has six nuclear power plants, all located on the east coast, and plans to build five more this year.According to its website, state-owned CNNC is the main investor and biggest owner of nuclear plants and is heavily involved in research and development. The state news agency Xinhua said the corporation had more than 100 subsidiary companies and institutes and made a profit of 4.8bn yuan (\u00a3413m) last year.Nuclear plants account for about 2% of China's power generation and the government wants that to double by 2020.Kang was elected as a member of the central party committee's discipline inspection panel \u2013 the body now investigating him \u2013 in 2002. The state council, China's cabinet, appointed him head of CNNC the following year.He is among several high-ranking officials caught up recently in disciplinary inquiries. Xu Zongheng, the mayor of Shenzhen \u2013 one of China's wealthiest cities \u2013 was fired for corruption last week.Chen Tonghai, a former chairman of the Chinese oil giant Sinopec Corp, was sentenced to death in July, with a two-year reprieve, in what was believed to be China's biggest bribery case. He was convicted of illegally receiving 196m yuan between 1999 and June 2007.", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China investigates nuclear power chief"},{"date": "2009-08-01T17:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "The Obama administration devoted the early part of this week to high-level negotiations with China, flooding the \"strategic and economic dialogue\" with dozens of top-level officials who engaged their counterparts from the People's Republic in wide-ranging policy discussions. In fact, it was reminiscent of the full-court press the administration put on congressional Republicans in the early part of the year.The central difference, of course, is that the administration appears to be making progress with the Chinese, or at least finding a fundamental common ground, whereas the Republicans are as fractious as ever. Before conservatives go straight to the \"takes a socialist to know a socialist\" jokes, though, they should reflect on why, exactly, the Chinese are willing to work with the administration.First, the Chinese get macroeconomics. On a phone call with reporters on the first day of the conference, a senior Obama administration official mused that one of the reasons that discussions had been so productive is that the two countries followed similar approaches to the financial crisis and global recession: a fiscal stimulus, loose monetary policy and a willingness to shift broad macroeconomic goals \u2013 from borrowing to savings and investment in the US, and from exports to domestic consumer demand in China.That's why the Chinese, for instance, seem to buy the administration's promises of fiscal rectitude. Though they worry about American debt, since they own so much of it, Chinese officials accept the White House's explanation that once the economy begins to recover they will begin implementing policies to tighten inflation and lower the deficit. One Chinese official was particularly effusive in his praise of a speech delivered by Peter Orszag, the director of the White House office of management and budget, on the subject. But it's clear they understand the logic of using government demand to replace lagging private investment until the economy recovers.Meanwhile, Republicans have tried to start bank runs, offered doomsday warnings of stagflation and played Herbert Hoover by urging massive effective budget cuts that would increase the negative effects of the recession.No wonder Obama has had more luck working with the Chinese than with the Republicans. It's not about socialism \u2013 in fact, the Obama administration continues to urge the Chinese to liberalise their financial system. It's just accepting the basic principles of macroeconomics.Second, the Chinese get science. The two countries signed a memorandum of understanding at the dialogue, laying out a framework to pursue emissions reductions, invest in low-carbon energy and protect the environment. This is further than the administration has gotten with many Republicans who refuse to believe that global climate change is even real, much less worth doing something about.Which is not to say that this memorandum will result in huge changes. Despite the recognition of the problems of climate change, the Chinese are still concerned about the economic costs of reducing emissions. But they're willing to consider the long-term balance costs and benefits, which is a real start toward concrete decisions to go green. Finally, the Chinese get non-zero sum competition. Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, raised a few eyebrows the other day when he argued that the US should maintain its fleet of expensive F-22 fighter planes in order to fight India, a country the US surely counts as a friend. But it was even worse when he corrected his statement, saying he meant to say the fighters were needed in case of conflict with China. But China, of course, is a country the US should engage, not confront.A few days later, Dai Bingguo, one of the two leaders of the Chinese delegation to Washington, told an audience of business and political leaders: \"Don't lose any sleep over China!\" He explained that China did not seek arms races or hegemony, and even historically focused on its own internal development.While it may be wise for the US to be prudent in a relationship with a country whose interests don't always match our own, it's also clear that cooperation is a better path than confrontation. Hence President Obama's remarks on Monday that he also envisions a \"a future where China is a strong, prosperous and successful member of the community of nations. A future when our nations are partners out of necessity, but also out of opportunity.\"Republicans have thus far not demonstrated that they understand the value of engaging countries that can be perceived as threats or alien to US culture, whether with relatively uncontroversial example of China or the hot-button issues of Cuba and Iran.Of course, none of these commonalities means that real progress will be made in the US-China relationship, just as Republican obstruction doesn't mean that there will be no progress on the Obama administration's domestic agenda. But it always helps to start with an interlocutor who you can agree with on basic principles. China may be far away from Obama both geographically and politically, but the Republicans might as well be living on the moon.", "tags": ["China", "US foreign policy", "US Congress", "Republicans", "Obama administration", "Environment", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "US economy", "US news", "World news", "US politics", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Red China versus red states | Tim Fernholz"},{"date": "2009-08-06T09:18:50Z", "country": "china", "content": "The head of China's nuclear power programme is under investigation for \"grave violations of discipline\", Chinese state media reported, citing the Communist party's top disciplinary body.There were no details of the allegations against Kang Rixin, the president and party secretary of the China National Nuclear Corporation (CNNC), but the phrasing usually indicates a corruption case. It is not clear whether the 56-year-old has been suspended from his post.The case comes as billions are spent on expanding the nuclear industry as China tries to move away from its dependence on oil and gas. The country has six nuclear power plants, all located on the east coast, and plans to build five more this year.According to its website, state-owned CNNC is the main investor and biggest owner of nuclear plants and is heavily involved in research and development. The state news agency Xinhua said the corporation had more than 100 subsidiary companies and institutes and made a profit of 4.8bn yuan (\u00a3413m) last year.Nuclear plants account for about 2% of China's power generation and the government wants that to double by 2020.Kang was elected as a member of the central party committee's discipline inspection panel \u2013 the body now investigating him \u2013 in 2002. The state council, China's cabinet, appointed him head of CNNC the following year.He is among several high-ranking officials caught up recently in disciplinary inquiries. Xu Zongheng, the mayor of Shenzhen \u2013 one of China's wealthiest cities \u2013 was fired for corruption last week.Chen Tonghai, a former chairman of the Chinese oil giant Sinopec Corp, was sentenced to death in July, with a two-year reprieve, in what was believed to be China's biggest bribery case. He was convicted of illegally receiving 196m yuan between 1999 and June 2007.", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China investigates nuclear power chief"},{"date": "2009-08-01T17:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "The Obama administration devoted the early part of this week to high-level negotiations with China, flooding the \"strategic and economic dialogue\" with dozens of top-level officials who engaged their counterparts from the People's Republic in wide-ranging policy discussions. In fact, it was reminiscent of the full-court press the administration put on congressional Republicans in the early part of the year.The central difference, of course, is that the administration appears to be making progress with the Chinese, or at least finding a fundamental common ground, whereas the Republicans are as fractious as ever. Before conservatives go straight to the \"takes a socialist to know a socialist\" jokes, though, they should reflect on why, exactly, the Chinese are willing to work with the administration.First, the Chinese get macroeconomics. On a phone call with reporters on the first day of the conference, a senior Obama administration official mused that one of the reasons that discussions had been so productive is that the two countries followed similar approaches to the financial crisis and global recession: a fiscal stimulus, loose monetary policy and a willingness to shift broad macroeconomic goals \u2013 from borrowing to savings and investment in the US, and from exports to domestic consumer demand in China.That's why the Chinese, for instance, seem to buy the administration's promises of fiscal rectitude. Though they worry about American debt, since they own so much of it, Chinese officials accept the White House's explanation that once the economy begins to recover they will begin implementing policies to tighten inflation and lower the deficit. One Chinese official was particularly effusive in his praise of a speech delivered by Peter Orszag, the director of the White House office of management and budget, on the subject. But it's clear they understand the logic of using government demand to replace lagging private investment until the economy recovers.Meanwhile, Republicans have tried to start bank runs, offered doomsday warnings of stagflation and played Herbert Hoover by urging massive effective budget cuts that would increase the negative effects of the recession.No wonder Obama has had more luck working with the Chinese than with the Republicans. It's not about socialism \u2013 in fact, the Obama administration continues to urge the Chinese to liberalise their financial system. It's just accepting the basic principles of macroeconomics.Second, the Chinese get science. The two countries signed a memorandum of understanding at the dialogue, laying out a framework to pursue emissions reductions, invest in low-carbon energy and protect the environment. This is further than the administration has gotten with many Republicans who refuse to believe that global climate change is even real, much less worth doing something about.Which is not to say that this memorandum will result in huge changes. Despite the recognition of the problems of climate change, the Chinese are still concerned about the economic costs of reducing emissions. But they're willing to consider the long-term balance costs and benefits, which is a real start toward concrete decisions to go green. Finally, the Chinese get non-zero sum competition. Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, raised a few eyebrows the other day when he argued that the US should maintain its fleet of expensive F-22 fighter planes in order to fight India, a country the US surely counts as a friend. But it was even worse when he corrected his statement, saying he meant to say the fighters were needed in case of conflict with China. But China, of course, is a country the US should engage, not confront.A few days later, Dai Bingguo, one of the two leaders of the Chinese delegation to Washington, told an audience of business and political leaders: \"Don't lose any sleep over China!\" He explained that China did not seek arms races or hegemony, and even historically focused on its own internal development.While it may be wise for the US to be prudent in a relationship with a country whose interests don't always match our own, it's also clear that cooperation is a better path than confrontation. Hence President Obama's remarks on Monday that he also envisions a \"a future where China is a strong, prosperous and successful member of the community of nations. A future when our nations are partners out of necessity, but also out of opportunity.\"Republicans have thus far not demonstrated that they understand the value of engaging countries that can be perceived as threats or alien to US culture, whether with relatively uncontroversial example of China or the hot-button issues of Cuba and Iran.Of course, none of these commonalities means that real progress will be made in the US-China relationship, just as Republican obstruction doesn't mean that there will be no progress on the Obama administration's domestic agenda. But it always helps to start with an interlocutor who you can agree with on basic principles. China may be far away from Obama both geographically and politically, but the Republicans might as well be living on the moon.", "tags": ["China", "US foreign policy", "US Congress", "Republicans", "Obama administration", "Environment", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "US economy", "US news", "World news", "US politics", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Red China versus red states | Tim Fernholz"},{"date": "2009-07-28T15:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Last weekend, it was reported that India had denied a visa to Rebiya Kadeer, the ostensible leader in exile of China's minority Uighur community, who China accuses of masterminding recent unrest in its western province of Xinjiang. Many Indian strategists applauded the decision \u2013 only for the Uighur Human Rights Project to later deny the reports. New Delhi, the strategists argued, had little to gain from riling Beijing and even less to gain from adding to Kadeer's travel itinerary, a global junket aimed at building sympathy for the plight of the Uighurs. The Turkic, predominantly Muslim Uighurs made headlines this summer after riots and state repression shook Xinjiang. India's interests, some say, would be best served by staying out of the mess altogether.After all, a visit from Kadeer would, it seems, only cause grief for her would-be hosts. Her impending attendance at the Melbourne International Film Festival in Australia prompted Chinese directors to withdraw their films and Chinese hackers to attack the festival's website. In a furious diplomatic spat, Beijing slammed Japan's decision to grant her a visa. And Chinese officials threatened Ankara over the Turkish prime minister's promise to allow Kadeer into Turkey.This certainly isn't the first (nor will it be the last) time a state has put pressure on other countries to curtail the movement of controversial individuals. But what we should find distressing is the extent to which countries have allowed their own affairs to be dictated by China's propaganda campaign. Kadeer is supported by American money, but she is not a \"terrorist\" (as China insists on dubbing her and her allies), nor is she capable of orchestrating the unrest in Xinjiang (as China claims she did). Instead, China has turned this woman \u2013 who I had the pleasure of meeting briefly when she visited openDemocracy's offices a few years ago \u2013 into a straw-man, directing domestic outrage against her while distracting attention from the real anger, real frustration and real grievances of the Uighurs.Indians should feel disappointed by the idea that their country would placate China's officials and legions of \"netizens\". In so many ways, India is strikingly different from its fellow Asian giant. India is a democracy, bubbling with debate and dissent. It is a truly plural country, uniting dozens of languages, thousands of dialects, numerous religions and ethnicities. It is no stranger to ethnic violence and secessionism, but it has managed to accommodate most of these outbreaks through the democratic process and under the wide roof of Indian identity. No Indian leader could now speak as Chinese president Hu Jintao did yesterday when, in archaic terms, he called for the \"revival of the great Chinese race\".But like China, India has settled upon a more functional vision of foreign policy in the 21st century. In the wake of the cold war and the stumbles of American power, both New Delhi and Beijing believe in building a \"multipolar world order\", in which many more countries can be stakeholders in an international system defined by negotiation and respect of national sovereignty. Such a system may be more global and representative, but it provides little scope for any kind of judgment and policy beyond the strategic.Fifty years ago, India welcomed the Dalai Lama and the Tibetan leadership as they fled the guns and tanks of the Chinese army. Up to the 1990s, India supported Aung San Suu Kyi's democratic movement in Chinese-backed Burma, when western governments had little interest in her struggle (let's not forget that the west also had \u2013 and continues to have \u2013 a great predilection for expedient, morally blind foreign policy). Indian policymakers remember that these decisions had real strategic consequences, including a disastrous war with China in 1962 and the loss of influence on its eastern border. For India to deny Kadeer a visa would stem from a more cautious political calculus. But would also suggests that India accepts the rules of Chinese geopolitics: power \u2013 never ideals \u2013 is the ultimate arbiter of action and compromise.", "tags": ["India", "China", "Rebiya Kadeer", "Human rights", "Race issues", "World news", "Law", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "India, don't kowtow to China | Kanishk Tharoor"},{"date": "2009-08-06T09:18:50Z", "country": "china", "content": "The head of China's nuclear power programme is under investigation for \"grave violations of discipline\", Chinese state media reported, citing the Communist party's top disciplinary body.There were no details of the allegations against Kang Rixin, the president and party secretary of the China National Nuclear Corporation (CNNC), but the phrasing usually indicates a corruption case. It is not clear whether the 56-year-old has been suspended from his post.The case comes as billions are spent on expanding the nuclear industry as China tries to move away from its dependence on oil and gas. The country has six nuclear power plants, all located on the east coast, and plans to build five more this year.According to its website, state-owned CNNC is the main investor and biggest owner of nuclear plants and is heavily involved in research and development. The state news agency Xinhua said the corporation had more than 100 subsidiary companies and institutes and made a profit of 4.8bn yuan (\u00a3413m) last year.Nuclear plants account for about 2% of China's power generation and the government wants that to double by 2020.Kang was elected as a member of the central party committee's discipline inspection panel \u2013 the body now investigating him \u2013 in 2002. The state council, China's cabinet, appointed him head of CNNC the following year.He is among several high-ranking officials caught up recently in disciplinary inquiries. Xu Zongheng, the mayor of Shenzhen \u2013 one of China's wealthiest cities \u2013 was fired for corruption last week.Chen Tonghai, a former chairman of the Chinese oil giant Sinopec Corp, was sentenced to death in July, with a two-year reprieve, in what was believed to be China's biggest bribery case. He was convicted of illegally receiving 196m yuan between 1999 and June 2007.", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China investigates nuclear power chief"},{"date": "2009-08-01T17:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "The Obama administration devoted the early part of this week to high-level negotiations with China, flooding the \"strategic and economic dialogue\" with dozens of top-level officials who engaged their counterparts from the People's Republic in wide-ranging policy discussions. In fact, it was reminiscent of the full-court press the administration put on congressional Republicans in the early part of the year.The central difference, of course, is that the administration appears to be making progress with the Chinese, or at least finding a fundamental common ground, whereas the Republicans are as fractious as ever. Before conservatives go straight to the \"takes a socialist to know a socialist\" jokes, though, they should reflect on why, exactly, the Chinese are willing to work with the administration.First, the Chinese get macroeconomics. On a phone call with reporters on the first day of the conference, a senior Obama administration official mused that one of the reasons that discussions had been so productive is that the two countries followed similar approaches to the financial crisis and global recession: a fiscal stimulus, loose monetary policy and a willingness to shift broad macroeconomic goals \u2013 from borrowing to savings and investment in the US, and from exports to domestic consumer demand in China.That's why the Chinese, for instance, seem to buy the administration's promises of fiscal rectitude. Though they worry about American debt, since they own so much of it, Chinese officials accept the White House's explanation that once the economy begins to recover they will begin implementing policies to tighten inflation and lower the deficit. One Chinese official was particularly effusive in his praise of a speech delivered by Peter Orszag, the director of the White House office of management and budget, on the subject. But it's clear they understand the logic of using government demand to replace lagging private investment until the economy recovers.Meanwhile, Republicans have tried to start bank runs, offered doomsday warnings of stagflation and played Herbert Hoover by urging massive effective budget cuts that would increase the negative effects of the recession.No wonder Obama has had more luck working with the Chinese than with the Republicans. It's not about socialism \u2013 in fact, the Obama administration continues to urge the Chinese to liberalise their financial system. It's just accepting the basic principles of macroeconomics.Second, the Chinese get science. The two countries signed a memorandum of understanding at the dialogue, laying out a framework to pursue emissions reductions, invest in low-carbon energy and protect the environment. This is further than the administration has gotten with many Republicans who refuse to believe that global climate change is even real, much less worth doing something about.Which is not to say that this memorandum will result in huge changes. Despite the recognition of the problems of climate change, the Chinese are still concerned about the economic costs of reducing emissions. But they're willing to consider the long-term balance costs and benefits, which is a real start toward concrete decisions to go green. Finally, the Chinese get non-zero sum competition. Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, raised a few eyebrows the other day when he argued that the US should maintain its fleet of expensive F-22 fighter planes in order to fight India, a country the US surely counts as a friend. But it was even worse when he corrected his statement, saying he meant to say the fighters were needed in case of conflict with China. But China, of course, is a country the US should engage, not confront.A few days later, Dai Bingguo, one of the two leaders of the Chinese delegation to Washington, told an audience of business and political leaders: \"Don't lose any sleep over China!\" He explained that China did not seek arms races or hegemony, and even historically focused on its own internal development.While it may be wise for the US to be prudent in a relationship with a country whose interests don't always match our own, it's also clear that cooperation is a better path than confrontation. Hence President Obama's remarks on Monday that he also envisions a \"a future where China is a strong, prosperous and successful member of the community of nations. A future when our nations are partners out of necessity, but also out of opportunity.\"Republicans have thus far not demonstrated that they understand the value of engaging countries that can be perceived as threats or alien to US culture, whether with relatively uncontroversial example of China or the hot-button issues of Cuba and Iran.Of course, none of these commonalities means that real progress will be made in the US-China relationship, just as Republican obstruction doesn't mean that there will be no progress on the Obama administration's domestic agenda. But it always helps to start with an interlocutor who you can agree with on basic principles. China may be far away from Obama both geographically and politically, but the Republicans might as well be living on the moon.", "tags": ["China", "US foreign policy", "US Congress", "Republicans", "Obama administration", "Environment", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "US economy", "US news", "World news", "US politics", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Red China versus red states | Tim Fernholz"},{"date": "2009-07-28T15:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Last weekend, it was reported that India had denied a visa to Rebiya Kadeer, the ostensible leader in exile of China's minority Uighur community, who China accuses of masterminding recent unrest in its western province of Xinjiang. Many Indian strategists applauded the decision \u2013 only for the Uighur Human Rights Project to later deny the reports. New Delhi, the strategists argued, had little to gain from riling Beijing and even less to gain from adding to Kadeer's travel itinerary, a global junket aimed at building sympathy for the plight of the Uighurs. The Turkic, predominantly Muslim Uighurs made headlines this summer after riots and state repression shook Xinjiang. India's interests, some say, would be best served by staying out of the mess altogether.After all, a visit from Kadeer would, it seems, only cause grief for her would-be hosts. Her impending attendance at the Melbourne International Film Festival in Australia prompted Chinese directors to withdraw their films and Chinese hackers to attack the festival's website. In a furious diplomatic spat, Beijing slammed Japan's decision to grant her a visa. And Chinese officials threatened Ankara over the Turkish prime minister's promise to allow Kadeer into Turkey.This certainly isn't the first (nor will it be the last) time a state has put pressure on other countries to curtail the movement of controversial individuals. But what we should find distressing is the extent to which countries have allowed their own affairs to be dictated by China's propaganda campaign. Kadeer is supported by American money, but she is not a \"terrorist\" (as China insists on dubbing her and her allies), nor is she capable of orchestrating the unrest in Xinjiang (as China claims she did). Instead, China has turned this woman \u2013 who I had the pleasure of meeting briefly when she visited openDemocracy's offices a few years ago \u2013 into a straw-man, directing domestic outrage against her while distracting attention from the real anger, real frustration and real grievances of the Uighurs.Indians should feel disappointed by the idea that their country would placate China's officials and legions of \"netizens\". In so many ways, India is strikingly different from its fellow Asian giant. India is a democracy, bubbling with debate and dissent. It is a truly plural country, uniting dozens of languages, thousands of dialects, numerous religions and ethnicities. It is no stranger to ethnic violence and secessionism, but it has managed to accommodate most of these outbreaks through the democratic process and under the wide roof of Indian identity. No Indian leader could now speak as Chinese president Hu Jintao did yesterday when, in archaic terms, he called for the \"revival of the great Chinese race\".But like China, India has settled upon a more functional vision of foreign policy in the 21st century. In the wake of the cold war and the stumbles of American power, both New Delhi and Beijing believe in building a \"multipolar world order\", in which many more countries can be stakeholders in an international system defined by negotiation and respect of national sovereignty. Such a system may be more global and representative, but it provides little scope for any kind of judgment and policy beyond the strategic.Fifty years ago, India welcomed the Dalai Lama and the Tibetan leadership as they fled the guns and tanks of the Chinese army. Up to the 1990s, India supported Aung San Suu Kyi's democratic movement in Chinese-backed Burma, when western governments had little interest in her struggle (let's not forget that the west also had \u2013 and continues to have \u2013 a great predilection for expedient, morally blind foreign policy). Indian policymakers remember that these decisions had real strategic consequences, including a disastrous war with China in 1962 and the loss of influence on its eastern border. For India to deny Kadeer a visa would stem from a more cautious political calculus. But would also suggests that India accepts the rules of Chinese geopolitics: power \u2013 never ideals \u2013 is the ultimate arbiter of action and compromise.", "tags": ["India", "China", "Rebiya Kadeer", "Human rights", "Race issues", "World news", "Law", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "India, don't kowtow to China | Kanishk Tharoor"},{"date": "2009-09-30T15:56:37Z", "country": "china", "content": "Monkey opened the Daily Telegraph today to see that its regular rota of advertisers \u2013 Sainsbury's, Selfridges, Specsavers \u2013 had been joined by new and unlikely company: the People's Republic of China. The reds took out a 16-page supplement in the Telegraph today, titled China in Focus, with a number of big-name bylines, including Gordon Brown, Peter Mandelson and China's premier, Wen Jiabao. The supplement was sponsored by the Chinese Embassy, in association with the Daily Telegraph. But it's business as usual on the Telegraph website, with the supplement sitting next to a news story that the public has been barred from the Beijing's celebratory parade. But we were rather taken by the top story on the Telegraph's China site yesterday afternoon: Dwarves found 'theme park' commune to escape bullying. Happy 60th birthday, PRC!", "tags": ["Daily Telegraph", "China", "Newspapers", "Advertising", "Media", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Telegraph in two minds over China | Media Monkey"},{"date": "2009-08-06T09:18:50Z", "country": "china", "content": "The head of China's nuclear power programme is under investigation for \"grave violations of discipline\", Chinese state media reported, citing the Communist party's top disciplinary body.There were no details of the allegations against Kang Rixin, the president and party secretary of the China National Nuclear Corporation (CNNC), but the phrasing usually indicates a corruption case. It is not clear whether the 56-year-old has been suspended from his post.The case comes as billions are spent on expanding the nuclear industry as China tries to move away from its dependence on oil and gas. The country has six nuclear power plants, all located on the east coast, and plans to build five more this year.According to its website, state-owned CNNC is the main investor and biggest owner of nuclear plants and is heavily involved in research and development. The state news agency Xinhua said the corporation had more than 100 subsidiary companies and institutes and made a profit of 4.8bn yuan (\u00a3413m) last year.Nuclear plants account for about 2% of China's power generation and the government wants that to double by 2020.Kang was elected as a member of the central party committee's discipline inspection panel \u2013 the body now investigating him \u2013 in 2002. The state council, China's cabinet, appointed him head of CNNC the following year.He is among several high-ranking officials caught up recently in disciplinary inquiries. Xu Zongheng, the mayor of Shenzhen \u2013 one of China's wealthiest cities \u2013 was fired for corruption last week.Chen Tonghai, a former chairman of the Chinese oil giant Sinopec Corp, was sentenced to death in July, with a two-year reprieve, in what was believed to be China's biggest bribery case. He was convicted of illegally receiving 196m yuan between 1999 and June 2007.", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China investigates nuclear power chief"},{"date": "2009-08-01T17:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "The Obama administration devoted the early part of this week to high-level negotiations with China, flooding the \"strategic and economic dialogue\" with dozens of top-level officials who engaged their counterparts from the People's Republic in wide-ranging policy discussions. In fact, it was reminiscent of the full-court press the administration put on congressional Republicans in the early part of the year.The central difference, of course, is that the administration appears to be making progress with the Chinese, or at least finding a fundamental common ground, whereas the Republicans are as fractious as ever. Before conservatives go straight to the \"takes a socialist to know a socialist\" jokes, though, they should reflect on why, exactly, the Chinese are willing to work with the administration.First, the Chinese get macroeconomics. On a phone call with reporters on the first day of the conference, a senior Obama administration official mused that one of the reasons that discussions had been so productive is that the two countries followed similar approaches to the financial crisis and global recession: a fiscal stimulus, loose monetary policy and a willingness to shift broad macroeconomic goals \u2013 from borrowing to savings and investment in the US, and from exports to domestic consumer demand in China.That's why the Chinese, for instance, seem to buy the administration's promises of fiscal rectitude. Though they worry about American debt, since they own so much of it, Chinese officials accept the White House's explanation that once the economy begins to recover they will begin implementing policies to tighten inflation and lower the deficit. One Chinese official was particularly effusive in his praise of a speech delivered by Peter Orszag, the director of the White House office of management and budget, on the subject. But it's clear they understand the logic of using government demand to replace lagging private investment until the economy recovers.Meanwhile, Republicans have tried to start bank runs, offered doomsday warnings of stagflation and played Herbert Hoover by urging massive effective budget cuts that would increase the negative effects of the recession.No wonder Obama has had more luck working with the Chinese than with the Republicans. It's not about socialism \u2013 in fact, the Obama administration continues to urge the Chinese to liberalise their financial system. It's just accepting the basic principles of macroeconomics.Second, the Chinese get science. The two countries signed a memorandum of understanding at the dialogue, laying out a framework to pursue emissions reductions, invest in low-carbon energy and protect the environment. This is further than the administration has gotten with many Republicans who refuse to believe that global climate change is even real, much less worth doing something about.Which is not to say that this memorandum will result in huge changes. Despite the recognition of the problems of climate change, the Chinese are still concerned about the economic costs of reducing emissions. But they're willing to consider the long-term balance costs and benefits, which is a real start toward concrete decisions to go green. Finally, the Chinese get non-zero sum competition. Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, raised a few eyebrows the other day when he argued that the US should maintain its fleet of expensive F-22 fighter planes in order to fight India, a country the US surely counts as a friend. But it was even worse when he corrected his statement, saying he meant to say the fighters were needed in case of conflict with China. But China, of course, is a country the US should engage, not confront.A few days later, Dai Bingguo, one of the two leaders of the Chinese delegation to Washington, told an audience of business and political leaders: \"Don't lose any sleep over China!\" He explained that China did not seek arms races or hegemony, and even historically focused on its own internal development.While it may be wise for the US to be prudent in a relationship with a country whose interests don't always match our own, it's also clear that cooperation is a better path than confrontation. Hence President Obama's remarks on Monday that he also envisions a \"a future where China is a strong, prosperous and successful member of the community of nations. A future when our nations are partners out of necessity, but also out of opportunity.\"Republicans have thus far not demonstrated that they understand the value of engaging countries that can be perceived as threats or alien to US culture, whether with relatively uncontroversial example of China or the hot-button issues of Cuba and Iran.Of course, none of these commonalities means that real progress will be made in the US-China relationship, just as Republican obstruction doesn't mean that there will be no progress on the Obama administration's domestic agenda. But it always helps to start with an interlocutor who you can agree with on basic principles. China may be far away from Obama both geographically and politically, but the Republicans might as well be living on the moon.", "tags": ["China", "US foreign policy", "US Congress", "Republicans", "Obama administration", "Environment", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "US economy", "US news", "World news", "US politics", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Red China versus red states | Tim Fernholz"},{"date": "2009-07-28T15:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Last weekend, it was reported that India had denied a visa to Rebiya Kadeer, the ostensible leader in exile of China's minority Uighur community, who China accuses of masterminding recent unrest in its western province of Xinjiang. Many Indian strategists applauded the decision \u2013 only for the Uighur Human Rights Project to later deny the reports. New Delhi, the strategists argued, had little to gain from riling Beijing and even less to gain from adding to Kadeer's travel itinerary, a global junket aimed at building sympathy for the plight of the Uighurs. The Turkic, predominantly Muslim Uighurs made headlines this summer after riots and state repression shook Xinjiang. India's interests, some say, would be best served by staying out of the mess altogether.After all, a visit from Kadeer would, it seems, only cause grief for her would-be hosts. Her impending attendance at the Melbourne International Film Festival in Australia prompted Chinese directors to withdraw their films and Chinese hackers to attack the festival's website. In a furious diplomatic spat, Beijing slammed Japan's decision to grant her a visa. And Chinese officials threatened Ankara over the Turkish prime minister's promise to allow Kadeer into Turkey.This certainly isn't the first (nor will it be the last) time a state has put pressure on other countries to curtail the movement of controversial individuals. But what we should find distressing is the extent to which countries have allowed their own affairs to be dictated by China's propaganda campaign. Kadeer is supported by American money, but she is not a \"terrorist\" (as China insists on dubbing her and her allies), nor is she capable of orchestrating the unrest in Xinjiang (as China claims she did). Instead, China has turned this woman \u2013 who I had the pleasure of meeting briefly when she visited openDemocracy's offices a few years ago \u2013 into a straw-man, directing domestic outrage against her while distracting attention from the real anger, real frustration and real grievances of the Uighurs.Indians should feel disappointed by the idea that their country would placate China's officials and legions of \"netizens\". In so many ways, India is strikingly different from its fellow Asian giant. India is a democracy, bubbling with debate and dissent. It is a truly plural country, uniting dozens of languages, thousands of dialects, numerous religions and ethnicities. It is no stranger to ethnic violence and secessionism, but it has managed to accommodate most of these outbreaks through the democratic process and under the wide roof of Indian identity. No Indian leader could now speak as Chinese president Hu Jintao did yesterday when, in archaic terms, he called for the \"revival of the great Chinese race\".But like China, India has settled upon a more functional vision of foreign policy in the 21st century. In the wake of the cold war and the stumbles of American power, both New Delhi and Beijing believe in building a \"multipolar world order\", in which many more countries can be stakeholders in an international system defined by negotiation and respect of national sovereignty. Such a system may be more global and representative, but it provides little scope for any kind of judgment and policy beyond the strategic.Fifty years ago, India welcomed the Dalai Lama and the Tibetan leadership as they fled the guns and tanks of the Chinese army. Up to the 1990s, India supported Aung San Suu Kyi's democratic movement in Chinese-backed Burma, when western governments had little interest in her struggle (let's not forget that the west also had \u2013 and continues to have \u2013 a great predilection for expedient, morally blind foreign policy). Indian policymakers remember that these decisions had real strategic consequences, including a disastrous war with China in 1962 and the loss of influence on its eastern border. For India to deny Kadeer a visa would stem from a more cautious political calculus. But would also suggests that India accepts the rules of Chinese geopolitics: power \u2013 never ideals \u2013 is the ultimate arbiter of action and compromise.", "tags": ["India", "China", "Rebiya Kadeer", "Human rights", "Race issues", "World news", "Law", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "India, don't kowtow to China | Kanishk Tharoor"},{"date": "2009-09-30T15:56:37Z", "country": "china", "content": "Monkey opened the Daily Telegraph today to see that its regular rota of advertisers \u2013 Sainsbury's, Selfridges, Specsavers \u2013 had been joined by new and unlikely company: the People's Republic of China. The reds took out a 16-page supplement in the Telegraph today, titled China in Focus, with a number of big-name bylines, including Gordon Brown, Peter Mandelson and China's premier, Wen Jiabao. The supplement was sponsored by the Chinese Embassy, in association with the Daily Telegraph. But it's business as usual on the Telegraph website, with the supplement sitting next to a news story that the public has been barred from the Beijing's celebratory parade. But we were rather taken by the top story on the Telegraph's China site yesterday afternoon: Dwarves found 'theme park' commune to escape bullying. Happy 60th birthday, PRC!", "tags": ["Daily Telegraph", "China", "Newspapers", "Advertising", "Media", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Telegraph in two minds over China | Media Monkey"},{"date": "2009-07-12T15:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "The new commander of coalition forces in Afghanistan, General Stanley McChrystal, announced: \"The Afghan people are at the centre of our mission. In reality, they are the mission.\" The four-star general was wearing military fatigues, but his wording sounded civilian. Indeed, when President Obama explained in March how the United States plans \"to disrupt, dismantle and defeat al-Qaida in Pakistan and Afghanistan,\" he ordered a \"civilian surge\" in Afghanistan. But make no mistake: The civilian part of the coalition operations here is subservient to the military arm, and the two are known together as an \"integrated approach\".The problem with this approach is that when military structures perform or oversee civilian tasks, the nonmilitary humanitarian work often gets politicised and militarised, and the difference between the two is blurred. If executed as planned, the \"civilian surge\" may worsen the situation here.Integrating more civilians into military structures means further militarising what has traditionally been humanitarian work. This is not in the interest of the Afghan people, who expect security from coalition forces and assistance from civilian aid agencies.The main destination of this \"surge\" will be the US-led provincial reconstruction teams (PRTs), whose performance in Afghanistan has been criticised by humanitarian groups on the ground: One aid worker from a European nongovernmental organisation said they behave like \"Humvees in a china shop\".While working in the eastern city of Jalalabad last year, I heard many tales that amounted to such porcelain-breaking. The main victims were the communities the PRTs were seeking to help. An Afghan working for an Asian NGO recounted how 15 Humvees entered their compound unannounced and the uniformed \"farenjee\" (Afghan for \"foreigners\") began conducting quick medical examinations \u2013 45 seconds per patient \u2013 while photographing the process to document their outreach. (After complaints from the NGO, the Americans said they spent 105 seconds per patient, not 45.)There was the time that armed, uniformed Americans arrived at an orphanage, I was told, to distribute pencils and notebooks. In the process, the Americans terrified the female employees of the orphanage and the young children. An Afghan doctor from an American NGO told me his concerns about the welfare of communities where the PRTs distribute medicines from their Humvees: The labels are in English or Urdu, he noted, not Pashto, the language spoken in the region.I visited Jalalabad again in May. The aid agency I work for, the International Rescue Committee, continues to implement programmes there, but even now the ever-deteriorating security environment means we mostly have to rely on our trusted staff of Afghans. I did get to visit the American PRT in Jalalabad, where I was received by a senior civil affairs officer. He told me and an Afghan colleague of mine that Americans were no longer going out to villages uninvited.I suggested that the danger still existed for locals contacted by the PRTs \u2013 these Afghans could be branded collaborators. But the officer saw no problem. \"Our presence forces them to make a choice: Either they support the government or they support the Taliban,\" he said. And he added: \"It takes a little bit of courage if you want to be free; freedom does not come free.\"My Afghan colleague later told me of recent incidents in which a mullah was killed in Chaparhar, apparently for working with government and coalition forces, and another mullah was decapitated in Khogyani for allowing his two sons to serve in the Afghan national army, which was trained by the US-led coalition.Contact with the foreign troops, it seems, does not come free, either.The PRT in Jalalabad has not had significant run-ins with nongovernmental organisations over the past year, but problems persist. Staff changes are frequent, and the handovers are poor, so Afghans watch the civilians who are arriving continually try to reinvent the wheel. I am confident that the civil affairs officer I spoke with and his colleagues from the national guard have the best of intentions, but theirs is a mission impossible. The PRTs' directive to \"win the hearts and minds\" \u2013 known as WHAM \u2013 and to implement \"quick-impact projects\" is better suited for charity handouts than a strategy for reconstruction and development.Simply put, PRTs are a military tool attempting to perform civilian tasks. Inherently, they undermine the necessary distinction between the development objectives of humanitarian aid workers and the political-military objectives of coalition forces.Relief and development work is more effectively done by experienced and independent aid agencies, working in partnership with the communities they serve. Staff members at the main NGOs in Afghanistan are mostly national (99% of IRC staff is Afghan) and know the local languages and culture. As such, they do not require expensive protection. They are also experienced in aid delivery. Most NGOs have been working with Afghans for many years and are committed to long-term stabilisation and recovery.Civilians in Afghanistan are caught between the Taliban and coalition forces. Humanitarian groups cannot be \"force multipliers\" or \"post-battle cleanup\" teams. They are the only ones with enough impartiality to provide assistance to the Afghan people. And for the aid community there is no question: The Afghan people are definitely \"our mission\".This article originally appeared in the Washington Post.", "tags": ["Afghanistan", "US foreign policy", "Obama administration", "Global development", "Taliban", "World news", "Middle East and North Africa", "US news", "US politics"], "title": "Humvees in a china shop | Anna Husarska"},{"date": "2009-11-23T09:08:27Z", "country": "china", "content": "A Chinese court has sentenced a veteran dissident convicted of spying to three years in prison.Huang Qi was convicted of illegally possessing state secrets by the Wuhou district court in the western city of Chengdu, his wife Zeng Li said by telephone.Zeng said no details were given about the charge, an ill-defined accusation often used by Communist leaders to clamp down on dissent and imprison activists.Huang was detained on 10 June 2008 after posting articles on his website criticising the government's response to the May 2008 earthquake in Sichuan province that killed about 90,000 people. Huang also spoke to foreign media about parents' criticism that their children had been crushed in badly built schools. The government has tried to suppress such complaints.Zeng said Huang was taken directly from the court without being allowed to speak. She believed he would appeal the sentence.Calls to the court and Huang's lawyer, Mo Shaoping, rang unanswered.Huang previously served a five-year prison sentence on subversion charges linked to politically sensitive articles posted on his website.Since his release in 2005 he had supported a wide range of causes, including families of those killed in the 1989 military crackdown on pro-democracy protests in Beijing and farmers involved in land disputes with authorities.", "tags": ["China", "Protest", "Human rights", "China earthquake", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Law", "Asia Pacific", "Earthquakes"], "title": "China jails earthquake activist"},{"date": "2009-11-23T09:08:27Z", "country": "china", "content": "A Chinese court has sentenced a veteran dissident convicted of spying to three years in prison.Huang Qi was convicted of illegally possessing state secrets by the Wuhou district court in the western city of Chengdu, his wife Zeng Li said by telephone.Zeng said no details were given about the charge, an ill-defined accusation often used by Communist leaders to clamp down on dissent and imprison activists.Huang was detained on 10 June 2008 after posting articles on his website criticising the government's response to the May 2008 earthquake in Sichuan province that killed about 90,000 people. Huang also spoke to foreign media about parents' criticism that their children had been crushed in badly built schools. The government has tried to suppress such complaints.Zeng said Huang was taken directly from the court without being allowed to speak. She believed he would appeal the sentence.Calls to the court and Huang's lawyer, Mo Shaoping, rang unanswered.Huang previously served a five-year prison sentence on subversion charges linked to politically sensitive articles posted on his website.Since his release in 2005 he had supported a wide range of causes, including families of those killed in the 1989 military crackdown on pro-democracy protests in Beijing and farmers involved in land disputes with authorities.", "tags": ["China", "Protest", "Human rights", "China earthquake", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Law", "Asia Pacific", "Earthquakes"], "title": "China jails earthquake activist"},{"date": "2009-10-22T18:02:34Z", "country": "china", "content": "Chinese authorities have carried out their first executions of Tibetans in connection with the deadly riots that swept Lhasa last year, according to exile groups.As the first reported judicial killings in the region for six years, the news has prompted overseas protests and concerns that proper legal procedures were not followed.The Chinese state media have yet to confirm the executions. However, the Tibetan Centre for Human Rights and Democracy, based in Dharamsala in northern India, said it had reports that they took place early on Tuesday morning.It identified three of the executed Tibetans as two men \u2013 Lobsang Gyaltsen and Loyak \u2013 and a woman named Penkyi. The fourth victim was not named.The Lhasa intermediate people's court sentenced the two men to death on charges of arson in April, according to Xinhua news agency reports at the time. Under Chinese law, death penalty cases should be reviewed by the supreme court.The Dharamsala-based group said the body of Lobsang Gyaltsen had been handed to his family, while Loyak's ashes were given to his relatives.The director of Free Tibet, Stephanie Brigden, said the executions were an outrage. \"It is impossible to have any confidence that even the most basic legal norms were observed before the Chinese state sanctioned and carried out the killing of these four Tibetans,\" she said.London-based Tibetan groups called for a vigil outside the Chinese embassy. Free Tibet said the executions, which came just weeks after a Foreign Office minister, Ivan Lewis, made a rare trip to Lhasa, should prompt the British government to rethink the way it engages with China over the region.Labour MP Kate Hoey has tabled an early day motion calling for an inquiry into the UK government's failure to secure human rights improvements in Tibet.A US congressional commission will publish a study of Tibet next week which finds Chinese officials are strengthening efforts to separate Tibetan Buddhists from the Dalai Lama, and preparing to select his successor. However the study also notes that the Dalai Lama's willingness to restrict discussions only to areas that China considers part of Tibet have opened up an unprecedented opportunity for progress.In a separate case, Reporters Without Borders called for the release of three Tibetans who have been held since 1 October for allegedly sending information about Tibet to contacts abroad via the internet.It said the three have not been permitted to contact their families during detentions.\"The internet is monitored, censored and manipulated more in Tibet than in other Chinese provinces,\" Reporters Without Borders said. \"Despite the risks, Tibetan internet users continue to transmit information, especially to the diaspora and human rights groups. It is deplorable that the Chinese police devote so much energy to identifying and arresting ordinary internet users.\"", "tags": ["Tibet", "World news", "China", "Human rights", "Law", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China executes Tibetan protesters"},{"date": "2009-11-23T09:08:27Z", "country": "china", "content": "A Chinese court has sentenced a veteran dissident convicted of spying to three years in prison.Huang Qi was convicted of illegally possessing state secrets by the Wuhou district court in the western city of Chengdu, his wife Zeng Li said by telephone.Zeng said no details were given about the charge, an ill-defined accusation often used by Communist leaders to clamp down on dissent and imprison activists.Huang was detained on 10 June 2008 after posting articles on his website criticising the government's response to the May 2008 earthquake in Sichuan province that killed about 90,000 people. Huang also spoke to foreign media about parents' criticism that their children had been crushed in badly built schools. The government has tried to suppress such complaints.Zeng said Huang was taken directly from the court without being allowed to speak. She believed he would appeal the sentence.Calls to the court and Huang's lawyer, Mo Shaoping, rang unanswered.Huang previously served a five-year prison sentence on subversion charges linked to politically sensitive articles posted on his website.Since his release in 2005 he had supported a wide range of causes, including families of those killed in the 1989 military crackdown on pro-democracy protests in Beijing and farmers involved in land disputes with authorities.", "tags": ["China", "Protest", "Human rights", "China earthquake", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Law", "Asia Pacific", "Earthquakes"], "title": "China jails earthquake activist"},{"date": "2009-10-22T18:02:34Z", "country": "china", "content": "Chinese authorities have carried out their first executions of Tibetans in connection with the deadly riots that swept Lhasa last year, according to exile groups.As the first reported judicial killings in the region for six years, the news has prompted overseas protests and concerns that proper legal procedures were not followed.The Chinese state media have yet to confirm the executions. However, the Tibetan Centre for Human Rights and Democracy, based in Dharamsala in northern India, said it had reports that they took place early on Tuesday morning.It identified three of the executed Tibetans as two men \u2013 Lobsang Gyaltsen and Loyak \u2013 and a woman named Penkyi. The fourth victim was not named.The Lhasa intermediate people's court sentenced the two men to death on charges of arson in April, according to Xinhua news agency reports at the time. Under Chinese law, death penalty cases should be reviewed by the supreme court.The Dharamsala-based group said the body of Lobsang Gyaltsen had been handed to his family, while Loyak's ashes were given to his relatives.The director of Free Tibet, Stephanie Brigden, said the executions were an outrage. \"It is impossible to have any confidence that even the most basic legal norms were observed before the Chinese state sanctioned and carried out the killing of these four Tibetans,\" she said.London-based Tibetan groups called for a vigil outside the Chinese embassy. Free Tibet said the executions, which came just weeks after a Foreign Office minister, Ivan Lewis, made a rare trip to Lhasa, should prompt the British government to rethink the way it engages with China over the region.Labour MP Kate Hoey has tabled an early day motion calling for an inquiry into the UK government's failure to secure human rights improvements in Tibet.A US congressional commission will publish a study of Tibet next week which finds Chinese officials are strengthening efforts to separate Tibetan Buddhists from the Dalai Lama, and preparing to select his successor. However the study also notes that the Dalai Lama's willingness to restrict discussions only to areas that China considers part of Tibet have opened up an unprecedented opportunity for progress.In a separate case, Reporters Without Borders called for the release of three Tibetans who have been held since 1 October for allegedly sending information about Tibet to contacts abroad via the internet.It said the three have not been permitted to contact their families during detentions.\"The internet is monitored, censored and manipulated more in Tibet than in other Chinese provinces,\" Reporters Without Borders said. \"Despite the risks, Tibetan internet users continue to transmit information, especially to the diaspora and human rights groups. It is deplorable that the Chinese police devote so much energy to identifying and arresting ordinary internet users.\"", "tags": ["Tibet", "World news", "China", "Human rights", "Law", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China executes Tibetan protesters"},{"date": "2009-12-30T00:05:23Z", "country": "china", "content": "In a nasty diplomatic dance to the death, Britain and China have been exchanging carefully calculated protests this week over the fate of Akmal Shaikh. Neither side can have expected their words to change anything. British ministers and opposition leaders have expressed appropriate and genuine outrage at the poor man's judicial killing. China, in turn, has shrugged off complaints as unjustified interference. \"No one has the right to comment on China's judicial sovereignty,\" said a representative of the Chinese foreign ministry yesterday.That latter statement is of course nonsense. Britain has a duty to express horror at the execution of one of its citizens, especially someone as confused and unwell as the unfortunate Mr Shaikh, who seems to have been lured into smuggling without knowing what he was doing. The serious criminals are the people who used him, and people around the world like him, as drug mules \u2013 but they are often rich enough, or hidden enough, to escape. That, sadly, was not the case with Mr Shaikh, who died on Tuesday morning amid disingenuous Chinese claims that the 4,030 grams of heroin he smuggled was \"enough to cause 26,800 deaths\".In the same statement, issued on Christmas Eve, the Chinese embassy in London made a pointed reference to the country's \"bitter memory of drug problems in history\". Not that long ago, Britain fought wars to keep the opium trade open. China may well feel resentment at being lectured about drugs by a power that once supplied them. But the country ought to listen. Protests about China's human rights record are not intended to weaken the country, or humiliate it, but to protect its citizens. China would be more respected in the world if it did not sustain such a casual approach to trying and executing its people. Much about what happens is secret, but Amnesty International believes that at least 7,003 people were sentenced to death in China last year, and at least 1,718 were executed. That is more industrialised slaughter than justice.Some argue that external pressure will only do harm. The world needs Chinese co-operation to overcome the financial crisis and the environmental one. Whatever the truth behind the outcome of the Copenhagen summit, an obstructive China is in a position to do great harm, and a co-operative one great good. That, though, should not stop other countries speaking out. In the last years of British rule in Hong Kong, so-called old China hands in the Foreign Office deplored Chris Patten's brave attempt to bring democracy to the colony. Fiery words were exchanged. But it made Hong Kong a better place. Respect for Chinese power is no reason to stay silent when China is in the wrong.", "tags": ["Capital punishment", "China", "UK news", "Politics", "Human rights", "Foreign policy", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Britain and China: Death deplored"},{"date": "2009-11-23T09:08:27Z", "country": "china", "content": "A Chinese court has sentenced a veteran dissident convicted of spying to three years in prison.Huang Qi was convicted of illegally possessing state secrets by the Wuhou district court in the western city of Chengdu, his wife Zeng Li said by telephone.Zeng said no details were given about the charge, an ill-defined accusation often used by Communist leaders to clamp down on dissent and imprison activists.Huang was detained on 10 June 2008 after posting articles on his website criticising the government's response to the May 2008 earthquake in Sichuan province that killed about 90,000 people. Huang also spoke to foreign media about parents' criticism that their children had been crushed in badly built schools. The government has tried to suppress such complaints.Zeng said Huang was taken directly from the court without being allowed to speak. She believed he would appeal the sentence.Calls to the court and Huang's lawyer, Mo Shaoping, rang unanswered.Huang previously served a five-year prison sentence on subversion charges linked to politically sensitive articles posted on his website.Since his release in 2005 he had supported a wide range of causes, including families of those killed in the 1989 military crackdown on pro-democracy protests in Beijing and farmers involved in land disputes with authorities.", "tags": ["China", "Protest", "Human rights", "China earthquake", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Law", "Asia Pacific", "Earthquakes"], "title": "China jails earthquake activist"},{"date": "2009-10-22T18:02:34Z", "country": "china", "content": "Chinese authorities have carried out their first executions of Tibetans in connection with the deadly riots that swept Lhasa last year, according to exile groups.As the first reported judicial killings in the region for six years, the news has prompted overseas protests and concerns that proper legal procedures were not followed.The Chinese state media have yet to confirm the executions. However, the Tibetan Centre for Human Rights and Democracy, based in Dharamsala in northern India, said it had reports that they took place early on Tuesday morning.It identified three of the executed Tibetans as two men \u2013 Lobsang Gyaltsen and Loyak \u2013 and a woman named Penkyi. The fourth victim was not named.The Lhasa intermediate people's court sentenced the two men to death on charges of arson in April, according to Xinhua news agency reports at the time. Under Chinese law, death penalty cases should be reviewed by the supreme court.The Dharamsala-based group said the body of Lobsang Gyaltsen had been handed to his family, while Loyak's ashes were given to his relatives.The director of Free Tibet, Stephanie Brigden, said the executions were an outrage. \"It is impossible to have any confidence that even the most basic legal norms were observed before the Chinese state sanctioned and carried out the killing of these four Tibetans,\" she said.London-based Tibetan groups called for a vigil outside the Chinese embassy. Free Tibet said the executions, which came just weeks after a Foreign Office minister, Ivan Lewis, made a rare trip to Lhasa, should prompt the British government to rethink the way it engages with China over the region.Labour MP Kate Hoey has tabled an early day motion calling for an inquiry into the UK government's failure to secure human rights improvements in Tibet.A US congressional commission will publish a study of Tibet next week which finds Chinese officials are strengthening efforts to separate Tibetan Buddhists from the Dalai Lama, and preparing to select his successor. However the study also notes that the Dalai Lama's willingness to restrict discussions only to areas that China considers part of Tibet have opened up an unprecedented opportunity for progress.In a separate case, Reporters Without Borders called for the release of three Tibetans who have been held since 1 October for allegedly sending information about Tibet to contacts abroad via the internet.It said the three have not been permitted to contact their families during detentions.\"The internet is monitored, censored and manipulated more in Tibet than in other Chinese provinces,\" Reporters Without Borders said. \"Despite the risks, Tibetan internet users continue to transmit information, especially to the diaspora and human rights groups. It is deplorable that the Chinese police devote so much energy to identifying and arresting ordinary internet users.\"", "tags": ["Tibet", "World news", "China", "Human rights", "Law", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China executes Tibetan protesters"},{"date": "2009-12-30T00:05:23Z", "country": "china", "content": "In a nasty diplomatic dance to the death, Britain and China have been exchanging carefully calculated protests this week over the fate of Akmal Shaikh. Neither side can have expected their words to change anything. British ministers and opposition leaders have expressed appropriate and genuine outrage at the poor man's judicial killing. China, in turn, has shrugged off complaints as unjustified interference. \"No one has the right to comment on China's judicial sovereignty,\" said a representative of the Chinese foreign ministry yesterday.That latter statement is of course nonsense. Britain has a duty to express horror at the execution of one of its citizens, especially someone as confused and unwell as the unfortunate Mr Shaikh, who seems to have been lured into smuggling without knowing what he was doing. The serious criminals are the people who used him, and people around the world like him, as drug mules \u2013 but they are often rich enough, or hidden enough, to escape. That, sadly, was not the case with Mr Shaikh, who died on Tuesday morning amid disingenuous Chinese claims that the 4,030 grams of heroin he smuggled was \"enough to cause 26,800 deaths\".In the same statement, issued on Christmas Eve, the Chinese embassy in London made a pointed reference to the country's \"bitter memory of drug problems in history\". Not that long ago, Britain fought wars to keep the opium trade open. China may well feel resentment at being lectured about drugs by a power that once supplied them. But the country ought to listen. Protests about China's human rights record are not intended to weaken the country, or humiliate it, but to protect its citizens. China would be more respected in the world if it did not sustain such a casual approach to trying and executing its people. Much about what happens is secret, but Amnesty International believes that at least 7,003 people were sentenced to death in China last year, and at least 1,718 were executed. That is more industrialised slaughter than justice.Some argue that external pressure will only do harm. The world needs Chinese co-operation to overcome the financial crisis and the environmental one. Whatever the truth behind the outcome of the Copenhagen summit, an obstructive China is in a position to do great harm, and a co-operative one great good. That, though, should not stop other countries speaking out. In the last years of British rule in Hong Kong, so-called old China hands in the Foreign Office deplored Chris Patten's brave attempt to bring democracy to the colony. Fiery words were exchanged. But it made Hong Kong a better place. Respect for Chinese power is no reason to stay silent when China is in the wrong.", "tags": ["Capital punishment", "China", "UK news", "Politics", "Human rights", "Foreign policy", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Britain and China: Death deplored"},{"date": "2009-12-30T19:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "What is becoming ever more clear as this year rattles to an end is that the west has no idea how to handle China. Since the relationship of the People's Republic will be a key factor in the year (and many more years) ahead, that makes this a core question for the Obama administration and Europe \u2013 and, closer to the mainland, for India and Japan as well. But there still seems to be an almost childish reluctance in the west to accept China for what it is, whatever one may think of what it is.It might be nice if China was more like us, but it isn't going to be. Expecting it to fit into the paradigm set by the west is not only futile but positively dangerous. The sooner governments start to work out a meaningful China policy rather than depending on wishful thinking, the better. It would make a good New year's resolution. But I'm not holding my breath.The sad case of Akmal Shaikh, the London man executed in China on drug smuggling charges provides the latest example of how little the conventional approach to China on decent humanitarian grounds yields, just as concern abroad about the fate of Charter 08 dissident Liu Xiaobo did nothing to prevent him being sentenced to 11 years in jail on Christmas Day. China has reacted indignantly to the protests about Shaikh. The argument that China has made a mockery of justice has been made on Cif by Clive Stafford Smith. Less convincingly, we have had the descant of a reminder of the opium wars, as if Shaikh was a reincarnation of the East India Company, and relativists trotting out the tired old fallacy that human rights abuses in the west and executions in the US disbar us from protesting at the way the trial was conducted.Behind this froth, what is plain is that China has once again asserted its determination to protect its own sovereignty whatever the issue, and is intent on doing things its way. Given its economic progress in the past three decades and the immediate effect of its huge pump-priming over the past 12 months in restoring growth (even if the second half of next year may prove more problematic), the leadership and the population feel pretty good about themselves. They are in no mood to take lessons, moral or otherwise, from the west.In this context, the Shaikh case fits into a string of scratchy non-meetings of mind between China and the west over the last couple of months.First there has been the long-running issue of the under-valuation of the Chinese currency. The case for appreciation of the yuan is undeniable. Equally undeniable is that Beijing is going to do no such thing until its exports rise back to their pre-crisis levels. Even then it has large amount of excess capacity to keep employed, and tens of millions of workers to provide jobs for when the current infrastructure programme starts to come to an end in the second half of 2010. So, however well-founded the arguments put it by the treasury department in Washington or the European Central Bank, the leadership stands firm.Then we had the spectacle of Obama's visit to China, during which his \"town hall\" meeting in Shanghai was transmitted only by one local television station, and during which the Chinese arranged a programme for him that was heavy on tourism. Yes, it ended with a lengthy list of general agreements to co-operate and assurances that the basis was being laid for long-term relationship. But the beef was missing, and US briefings that the two sides had reached meaningful agreement on climate change were swiftly blown apart by the fiasco of Copenhagen.That conference showed just how western leaders are for understanding how China really works. The idea that, by crashing the meeting of major emerging economies, Obama could reach a last-minute deal with the Chinese prime minister to save the planet would have been laughable if it had not been tragic. Did the US president really think Wen Jiabao had any wriggle room to succumb to his charm and reason? Did he imagine that the prime minister would suddenly jettison 60 years of suspicion of the outside world to allow independent monitoring?Mark Lynas's much-remarked piece in the Guardian puts the blame squarely on Beijing, but takes no account of how the Chinese system actually operates, seemingly imagining it runs on western lines. The Chinese position would have been set out in advance and approved by the standing committee of the politburo. Wen could not deviate from that, even if he had been minded to do so. He may be prime minister but he ranks third in the standing committee and moves carefully. On such a crucial issue, he would be able to do absolutely nothing that might be seen as jeopardising the domestic economy; China accords importance to the environment but a good deal more to growth.In addition, several key Chinese leaders were out of Beijing at the time and this is a leadership that likes to have everybody in the room when decisions are made and doesn't believe in long-range teleconferences. So it is safe to assume that China was not in negotiating mode, and that, unless Beijing was being set up as the fall guy, Obama, Brown, Miliband et al should have know this, and negotiated accordingly. The same goes for the currency, human rights and, unfortunately for him, for Shaikh. It is also likely to be the case if trade disputes swell next year, as one must anticipate.That leads to an underlying element which, again, seems insufficiently appreciated by western governments. General Secretary Hu and Wen operate by consensus. They are careful bureaucrats who do not command an automatic majority in the nine-man standing committee. Gone are the days of Mao getting out of bed one afternoon and deciding on a major policy initiative or of Deng Xiaoping imposing himself on those who nominally held positions superior to him. That is, in a way, healthy, but it means inflexibility at the top. Hu and Wen have to deal with factions, lobbies and powerful state companies. For all the liberation of the goods market, the economy is still tightly controlled in key input areas, buttressing the power of entrenched interests. The Communist party knows it needs to reform itself but is terrified of the effect of doing so.All that is a recipe for caution. Not for the kind of reasoned flexibility and give-and-take which the west likes to make the basis for relationships between nations (however fallible this proves in practice). Repeating mantras about the need to revalue the yuan, respect human rights, join in independent monitoring or accept emission targets which would threaten the growth that provides the regime's prime legitimacy may be necessary for the west's own self-respect and defence of its own values. But the chances of getting results is razor-thin until a new policy context is evolved.", "tags": ["China", "US foreign policy", "Capital punishment", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "How not to handle China | Jonathan Fenby"},{"date": "2009-11-23T09:08:27Z", "country": "china", "content": "A Chinese court has sentenced a veteran dissident convicted of spying to three years in prison.Huang Qi was convicted of illegally possessing state secrets by the Wuhou district court in the western city of Chengdu, his wife Zeng Li said by telephone.Zeng said no details were given about the charge, an ill-defined accusation often used by Communist leaders to clamp down on dissent and imprison activists.Huang was detained on 10 June 2008 after posting articles on his website criticising the government's response to the May 2008 earthquake in Sichuan province that killed about 90,000 people. Huang also spoke to foreign media about parents' criticism that their children had been crushed in badly built schools. The government has tried to suppress such complaints.Zeng said Huang was taken directly from the court without being allowed to speak. She believed he would appeal the sentence.Calls to the court and Huang's lawyer, Mo Shaoping, rang unanswered.Huang previously served a five-year prison sentence on subversion charges linked to politically sensitive articles posted on his website.Since his release in 2005 he had supported a wide range of causes, including families of those killed in the 1989 military crackdown on pro-democracy protests in Beijing and farmers involved in land disputes with authorities.", "tags": ["China", "Protest", "Human rights", "China earthquake", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Law", "Asia Pacific", "Earthquakes"], "title": "China jails earthquake activist"},{"date": "2009-10-22T18:02:34Z", "country": "china", "content": "Chinese authorities have carried out their first executions of Tibetans in connection with the deadly riots that swept Lhasa last year, according to exile groups.As the first reported judicial killings in the region for six years, the news has prompted overseas protests and concerns that proper legal procedures were not followed.The Chinese state media have yet to confirm the executions. However, the Tibetan Centre for Human Rights and Democracy, based in Dharamsala in northern India, said it had reports that they took place early on Tuesday morning.It identified three of the executed Tibetans as two men \u2013 Lobsang Gyaltsen and Loyak \u2013 and a woman named Penkyi. The fourth victim was not named.The Lhasa intermediate people's court sentenced the two men to death on charges of arson in April, according to Xinhua news agency reports at the time. Under Chinese law, death penalty cases should be reviewed by the supreme court.The Dharamsala-based group said the body of Lobsang Gyaltsen had been handed to his family, while Loyak's ashes were given to his relatives.The director of Free Tibet, Stephanie Brigden, said the executions were an outrage. \"It is impossible to have any confidence that even the most basic legal norms were observed before the Chinese state sanctioned and carried out the killing of these four Tibetans,\" she said.London-based Tibetan groups called for a vigil outside the Chinese embassy. Free Tibet said the executions, which came just weeks after a Foreign Office minister, Ivan Lewis, made a rare trip to Lhasa, should prompt the British government to rethink the way it engages with China over the region.Labour MP Kate Hoey has tabled an early day motion calling for an inquiry into the UK government's failure to secure human rights improvements in Tibet.A US congressional commission will publish a study of Tibet next week which finds Chinese officials are strengthening efforts to separate Tibetan Buddhists from the Dalai Lama, and preparing to select his successor. However the study also notes that the Dalai Lama's willingness to restrict discussions only to areas that China considers part of Tibet have opened up an unprecedented opportunity for progress.In a separate case, Reporters Without Borders called for the release of three Tibetans who have been held since 1 October for allegedly sending information about Tibet to contacts abroad via the internet.It said the three have not been permitted to contact their families during detentions.\"The internet is monitored, censored and manipulated more in Tibet than in other Chinese provinces,\" Reporters Without Borders said. \"Despite the risks, Tibetan internet users continue to transmit information, especially to the diaspora and human rights groups. It is deplorable that the Chinese police devote so much energy to identifying and arresting ordinary internet users.\"", "tags": ["Tibet", "World news", "China", "Human rights", "Law", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China executes Tibetan protesters"},{"date": "2009-12-30T00:05:23Z", "country": "china", "content": "In a nasty diplomatic dance to the death, Britain and China have been exchanging carefully calculated protests this week over the fate of Akmal Shaikh. Neither side can have expected their words to change anything. British ministers and opposition leaders have expressed appropriate and genuine outrage at the poor man's judicial killing. China, in turn, has shrugged off complaints as unjustified interference. \"No one has the right to comment on China's judicial sovereignty,\" said a representative of the Chinese foreign ministry yesterday.That latter statement is of course nonsense. Britain has a duty to express horror at the execution of one of its citizens, especially someone as confused and unwell as the unfortunate Mr Shaikh, who seems to have been lured into smuggling without knowing what he was doing. The serious criminals are the people who used him, and people around the world like him, as drug mules \u2013 but they are often rich enough, or hidden enough, to escape. That, sadly, was not the case with Mr Shaikh, who died on Tuesday morning amid disingenuous Chinese claims that the 4,030 grams of heroin he smuggled was \"enough to cause 26,800 deaths\".In the same statement, issued on Christmas Eve, the Chinese embassy in London made a pointed reference to the country's \"bitter memory of drug problems in history\". Not that long ago, Britain fought wars to keep the opium trade open. China may well feel resentment at being lectured about drugs by a power that once supplied them. But the country ought to listen. Protests about China's human rights record are not intended to weaken the country, or humiliate it, but to protect its citizens. China would be more respected in the world if it did not sustain such a casual approach to trying and executing its people. Much about what happens is secret, but Amnesty International believes that at least 7,003 people were sentenced to death in China last year, and at least 1,718 were executed. That is more industrialised slaughter than justice.Some argue that external pressure will only do harm. The world needs Chinese co-operation to overcome the financial crisis and the environmental one. Whatever the truth behind the outcome of the Copenhagen summit, an obstructive China is in a position to do great harm, and a co-operative one great good. That, though, should not stop other countries speaking out. In the last years of British rule in Hong Kong, so-called old China hands in the Foreign Office deplored Chris Patten's brave attempt to bring democracy to the colony. Fiery words were exchanged. But it made Hong Kong a better place. Respect for Chinese power is no reason to stay silent when China is in the wrong.", "tags": ["Capital punishment", "China", "UK news", "Politics", "Human rights", "Foreign policy", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Britain and China: Death deplored"},{"date": "2009-12-30T19:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "What is becoming ever more clear as this year rattles to an end is that the west has no idea how to handle China. Since the relationship of the People's Republic will be a key factor in the year (and many more years) ahead, that makes this a core question for the Obama administration and Europe \u2013 and, closer to the mainland, for India and Japan as well. But there still seems to be an almost childish reluctance in the west to accept China for what it is, whatever one may think of what it is.It might be nice if China was more like us, but it isn't going to be. Expecting it to fit into the paradigm set by the west is not only futile but positively dangerous. The sooner governments start to work out a meaningful China policy rather than depending on wishful thinking, the better. It would make a good New year's resolution. But I'm not holding my breath.The sad case of Akmal Shaikh, the London man executed in China on drug smuggling charges provides the latest example of how little the conventional approach to China on decent humanitarian grounds yields, just as concern abroad about the fate of Charter 08 dissident Liu Xiaobo did nothing to prevent him being sentenced to 11 years in jail on Christmas Day. China has reacted indignantly to the protests about Shaikh. The argument that China has made a mockery of justice has been made on Cif by Clive Stafford Smith. Less convincingly, we have had the descant of a reminder of the opium wars, as if Shaikh was a reincarnation of the East India Company, and relativists trotting out the tired old fallacy that human rights abuses in the west and executions in the US disbar us from protesting at the way the trial was conducted.Behind this froth, what is plain is that China has once again asserted its determination to protect its own sovereignty whatever the issue, and is intent on doing things its way. Given its economic progress in the past three decades and the immediate effect of its huge pump-priming over the past 12 months in restoring growth (even if the second half of next year may prove more problematic), the leadership and the population feel pretty good about themselves. They are in no mood to take lessons, moral or otherwise, from the west.In this context, the Shaikh case fits into a string of scratchy non-meetings of mind between China and the west over the last couple of months.First there has been the long-running issue of the under-valuation of the Chinese currency. The case for appreciation of the yuan is undeniable. Equally undeniable is that Beijing is going to do no such thing until its exports rise back to their pre-crisis levels. Even then it has large amount of excess capacity to keep employed, and tens of millions of workers to provide jobs for when the current infrastructure programme starts to come to an end in the second half of 2010. So, however well-founded the arguments put it by the treasury department in Washington or the European Central Bank, the leadership stands firm.Then we had the spectacle of Obama's visit to China, during which his \"town hall\" meeting in Shanghai was transmitted only by one local television station, and during which the Chinese arranged a programme for him that was heavy on tourism. Yes, it ended with a lengthy list of general agreements to co-operate and assurances that the basis was being laid for long-term relationship. But the beef was missing, and US briefings that the two sides had reached meaningful agreement on climate change were swiftly blown apart by the fiasco of Copenhagen.That conference showed just how western leaders are for understanding how China really works. The idea that, by crashing the meeting of major emerging economies, Obama could reach a last-minute deal with the Chinese prime minister to save the planet would have been laughable if it had not been tragic. Did the US president really think Wen Jiabao had any wriggle room to succumb to his charm and reason? Did he imagine that the prime minister would suddenly jettison 60 years of suspicion of the outside world to allow independent monitoring?Mark Lynas's much-remarked piece in the Guardian puts the blame squarely on Beijing, but takes no account of how the Chinese system actually operates, seemingly imagining it runs on western lines. The Chinese position would have been set out in advance and approved by the standing committee of the politburo. Wen could not deviate from that, even if he had been minded to do so. He may be prime minister but he ranks third in the standing committee and moves carefully. On such a crucial issue, he would be able to do absolutely nothing that might be seen as jeopardising the domestic economy; China accords importance to the environment but a good deal more to growth.In addition, several key Chinese leaders were out of Beijing at the time and this is a leadership that likes to have everybody in the room when decisions are made and doesn't believe in long-range teleconferences. So it is safe to assume that China was not in negotiating mode, and that, unless Beijing was being set up as the fall guy, Obama, Brown, Miliband et al should have know this, and negotiated accordingly. The same goes for the currency, human rights and, unfortunately for him, for Shaikh. It is also likely to be the case if trade disputes swell next year, as one must anticipate.That leads to an underlying element which, again, seems insufficiently appreciated by western governments. General Secretary Hu and Wen operate by consensus. They are careful bureaucrats who do not command an automatic majority in the nine-man standing committee. Gone are the days of Mao getting out of bed one afternoon and deciding on a major policy initiative or of Deng Xiaoping imposing himself on those who nominally held positions superior to him. That is, in a way, healthy, but it means inflexibility at the top. Hu and Wen have to deal with factions, lobbies and powerful state companies. For all the liberation of the goods market, the economy is still tightly controlled in key input areas, buttressing the power of entrenched interests. The Communist party knows it needs to reform itself but is terrified of the effect of doing so.All that is a recipe for caution. Not for the kind of reasoned flexibility and give-and-take which the west likes to make the basis for relationships between nations (however fallible this proves in practice). Repeating mantras about the need to revalue the yuan, respect human rights, join in independent monitoring or accept emission targets which would threaten the growth that provides the regime's prime legitimacy may be necessary for the west's own self-respect and defence of its own values. But the chances of getting results is razor-thin until a new policy context is evolved.", "tags": ["China", "US foreign policy", "Capital punishment", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "How not to handle China | Jonathan Fenby"},{"date": "2009-12-29T10:32:25Z", "country": "china", "content": "I'm sorry too that the Chinese have just executed Akmal Shaikh, an apparently mentally ill Briton. He was clearly an expendable drugs mule, cynically exploited by traffickers who are still alive and well today.But I'm also sorry about the international clamour to denounce China, which sounds at least as hypocritical and insensitive as the act itself. Can Gordon Brown and David Cameron \u2013 to name but two \u2013 hear what they sound like?Let's start with the basics. Most of us (not all) deplore the drugs trade \u2013 from cultivation to distribution and sale \u2013 which is illegal in most countries (not all) and has spawned a huge and lucrative global industry.Some think the \"cure'' \u2013 the worldwide campaign against the trade \u2013 worse than the disease since it underpins major criminal enterprises on all continents. It has long been the case, though I would personally hesitate to risk legalising it and hoping for the best.Different countries tackle the problem in different ways. China, which has a rising drugs problem as it enters the modern consumer era, is one of those which takes a tough line. As the Guardian's Q&A points out today it is one of the few crimes to attract a mandatory death sentence.Enter poor Akmal Shaikh, who seems to have gone off the rails in middle age after leading a quiet family life as a north London taxi driver. Someone who struck acquaintances as very odd after he emigrated to Poland with grandiose ideas, he falls into bad company which exploits his gullibility.So he ends up landing in Urumqi, northern China, in 2007 and being caught at the airport with 4kg of heroin in his luggage. He told police he knew nothing about it. It's a tragically familiar story and, in his case, it's probably true.In the wake of his execution the Chinese authorities sound quite angry at criticism of their judicial system. Shaikh had a fair trial, complete with interpreter, they say. He was deemed fit to plead.Mental illness? Ah, that's a tricky one. But it's easy to see how the Chinese might take a very different view of how it is defined. So do many jurisdictions \u2013 as we all know \u2013 on this and many other legal issues: \"self defence\", \"crimes of passion\", \"third degree homicide\", \"honour killings\", lots of scope for moral relativism in all of them.Reprieve and other admirable campaigns which fight for the rights of prisoners in foreign jurisdictions have the virtue of consistency. Thus they oppose the death penalty wherever it exists, including the US, where it was abolished as a \"cruel and unnatural punishment'' in 1972 \u2013 and restored in 1976 when the supreme court changed its mind.Though they are pretty half-hearted about it compared with China's 1,700 or so known executions (they are reported to sell body parts for medical use) a year, southern US states are keenest.As governors both George W Bush and Bill Clinton \u2013 whom so many of us admire \u2013 signed off on questionable executions of vulnerable, marginalised people like Akmal Shaikh. A high proportion of the 3,000 or so Americans on Death Row \u2013 few actually executed \u2013 are black. Britain? We last executed a man called Peter Allen at Walton jail on 13 August 1964 for murder  \u2013 three years before the final abolition of the death penalty.Not so long ago really (our last Etonian PM, Sir Alec Douglas-Home, was in No 10) and, as China's very smart UK ambassador has probably told Beijing, capital punishment still commands as much enthusiasm here 40 years later as it does in China, ie lots.So there's a sovereignty issue. China \u2013 like the US \u2013 has the right to pass and implement its own laws and governments, governments-in-waiting in Cameron's case, should pause before getting too mouthy. Apparently 27 representations were made to China by Britain over the past two years \u2013 mostly quietly, I assume, which is always the best way.But the execution took place during the Christmas news lull: hence the sudden high profile. Thank goodness Ivan Lewis, the junior foreign office minister put up to talk about it today, saidL \"I'm not going to make idle threats\" \u2013 or we might be starting 2010 going to war with China.Talking of which, the really toe-curling fact, of which neither Dr Gordon Brown with his PhD in history, nor David Cameron with his 1st in PPE should be ignorant, is Anglo-Chinese history.When Europeans started forcing the reclusive China of the late Ming and Qing dynasty to open its doors to trade in the 16th and 17th century the visitors wanted more Chinese goods \u2013 all that tea, silk and lovely porcelain \u2013 than the Chinese wanted of ours.Sounds familiar? What the Chinese would accept was silver, a better bet than the US dollars they now hold in such vast quantities. This was unsustainable and in the 19th century the British East India Company hit on the idea of importing Indian opium to China \u2013 though it was banned by imperial Chinese law.I hope you've spotted where I'm heading. If not here's Wiki's starter kit on the Opium Wars of 1839-42 and 1856-60 which culminated in the so-called \"unequal treaties\" and the eventual overthrow of the Qing in 1912.Result: China was forced to accept the trade with devastating social consequences. In fairness I should add that the stuff was legal in Britain at the time \u2013 as readers of Victorian novels can confirm. The Chinese governor Lin Zexu became a hero for opposing the trade \u2013 as did young William Gladstone at Westminster.All the same, it is a pretty shameful story. Perhaps it slipped your memory? It certainly hasn't slipped theirs and is still unravelling: they only got Hong Kong back in 1997 and have never rebuilt the burned Summer Palace at Beijing \u2013 their Windsor.So, one way or another, poor Akmal Shaikh was the wrong man in the wrong place. But China is likely to be impervious to lectures from Europeans on the morality of the drugs trade.As the world's rising power it's unlikely to be lectured anyway, but that's another story \u2013 one we'll rapidly have to get used to. No declaration of war this week, please Ivan.", "tags": ["Politics", "UK news", "China", "Gordon Brown", "David Cameron", "Foreign policy", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Why denouncing China is hypocritical| Michael White"},{"date": "2009-11-23T09:08:27Z", "country": "china", "content": "A Chinese court has sentenced a veteran dissident convicted of spying to three years in prison.Huang Qi was convicted of illegally possessing state secrets by the Wuhou district court in the western city of Chengdu, his wife Zeng Li said by telephone.Zeng said no details were given about the charge, an ill-defined accusation often used by Communist leaders to clamp down on dissent and imprison activists.Huang was detained on 10 June 2008 after posting articles on his website criticising the government's response to the May 2008 earthquake in Sichuan province that killed about 90,000 people. Huang also spoke to foreign media about parents' criticism that their children had been crushed in badly built schools. The government has tried to suppress such complaints.Zeng said Huang was taken directly from the court without being allowed to speak. She believed he would appeal the sentence.Calls to the court and Huang's lawyer, Mo Shaoping, rang unanswered.Huang previously served a five-year prison sentence on subversion charges linked to politically sensitive articles posted on his website.Since his release in 2005 he had supported a wide range of causes, including families of those killed in the 1989 military crackdown on pro-democracy protests in Beijing and farmers involved in land disputes with authorities.", "tags": ["China", "Protest", "Human rights", "China earthquake", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Law", "Asia Pacific", "Earthquakes"], "title": "China jails earthquake activist"},{"date": "2009-10-22T18:02:34Z", "country": "china", "content": "Chinese authorities have carried out their first executions of Tibetans in connection with the deadly riots that swept Lhasa last year, according to exile groups.As the first reported judicial killings in the region for six years, the news has prompted overseas protests and concerns that proper legal procedures were not followed.The Chinese state media have yet to confirm the executions. However, the Tibetan Centre for Human Rights and Democracy, based in Dharamsala in northern India, said it had reports that they took place early on Tuesday morning.It identified three of the executed Tibetans as two men \u2013 Lobsang Gyaltsen and Loyak \u2013 and a woman named Penkyi. The fourth victim was not named.The Lhasa intermediate people's court sentenced the two men to death on charges of arson in April, according to Xinhua news agency reports at the time. Under Chinese law, death penalty cases should be reviewed by the supreme court.The Dharamsala-based group said the body of Lobsang Gyaltsen had been handed to his family, while Loyak's ashes were given to his relatives.The director of Free Tibet, Stephanie Brigden, said the executions were an outrage. \"It is impossible to have any confidence that even the most basic legal norms were observed before the Chinese state sanctioned and carried out the killing of these four Tibetans,\" she said.London-based Tibetan groups called for a vigil outside the Chinese embassy. Free Tibet said the executions, which came just weeks after a Foreign Office minister, Ivan Lewis, made a rare trip to Lhasa, should prompt the British government to rethink the way it engages with China over the region.Labour MP Kate Hoey has tabled an early day motion calling for an inquiry into the UK government's failure to secure human rights improvements in Tibet.A US congressional commission will publish a study of Tibet next week which finds Chinese officials are strengthening efforts to separate Tibetan Buddhists from the Dalai Lama, and preparing to select his successor. However the study also notes that the Dalai Lama's willingness to restrict discussions only to areas that China considers part of Tibet have opened up an unprecedented opportunity for progress.In a separate case, Reporters Without Borders called for the release of three Tibetans who have been held since 1 October for allegedly sending information about Tibet to contacts abroad via the internet.It said the three have not been permitted to contact their families during detentions.\"The internet is monitored, censored and manipulated more in Tibet than in other Chinese provinces,\" Reporters Without Borders said. \"Despite the risks, Tibetan internet users continue to transmit information, especially to the diaspora and human rights groups. It is deplorable that the Chinese police devote so much energy to identifying and arresting ordinary internet users.\"", "tags": ["Tibet", "World news", "China", "Human rights", "Law", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China executes Tibetan protesters"},{"date": "2009-12-30T00:05:23Z", "country": "china", "content": "In a nasty diplomatic dance to the death, Britain and China have been exchanging carefully calculated protests this week over the fate of Akmal Shaikh. Neither side can have expected their words to change anything. British ministers and opposition leaders have expressed appropriate and genuine outrage at the poor man's judicial killing. China, in turn, has shrugged off complaints as unjustified interference. \"No one has the right to comment on China's judicial sovereignty,\" said a representative of the Chinese foreign ministry yesterday.That latter statement is of course nonsense. Britain has a duty to express horror at the execution of one of its citizens, especially someone as confused and unwell as the unfortunate Mr Shaikh, who seems to have been lured into smuggling without knowing what he was doing. The serious criminals are the people who used him, and people around the world like him, as drug mules \u2013 but they are often rich enough, or hidden enough, to escape. That, sadly, was not the case with Mr Shaikh, who died on Tuesday morning amid disingenuous Chinese claims that the 4,030 grams of heroin he smuggled was \"enough to cause 26,800 deaths\".In the same statement, issued on Christmas Eve, the Chinese embassy in London made a pointed reference to the country's \"bitter memory of drug problems in history\". Not that long ago, Britain fought wars to keep the opium trade open. China may well feel resentment at being lectured about drugs by a power that once supplied them. But the country ought to listen. Protests about China's human rights record are not intended to weaken the country, or humiliate it, but to protect its citizens. China would be more respected in the world if it did not sustain such a casual approach to trying and executing its people. Much about what happens is secret, but Amnesty International believes that at least 7,003 people were sentenced to death in China last year, and at least 1,718 were executed. That is more industrialised slaughter than justice.Some argue that external pressure will only do harm. The world needs Chinese co-operation to overcome the financial crisis and the environmental one. Whatever the truth behind the outcome of the Copenhagen summit, an obstructive China is in a position to do great harm, and a co-operative one great good. That, though, should not stop other countries speaking out. In the last years of British rule in Hong Kong, so-called old China hands in the Foreign Office deplored Chris Patten's brave attempt to bring democracy to the colony. Fiery words were exchanged. But it made Hong Kong a better place. Respect for Chinese power is no reason to stay silent when China is in the wrong.", "tags": ["Capital punishment", "China", "UK news", "Politics", "Human rights", "Foreign policy", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Britain and China: Death deplored"},{"date": "2009-12-30T19:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "What is becoming ever more clear as this year rattles to an end is that the west has no idea how to handle China. Since the relationship of the People's Republic will be a key factor in the year (and many more years) ahead, that makes this a core question for the Obama administration and Europe \u2013 and, closer to the mainland, for India and Japan as well. But there still seems to be an almost childish reluctance in the west to accept China for what it is, whatever one may think of what it is.It might be nice if China was more like us, but it isn't going to be. Expecting it to fit into the paradigm set by the west is not only futile but positively dangerous. The sooner governments start to work out a meaningful China policy rather than depending on wishful thinking, the better. It would make a good New year's resolution. But I'm not holding my breath.The sad case of Akmal Shaikh, the London man executed in China on drug smuggling charges provides the latest example of how little the conventional approach to China on decent humanitarian grounds yields, just as concern abroad about the fate of Charter 08 dissident Liu Xiaobo did nothing to prevent him being sentenced to 11 years in jail on Christmas Day. China has reacted indignantly to the protests about Shaikh. The argument that China has made a mockery of justice has been made on Cif by Clive Stafford Smith. Less convincingly, we have had the descant of a reminder of the opium wars, as if Shaikh was a reincarnation of the East India Company, and relativists trotting out the tired old fallacy that human rights abuses in the west and executions in the US disbar us from protesting at the way the trial was conducted.Behind this froth, what is plain is that China has once again asserted its determination to protect its own sovereignty whatever the issue, and is intent on doing things its way. Given its economic progress in the past three decades and the immediate effect of its huge pump-priming over the past 12 months in restoring growth (even if the second half of next year may prove more problematic), the leadership and the population feel pretty good about themselves. They are in no mood to take lessons, moral or otherwise, from the west.In this context, the Shaikh case fits into a string of scratchy non-meetings of mind between China and the west over the last couple of months.First there has been the long-running issue of the under-valuation of the Chinese currency. The case for appreciation of the yuan is undeniable. Equally undeniable is that Beijing is going to do no such thing until its exports rise back to their pre-crisis levels. Even then it has large amount of excess capacity to keep employed, and tens of millions of workers to provide jobs for when the current infrastructure programme starts to come to an end in the second half of 2010. So, however well-founded the arguments put it by the treasury department in Washington or the European Central Bank, the leadership stands firm.Then we had the spectacle of Obama's visit to China, during which his \"town hall\" meeting in Shanghai was transmitted only by one local television station, and during which the Chinese arranged a programme for him that was heavy on tourism. Yes, it ended with a lengthy list of general agreements to co-operate and assurances that the basis was being laid for long-term relationship. But the beef was missing, and US briefings that the two sides had reached meaningful agreement on climate change were swiftly blown apart by the fiasco of Copenhagen.That conference showed just how western leaders are for understanding how China really works. The idea that, by crashing the meeting of major emerging economies, Obama could reach a last-minute deal with the Chinese prime minister to save the planet would have been laughable if it had not been tragic. Did the US president really think Wen Jiabao had any wriggle room to succumb to his charm and reason? Did he imagine that the prime minister would suddenly jettison 60 years of suspicion of the outside world to allow independent monitoring?Mark Lynas's much-remarked piece in the Guardian puts the blame squarely on Beijing, but takes no account of how the Chinese system actually operates, seemingly imagining it runs on western lines. The Chinese position would have been set out in advance and approved by the standing committee of the politburo. Wen could not deviate from that, even if he had been minded to do so. He may be prime minister but he ranks third in the standing committee and moves carefully. On such a crucial issue, he would be able to do absolutely nothing that might be seen as jeopardising the domestic economy; China accords importance to the environment but a good deal more to growth.In addition, several key Chinese leaders were out of Beijing at the time and this is a leadership that likes to have everybody in the room when decisions are made and doesn't believe in long-range teleconferences. So it is safe to assume that China was not in negotiating mode, and that, unless Beijing was being set up as the fall guy, Obama, Brown, Miliband et al should have know this, and negotiated accordingly. The same goes for the currency, human rights and, unfortunately for him, for Shaikh. It is also likely to be the case if trade disputes swell next year, as one must anticipate.That leads to an underlying element which, again, seems insufficiently appreciated by western governments. General Secretary Hu and Wen operate by consensus. They are careful bureaucrats who do not command an automatic majority in the nine-man standing committee. Gone are the days of Mao getting out of bed one afternoon and deciding on a major policy initiative or of Deng Xiaoping imposing himself on those who nominally held positions superior to him. That is, in a way, healthy, but it means inflexibility at the top. Hu and Wen have to deal with factions, lobbies and powerful state companies. For all the liberation of the goods market, the economy is still tightly controlled in key input areas, buttressing the power of entrenched interests. The Communist party knows it needs to reform itself but is terrified of the effect of doing so.All that is a recipe for caution. Not for the kind of reasoned flexibility and give-and-take which the west likes to make the basis for relationships between nations (however fallible this proves in practice). Repeating mantras about the need to revalue the yuan, respect human rights, join in independent monitoring or accept emission targets which would threaten the growth that provides the regime's prime legitimacy may be necessary for the west's own self-respect and defence of its own values. But the chances of getting results is razor-thin until a new policy context is evolved.", "tags": ["China", "US foreign policy", "Capital punishment", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "How not to handle China | Jonathan Fenby"},{"date": "2009-12-29T10:32:25Z", "country": "china", "content": "I'm sorry too that the Chinese have just executed Akmal Shaikh, an apparently mentally ill Briton. He was clearly an expendable drugs mule, cynically exploited by traffickers who are still alive and well today.But I'm also sorry about the international clamour to denounce China, which sounds at least as hypocritical and insensitive as the act itself. Can Gordon Brown and David Cameron \u2013 to name but two \u2013 hear what they sound like?Let's start with the basics. Most of us (not all) deplore the drugs trade \u2013 from cultivation to distribution and sale \u2013 which is illegal in most countries (not all) and has spawned a huge and lucrative global industry.Some think the \"cure'' \u2013 the worldwide campaign against the trade \u2013 worse than the disease since it underpins major criminal enterprises on all continents. It has long been the case, though I would personally hesitate to risk legalising it and hoping for the best.Different countries tackle the problem in different ways. China, which has a rising drugs problem as it enters the modern consumer era, is one of those which takes a tough line. As the Guardian's Q&A points out today it is one of the few crimes to attract a mandatory death sentence.Enter poor Akmal Shaikh, who seems to have gone off the rails in middle age after leading a quiet family life as a north London taxi driver. Someone who struck acquaintances as very odd after he emigrated to Poland with grandiose ideas, he falls into bad company which exploits his gullibility.So he ends up landing in Urumqi, northern China, in 2007 and being caught at the airport with 4kg of heroin in his luggage. He told police he knew nothing about it. It's a tragically familiar story and, in his case, it's probably true.In the wake of his execution the Chinese authorities sound quite angry at criticism of their judicial system. Shaikh had a fair trial, complete with interpreter, they say. He was deemed fit to plead.Mental illness? Ah, that's a tricky one. But it's easy to see how the Chinese might take a very different view of how it is defined. So do many jurisdictions \u2013 as we all know \u2013 on this and many other legal issues: \"self defence\", \"crimes of passion\", \"third degree homicide\", \"honour killings\", lots of scope for moral relativism in all of them.Reprieve and other admirable campaigns which fight for the rights of prisoners in foreign jurisdictions have the virtue of consistency. Thus they oppose the death penalty wherever it exists, including the US, where it was abolished as a \"cruel and unnatural punishment'' in 1972 \u2013 and restored in 1976 when the supreme court changed its mind.Though they are pretty half-hearted about it compared with China's 1,700 or so known executions (they are reported to sell body parts for medical use) a year, southern US states are keenest.As governors both George W Bush and Bill Clinton \u2013 whom so many of us admire \u2013 signed off on questionable executions of vulnerable, marginalised people like Akmal Shaikh. A high proportion of the 3,000 or so Americans on Death Row \u2013 few actually executed \u2013 are black. Britain? We last executed a man called Peter Allen at Walton jail on 13 August 1964 for murder  \u2013 three years before the final abolition of the death penalty.Not so long ago really (our last Etonian PM, Sir Alec Douglas-Home, was in No 10) and, as China's very smart UK ambassador has probably told Beijing, capital punishment still commands as much enthusiasm here 40 years later as it does in China, ie lots.So there's a sovereignty issue. China \u2013 like the US \u2013 has the right to pass and implement its own laws and governments, governments-in-waiting in Cameron's case, should pause before getting too mouthy. Apparently 27 representations were made to China by Britain over the past two years \u2013 mostly quietly, I assume, which is always the best way.But the execution took place during the Christmas news lull: hence the sudden high profile. Thank goodness Ivan Lewis, the junior foreign office minister put up to talk about it today, saidL \"I'm not going to make idle threats\" \u2013 or we might be starting 2010 going to war with China.Talking of which, the really toe-curling fact, of which neither Dr Gordon Brown with his PhD in history, nor David Cameron with his 1st in PPE should be ignorant, is Anglo-Chinese history.When Europeans started forcing the reclusive China of the late Ming and Qing dynasty to open its doors to trade in the 16th and 17th century the visitors wanted more Chinese goods \u2013 all that tea, silk and lovely porcelain \u2013 than the Chinese wanted of ours.Sounds familiar? What the Chinese would accept was silver, a better bet than the US dollars they now hold in such vast quantities. This was unsustainable and in the 19th century the British East India Company hit on the idea of importing Indian opium to China \u2013 though it was banned by imperial Chinese law.I hope you've spotted where I'm heading. If not here's Wiki's starter kit on the Opium Wars of 1839-42 and 1856-60 which culminated in the so-called \"unequal treaties\" and the eventual overthrow of the Qing in 1912.Result: China was forced to accept the trade with devastating social consequences. In fairness I should add that the stuff was legal in Britain at the time \u2013 as readers of Victorian novels can confirm. The Chinese governor Lin Zexu became a hero for opposing the trade \u2013 as did young William Gladstone at Westminster.All the same, it is a pretty shameful story. Perhaps it slipped your memory? It certainly hasn't slipped theirs and is still unravelling: they only got Hong Kong back in 1997 and have never rebuilt the burned Summer Palace at Beijing \u2013 their Windsor.So, one way or another, poor Akmal Shaikh was the wrong man in the wrong place. But China is likely to be impervious to lectures from Europeans on the morality of the drugs trade.As the world's rising power it's unlikely to be lectured anyway, but that's another story \u2013 one we'll rapidly have to get used to. No declaration of war this week, please Ivan.", "tags": ["Politics", "UK news", "China", "Gordon Brown", "David Cameron", "Foreign policy", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Why denouncing China is hypocritical| Michael White"},{"date": "2009-12-23T14:00:02Z", "country": "china", "content": "During the frantic final two days of negotiations at Copenhagen over the weekend, Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton set a clever trap for Chinese premier, Wen Jiabao. Having just announced that the US would establish and contribute to a $100bn international fund by 2020 to help poor nations cope with the challenge of climate change, they added a non-negotiable proviso: all major nations would first be required to commit their emissions reduction to a binding agreement and submit these reductions to \"transparent verification\".Everyone in the room knew that \"all major nations\" primarily meant China. From the beginning, China has steadfastly refused to accept outside monitoring and verification of its progress toward any promised targets. But the 11th-hour US proposal immediately isolated China. The onus was now on Beijing to agree to standards of \"transparent verification\". If it did not, poorer countries standing to benefit from the fund would blame China for breaking the deal.Clinton's proposal had cunningly undermined Beijing's leadership over the developing bloc of countries. In anger, Chinese officials responded that such demands were an insult to China and would be a violation of Chinese sovereignty and national interests. Wen had been outflanked and was angry, even leaving the conference centre and subsequently snubbing Obama in a couple of previously planned bilateral and multinational meetings involving the US president.Which raises the question: why the extreme response? China has long been engaging in a dangerous game of manipulating important economic numbers and concealing domestic commercial realities. Despite all its progress over 30 years, Beijing is afraid to shine too bright a light in dark places, and even more afraid that outsiders might be allowed to do so. In important respects, the government actually embraces opaqueness as a perceived advantage. The thought of \"transparent verification\" was seen as the thin end of the wedge, allowing outside experts broad authority to peer into the workings of middle China.Teams of international economists, scientists, inspectors and statisticians roaming China to gather information on carbon emissions and reduction initiatives would have been unprecedented. In promoting China, Beijing projects an image of order and competence to the world. In parts of its wealthier coastal cities, China is that. But these international teams would undoubtedly discover exactly how dysfunctional the heart of the country really is. They would see first hand and report back how China's 45 million local officials remain the most formidable obstacle to improving transparency in China's sprawling economic structure \u2013 protecting their turf, defending their privileges, arbitrarily enforcing the law, and when it comes to economic performance blatantly cooking the books. Beijing still wants to assure outsiders that it remains in charge even though in important respects it is not.This lack of accountability and transparency strikes at the heart of China's credibility in any global climate change agenda. Wen would not want foreign experts reporting to political masters in America and Europe that Beijing's capacity for compelling local officials and locally managed, state-controlled enterprises \u2013 some 120,000 companies and countless other subsidiaries \u2013 to implement climate change initiatives is extremely low. This would simply strengthen suspicions that decentralised China cannot actually honour future commitments despite promises that it intends to.Then there is the further problem of cheating in current and future carbon reduction schemes. Developed countries need to feel confident that incentives offered to developing countries to cut emissions (in both absolute terms and emissions relative to economic growth) can be verified. Indeed, earlier this month, the UN body in charge of the clean development mechanism \u2013 a proviso under the Kyoto protocol allowing developed countries to purchase carbon offsets for funding \"clean energy\" developments elsewhere \u2013 suspended approvals for dozens of Chinese windfarms over suspicions that China had held back the building of planned windfarms and deliberately lowered previously allocated subsidies to make the wind farms eligible for earning credits \u2013 industrial policies that would disqualify these farms from benefiting under the scheme. China has so far received carbon credits worth more than $1bn, which is almost half of the total issued under the UN-run programme.China's government has vigorously denied that it is attempting to illegitimately manipulate the scheme. But the point is that there is no system for independent and external verification; nor is Beijing proposing to allow one. Meanwhile, China had previously pledged that 15% (and possibly 20%) of its energy would come from renewable sources by 2020 and that special efforts would be made to close dirty power plants and impose world-class vehicle efficiency standards and proposed various other measures to cut emissions. Again, developed countries suspect that China will receive plaudits and concessions from any future carbon emissions regime without actually keeping its promises.Alas, given the desperation to announce a \"deal\", Obama backed down. The so-called \"Copenhagen accord\" merely compels developing nations to self-report their emissions every two years and allow outside scrutiny of the data. China is off the hook for the moment, but whether this is enough to satisfy the US Congress when deciding whether to approve any future binding agreement is another matter.", "tags": ["China", "US foreign policy", "Copenhagen climate change conference 2009", "Climate change", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Carbon offsetting", "Renewable energy", "Environment", "World news", "Global climate talks", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China fears climate change openness | John Lee"},{"date": "2009-11-23T09:08:27Z", "country": "china", "content": "A Chinese court has sentenced a veteran dissident convicted of spying to three years in prison.Huang Qi was convicted of illegally possessing state secrets by the Wuhou district court in the western city of Chengdu, his wife Zeng Li said by telephone.Zeng said no details were given about the charge, an ill-defined accusation often used by Communist leaders to clamp down on dissent and imprison activists.Huang was detained on 10 June 2008 after posting articles on his website criticising the government's response to the May 2008 earthquake in Sichuan province that killed about 90,000 people. Huang also spoke to foreign media about parents' criticism that their children had been crushed in badly built schools. The government has tried to suppress such complaints.Zeng said Huang was taken directly from the court without being allowed to speak. She believed he would appeal the sentence.Calls to the court and Huang's lawyer, Mo Shaoping, rang unanswered.Huang previously served a five-year prison sentence on subversion charges linked to politically sensitive articles posted on his website.Since his release in 2005 he had supported a wide range of causes, including families of those killed in the 1989 military crackdown on pro-democracy protests in Beijing and farmers involved in land disputes with authorities.", "tags": ["China", "Protest", "Human rights", "China earthquake", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Law", "Asia Pacific", "Earthquakes"], "title": "China jails earthquake activist"},{"date": "2009-10-22T18:02:34Z", "country": "china", "content": "Chinese authorities have carried out their first executions of Tibetans in connection with the deadly riots that swept Lhasa last year, according to exile groups.As the first reported judicial killings in the region for six years, the news has prompted overseas protests and concerns that proper legal procedures were not followed.The Chinese state media have yet to confirm the executions. However, the Tibetan Centre for Human Rights and Democracy, based in Dharamsala in northern India, said it had reports that they took place early on Tuesday morning.It identified three of the executed Tibetans as two men \u2013 Lobsang Gyaltsen and Loyak \u2013 and a woman named Penkyi. The fourth victim was not named.The Lhasa intermediate people's court sentenced the two men to death on charges of arson in April, according to Xinhua news agency reports at the time. Under Chinese law, death penalty cases should be reviewed by the supreme court.The Dharamsala-based group said the body of Lobsang Gyaltsen had been handed to his family, while Loyak's ashes were given to his relatives.The director of Free Tibet, Stephanie Brigden, said the executions were an outrage. \"It is impossible to have any confidence that even the most basic legal norms were observed before the Chinese state sanctioned and carried out the killing of these four Tibetans,\" she said.London-based Tibetan groups called for a vigil outside the Chinese embassy. Free Tibet said the executions, which came just weeks after a Foreign Office minister, Ivan Lewis, made a rare trip to Lhasa, should prompt the British government to rethink the way it engages with China over the region.Labour MP Kate Hoey has tabled an early day motion calling for an inquiry into the UK government's failure to secure human rights improvements in Tibet.A US congressional commission will publish a study of Tibet next week which finds Chinese officials are strengthening efforts to separate Tibetan Buddhists from the Dalai Lama, and preparing to select his successor. However the study also notes that the Dalai Lama's willingness to restrict discussions only to areas that China considers part of Tibet have opened up an unprecedented opportunity for progress.In a separate case, Reporters Without Borders called for the release of three Tibetans who have been held since 1 October for allegedly sending information about Tibet to contacts abroad via the internet.It said the three have not been permitted to contact their families during detentions.\"The internet is monitored, censored and manipulated more in Tibet than in other Chinese provinces,\" Reporters Without Borders said. \"Despite the risks, Tibetan internet users continue to transmit information, especially to the diaspora and human rights groups. It is deplorable that the Chinese police devote so much energy to identifying and arresting ordinary internet users.\"", "tags": ["Tibet", "World news", "China", "Human rights", "Law", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China executes Tibetan protesters"},{"date": "2009-12-30T00:05:23Z", "country": "china", "content": "In a nasty diplomatic dance to the death, Britain and China have been exchanging carefully calculated protests this week over the fate of Akmal Shaikh. Neither side can have expected their words to change anything. British ministers and opposition leaders have expressed appropriate and genuine outrage at the poor man's judicial killing. China, in turn, has shrugged off complaints as unjustified interference. \"No one has the right to comment on China's judicial sovereignty,\" said a representative of the Chinese foreign ministry yesterday.That latter statement is of course nonsense. Britain has a duty to express horror at the execution of one of its citizens, especially someone as confused and unwell as the unfortunate Mr Shaikh, who seems to have been lured into smuggling without knowing what he was doing. The serious criminals are the people who used him, and people around the world like him, as drug mules \u2013 but they are often rich enough, or hidden enough, to escape. That, sadly, was not the case with Mr Shaikh, who died on Tuesday morning amid disingenuous Chinese claims that the 4,030 grams of heroin he smuggled was \"enough to cause 26,800 deaths\".In the same statement, issued on Christmas Eve, the Chinese embassy in London made a pointed reference to the country's \"bitter memory of drug problems in history\". Not that long ago, Britain fought wars to keep the opium trade open. China may well feel resentment at being lectured about drugs by a power that once supplied them. But the country ought to listen. Protests about China's human rights record are not intended to weaken the country, or humiliate it, but to protect its citizens. China would be more respected in the world if it did not sustain such a casual approach to trying and executing its people. Much about what happens is secret, but Amnesty International believes that at least 7,003 people were sentenced to death in China last year, and at least 1,718 were executed. That is more industrialised slaughter than justice.Some argue that external pressure will only do harm. The world needs Chinese co-operation to overcome the financial crisis and the environmental one. Whatever the truth behind the outcome of the Copenhagen summit, an obstructive China is in a position to do great harm, and a co-operative one great good. That, though, should not stop other countries speaking out. In the last years of British rule in Hong Kong, so-called old China hands in the Foreign Office deplored Chris Patten's brave attempt to bring democracy to the colony. Fiery words were exchanged. But it made Hong Kong a better place. Respect for Chinese power is no reason to stay silent when China is in the wrong.", "tags": ["Capital punishment", "China", "UK news", "Politics", "Human rights", "Foreign policy", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Britain and China: Death deplored"},{"date": "2009-12-30T19:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "What is becoming ever more clear as this year rattles to an end is that the west has no idea how to handle China. Since the relationship of the People's Republic will be a key factor in the year (and many more years) ahead, that makes this a core question for the Obama administration and Europe \u2013 and, closer to the mainland, for India and Japan as well. But there still seems to be an almost childish reluctance in the west to accept China for what it is, whatever one may think of what it is.It might be nice if China was more like us, but it isn't going to be. Expecting it to fit into the paradigm set by the west is not only futile but positively dangerous. The sooner governments start to work out a meaningful China policy rather than depending on wishful thinking, the better. It would make a good New year's resolution. But I'm not holding my breath.The sad case of Akmal Shaikh, the London man executed in China on drug smuggling charges provides the latest example of how little the conventional approach to China on decent humanitarian grounds yields, just as concern abroad about the fate of Charter 08 dissident Liu Xiaobo did nothing to prevent him being sentenced to 11 years in jail on Christmas Day. China has reacted indignantly to the protests about Shaikh. The argument that China has made a mockery of justice has been made on Cif by Clive Stafford Smith. Less convincingly, we have had the descant of a reminder of the opium wars, as if Shaikh was a reincarnation of the East India Company, and relativists trotting out the tired old fallacy that human rights abuses in the west and executions in the US disbar us from protesting at the way the trial was conducted.Behind this froth, what is plain is that China has once again asserted its determination to protect its own sovereignty whatever the issue, and is intent on doing things its way. Given its economic progress in the past three decades and the immediate effect of its huge pump-priming over the past 12 months in restoring growth (even if the second half of next year may prove more problematic), the leadership and the population feel pretty good about themselves. They are in no mood to take lessons, moral or otherwise, from the west.In this context, the Shaikh case fits into a string of scratchy non-meetings of mind between China and the west over the last couple of months.First there has been the long-running issue of the under-valuation of the Chinese currency. The case for appreciation of the yuan is undeniable. Equally undeniable is that Beijing is going to do no such thing until its exports rise back to their pre-crisis levels. Even then it has large amount of excess capacity to keep employed, and tens of millions of workers to provide jobs for when the current infrastructure programme starts to come to an end in the second half of 2010. So, however well-founded the arguments put it by the treasury department in Washington or the European Central Bank, the leadership stands firm.Then we had the spectacle of Obama's visit to China, during which his \"town hall\" meeting in Shanghai was transmitted only by one local television station, and during which the Chinese arranged a programme for him that was heavy on tourism. Yes, it ended with a lengthy list of general agreements to co-operate and assurances that the basis was being laid for long-term relationship. But the beef was missing, and US briefings that the two sides had reached meaningful agreement on climate change were swiftly blown apart by the fiasco of Copenhagen.That conference showed just how western leaders are for understanding how China really works. The idea that, by crashing the meeting of major emerging economies, Obama could reach a last-minute deal with the Chinese prime minister to save the planet would have been laughable if it had not been tragic. Did the US president really think Wen Jiabao had any wriggle room to succumb to his charm and reason? Did he imagine that the prime minister would suddenly jettison 60 years of suspicion of the outside world to allow independent monitoring?Mark Lynas's much-remarked piece in the Guardian puts the blame squarely on Beijing, but takes no account of how the Chinese system actually operates, seemingly imagining it runs on western lines. The Chinese position would have been set out in advance and approved by the standing committee of the politburo. Wen could not deviate from that, even if he had been minded to do so. He may be prime minister but he ranks third in the standing committee and moves carefully. On such a crucial issue, he would be able to do absolutely nothing that might be seen as jeopardising the domestic economy; China accords importance to the environment but a good deal more to growth.In addition, several key Chinese leaders were out of Beijing at the time and this is a leadership that likes to have everybody in the room when decisions are made and doesn't believe in long-range teleconferences. So it is safe to assume that China was not in negotiating mode, and that, unless Beijing was being set up as the fall guy, Obama, Brown, Miliband et al should have know this, and negotiated accordingly. The same goes for the currency, human rights and, unfortunately for him, for Shaikh. It is also likely to be the case if trade disputes swell next year, as one must anticipate.That leads to an underlying element which, again, seems insufficiently appreciated by western governments. General Secretary Hu and Wen operate by consensus. They are careful bureaucrats who do not command an automatic majority in the nine-man standing committee. Gone are the days of Mao getting out of bed one afternoon and deciding on a major policy initiative or of Deng Xiaoping imposing himself on those who nominally held positions superior to him. That is, in a way, healthy, but it means inflexibility at the top. Hu and Wen have to deal with factions, lobbies and powerful state companies. For all the liberation of the goods market, the economy is still tightly controlled in key input areas, buttressing the power of entrenched interests. The Communist party knows it needs to reform itself but is terrified of the effect of doing so.All that is a recipe for caution. Not for the kind of reasoned flexibility and give-and-take which the west likes to make the basis for relationships between nations (however fallible this proves in practice). Repeating mantras about the need to revalue the yuan, respect human rights, join in independent monitoring or accept emission targets which would threaten the growth that provides the regime's prime legitimacy may be necessary for the west's own self-respect and defence of its own values. But the chances of getting results is razor-thin until a new policy context is evolved.", "tags": ["China", "US foreign policy", "Capital punishment", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "How not to handle China | Jonathan Fenby"},{"date": "2009-12-29T10:32:25Z", "country": "china", "content": "I'm sorry too that the Chinese have just executed Akmal Shaikh, an apparently mentally ill Briton. He was clearly an expendable drugs mule, cynically exploited by traffickers who are still alive and well today.But I'm also sorry about the international clamour to denounce China, which sounds at least as hypocritical and insensitive as the act itself. Can Gordon Brown and David Cameron \u2013 to name but two \u2013 hear what they sound like?Let's start with the basics. Most of us (not all) deplore the drugs trade \u2013 from cultivation to distribution and sale \u2013 which is illegal in most countries (not all) and has spawned a huge and lucrative global industry.Some think the \"cure'' \u2013 the worldwide campaign against the trade \u2013 worse than the disease since it underpins major criminal enterprises on all continents. It has long been the case, though I would personally hesitate to risk legalising it and hoping for the best.Different countries tackle the problem in different ways. China, which has a rising drugs problem as it enters the modern consumer era, is one of those which takes a tough line. As the Guardian's Q&A points out today it is one of the few crimes to attract a mandatory death sentence.Enter poor Akmal Shaikh, who seems to have gone off the rails in middle age after leading a quiet family life as a north London taxi driver. Someone who struck acquaintances as very odd after he emigrated to Poland with grandiose ideas, he falls into bad company which exploits his gullibility.So he ends up landing in Urumqi, northern China, in 2007 and being caught at the airport with 4kg of heroin in his luggage. He told police he knew nothing about it. It's a tragically familiar story and, in his case, it's probably true.In the wake of his execution the Chinese authorities sound quite angry at criticism of their judicial system. Shaikh had a fair trial, complete with interpreter, they say. He was deemed fit to plead.Mental illness? Ah, that's a tricky one. But it's easy to see how the Chinese might take a very different view of how it is defined. So do many jurisdictions \u2013 as we all know \u2013 on this and many other legal issues: \"self defence\", \"crimes of passion\", \"third degree homicide\", \"honour killings\", lots of scope for moral relativism in all of them.Reprieve and other admirable campaigns which fight for the rights of prisoners in foreign jurisdictions have the virtue of consistency. Thus they oppose the death penalty wherever it exists, including the US, where it was abolished as a \"cruel and unnatural punishment'' in 1972 \u2013 and restored in 1976 when the supreme court changed its mind.Though they are pretty half-hearted about it compared with China's 1,700 or so known executions (they are reported to sell body parts for medical use) a year, southern US states are keenest.As governors both George W Bush and Bill Clinton \u2013 whom so many of us admire \u2013 signed off on questionable executions of vulnerable, marginalised people like Akmal Shaikh. A high proportion of the 3,000 or so Americans on Death Row \u2013 few actually executed \u2013 are black. Britain? We last executed a man called Peter Allen at Walton jail on 13 August 1964 for murder  \u2013 three years before the final abolition of the death penalty.Not so long ago really (our last Etonian PM, Sir Alec Douglas-Home, was in No 10) and, as China's very smart UK ambassador has probably told Beijing, capital punishment still commands as much enthusiasm here 40 years later as it does in China, ie lots.So there's a sovereignty issue. China \u2013 like the US \u2013 has the right to pass and implement its own laws and governments, governments-in-waiting in Cameron's case, should pause before getting too mouthy. Apparently 27 representations were made to China by Britain over the past two years \u2013 mostly quietly, I assume, which is always the best way.But the execution took place during the Christmas news lull: hence the sudden high profile. Thank goodness Ivan Lewis, the junior foreign office minister put up to talk about it today, saidL \"I'm not going to make idle threats\" \u2013 or we might be starting 2010 going to war with China.Talking of which, the really toe-curling fact, of which neither Dr Gordon Brown with his PhD in history, nor David Cameron with his 1st in PPE should be ignorant, is Anglo-Chinese history.When Europeans started forcing the reclusive China of the late Ming and Qing dynasty to open its doors to trade in the 16th and 17th century the visitors wanted more Chinese goods \u2013 all that tea, silk and lovely porcelain \u2013 than the Chinese wanted of ours.Sounds familiar? What the Chinese would accept was silver, a better bet than the US dollars they now hold in such vast quantities. This was unsustainable and in the 19th century the British East India Company hit on the idea of importing Indian opium to China \u2013 though it was banned by imperial Chinese law.I hope you've spotted where I'm heading. If not here's Wiki's starter kit on the Opium Wars of 1839-42 and 1856-60 which culminated in the so-called \"unequal treaties\" and the eventual overthrow of the Qing in 1912.Result: China was forced to accept the trade with devastating social consequences. In fairness I should add that the stuff was legal in Britain at the time \u2013 as readers of Victorian novels can confirm. The Chinese governor Lin Zexu became a hero for opposing the trade \u2013 as did young William Gladstone at Westminster.All the same, it is a pretty shameful story. Perhaps it slipped your memory? It certainly hasn't slipped theirs and is still unravelling: they only got Hong Kong back in 1997 and have never rebuilt the burned Summer Palace at Beijing \u2013 their Windsor.So, one way or another, poor Akmal Shaikh was the wrong man in the wrong place. But China is likely to be impervious to lectures from Europeans on the morality of the drugs trade.As the world's rising power it's unlikely to be lectured anyway, but that's another story \u2013 one we'll rapidly have to get used to. No declaration of war this week, please Ivan.", "tags": ["Politics", "UK news", "China", "Gordon Brown", "David Cameron", "Foreign policy", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Why denouncing China is hypocritical| Michael White"},{"date": "2009-12-23T14:00:02Z", "country": "china", "content": "During the frantic final two days of negotiations at Copenhagen over the weekend, Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton set a clever trap for Chinese premier, Wen Jiabao. Having just announced that the US would establish and contribute to a $100bn international fund by 2020 to help poor nations cope with the challenge of climate change, they added a non-negotiable proviso: all major nations would first be required to commit their emissions reduction to a binding agreement and submit these reductions to \"transparent verification\".Everyone in the room knew that \"all major nations\" primarily meant China. From the beginning, China has steadfastly refused to accept outside monitoring and verification of its progress toward any promised targets. But the 11th-hour US proposal immediately isolated China. The onus was now on Beijing to agree to standards of \"transparent verification\". If it did not, poorer countries standing to benefit from the fund would blame China for breaking the deal.Clinton's proposal had cunningly undermined Beijing's leadership over the developing bloc of countries. In anger, Chinese officials responded that such demands were an insult to China and would be a violation of Chinese sovereignty and national interests. Wen had been outflanked and was angry, even leaving the conference centre and subsequently snubbing Obama in a couple of previously planned bilateral and multinational meetings involving the US president.Which raises the question: why the extreme response? China has long been engaging in a dangerous game of manipulating important economic numbers and concealing domestic commercial realities. Despite all its progress over 30 years, Beijing is afraid to shine too bright a light in dark places, and even more afraid that outsiders might be allowed to do so. In important respects, the government actually embraces opaqueness as a perceived advantage. The thought of \"transparent verification\" was seen as the thin end of the wedge, allowing outside experts broad authority to peer into the workings of middle China.Teams of international economists, scientists, inspectors and statisticians roaming China to gather information on carbon emissions and reduction initiatives would have been unprecedented. In promoting China, Beijing projects an image of order and competence to the world. In parts of its wealthier coastal cities, China is that. But these international teams would undoubtedly discover exactly how dysfunctional the heart of the country really is. They would see first hand and report back how China's 45 million local officials remain the most formidable obstacle to improving transparency in China's sprawling economic structure \u2013 protecting their turf, defending their privileges, arbitrarily enforcing the law, and when it comes to economic performance blatantly cooking the books. Beijing still wants to assure outsiders that it remains in charge even though in important respects it is not.This lack of accountability and transparency strikes at the heart of China's credibility in any global climate change agenda. Wen would not want foreign experts reporting to political masters in America and Europe that Beijing's capacity for compelling local officials and locally managed, state-controlled enterprises \u2013 some 120,000 companies and countless other subsidiaries \u2013 to implement climate change initiatives is extremely low. This would simply strengthen suspicions that decentralised China cannot actually honour future commitments despite promises that it intends to.Then there is the further problem of cheating in current and future carbon reduction schemes. Developed countries need to feel confident that incentives offered to developing countries to cut emissions (in both absolute terms and emissions relative to economic growth) can be verified. Indeed, earlier this month, the UN body in charge of the clean development mechanism \u2013 a proviso under the Kyoto protocol allowing developed countries to purchase carbon offsets for funding \"clean energy\" developments elsewhere \u2013 suspended approvals for dozens of Chinese windfarms over suspicions that China had held back the building of planned windfarms and deliberately lowered previously allocated subsidies to make the wind farms eligible for earning credits \u2013 industrial policies that would disqualify these farms from benefiting under the scheme. China has so far received carbon credits worth more than $1bn, which is almost half of the total issued under the UN-run programme.China's government has vigorously denied that it is attempting to illegitimately manipulate the scheme. But the point is that there is no system for independent and external verification; nor is Beijing proposing to allow one. Meanwhile, China had previously pledged that 15% (and possibly 20%) of its energy would come from renewable sources by 2020 and that special efforts would be made to close dirty power plants and impose world-class vehicle efficiency standards and proposed various other measures to cut emissions. Again, developed countries suspect that China will receive plaudits and concessions from any future carbon emissions regime without actually keeping its promises.Alas, given the desperation to announce a \"deal\", Obama backed down. The so-called \"Copenhagen accord\" merely compels developing nations to self-report their emissions every two years and allow outside scrutiny of the data. China is off the hook for the moment, but whether this is enough to satisfy the US Congress when deciding whether to approve any future binding agreement is another matter.", "tags": ["China", "US foreign policy", "Copenhagen climate change conference 2009", "Climate change", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Carbon offsetting", "Renewable energy", "Environment", "World news", "Global climate talks", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China fears climate change openness | John Lee"},{"date": "2009-11-27T07:46:17Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has executed two men for abducting and selling 15 children, many of whom have yet to be reunited with their families, state media reported today.Thousands of children go missing each year in China, although authorities have recently stepped up efforts to tackle the problem. The cultural preference for male heirs and birth control restrictions have created a demand for baby boys, but experts say both sexes are abducted as labour or to beg for gangs, and girls are also taken as wives for unwed men.Hu Minghua, 55, was convicted of kidnapping and selling nine children between 1999 and 2005, the state news agency Xinhua reported, citing a statement from the supreme people's court.Five of the children, all boys now aged from three to six, have been returned to their families, but the parents of the remaining four have yet to be found.Su Binde, 27, was convicted of abducting six children in 2005 and 2006. But while five were rescued by police, the sixth is still missing.Su was also convicted of leading six robberies and twelve thefts and kidnapping a taxi driver who escaped but died 10 days later, according to a court statement.Both men were executed yesterday morning, Xinhua said. They were both detained in 2006.Parents have often complained that the authorities have done little to help when their children have gone missing.But earlier this year Chinese police launched a crackdown on the trafficking of women and children. They say they have rescued around 2,000 children since the campaign began and state media have reported on the ensuing rescues, arrests and in some cases, reunions.In October, the ministry of public security set up a website to reunite dozens of rescued but unidentified children with their families. It has also created a national DNA database. Xinhua said 1,714 people were punished for abducting and trafficking children in the first 10 months of the year, citing figures from the supreme court.The court's spokesman Wang Shaonan said the number of cases had risen 11.25% compared with the same period last year, to 1,107 trials.He warned that child trafficking was on the rise and that gangs were becoming more organised.", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China executes two child traffickers"},{"date": "2009-11-23T09:08:27Z", "country": "china", "content": "A Chinese court has sentenced a veteran dissident convicted of spying to three years in prison.Huang Qi was convicted of illegally possessing state secrets by the Wuhou district court in the western city of Chengdu, his wife Zeng Li said by telephone.Zeng said no details were given about the charge, an ill-defined accusation often used by Communist leaders to clamp down on dissent and imprison activists.Huang was detained on 10 June 2008 after posting articles on his website criticising the government's response to the May 2008 earthquake in Sichuan province that killed about 90,000 people. Huang also spoke to foreign media about parents' criticism that their children had been crushed in badly built schools. The government has tried to suppress such complaints.Zeng said Huang was taken directly from the court without being allowed to speak. She believed he would appeal the sentence.Calls to the court and Huang's lawyer, Mo Shaoping, rang unanswered.Huang previously served a five-year prison sentence on subversion charges linked to politically sensitive articles posted on his website.Since his release in 2005 he had supported a wide range of causes, including families of those killed in the 1989 military crackdown on pro-democracy protests in Beijing and farmers involved in land disputes with authorities.", "tags": ["China", "Protest", "Human rights", "China earthquake", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Law", "Asia Pacific", "Earthquakes"], "title": "China jails earthquake activist"},{"date": "2009-10-22T18:02:34Z", "country": "china", "content": "Chinese authorities have carried out their first executions of Tibetans in connection with the deadly riots that swept Lhasa last year, according to exile groups.As the first reported judicial killings in the region for six years, the news has prompted overseas protests and concerns that proper legal procedures were not followed.The Chinese state media have yet to confirm the executions. However, the Tibetan Centre for Human Rights and Democracy, based in Dharamsala in northern India, said it had reports that they took place early on Tuesday morning.It identified three of the executed Tibetans as two men \u2013 Lobsang Gyaltsen and Loyak \u2013 and a woman named Penkyi. The fourth victim was not named.The Lhasa intermediate people's court sentenced the two men to death on charges of arson in April, according to Xinhua news agency reports at the time. Under Chinese law, death penalty cases should be reviewed by the supreme court.The Dharamsala-based group said the body of Lobsang Gyaltsen had been handed to his family, while Loyak's ashes were given to his relatives.The director of Free Tibet, Stephanie Brigden, said the executions were an outrage. \"It is impossible to have any confidence that even the most basic legal norms were observed before the Chinese state sanctioned and carried out the killing of these four Tibetans,\" she said.London-based Tibetan groups called for a vigil outside the Chinese embassy. Free Tibet said the executions, which came just weeks after a Foreign Office minister, Ivan Lewis, made a rare trip to Lhasa, should prompt the British government to rethink the way it engages with China over the region.Labour MP Kate Hoey has tabled an early day motion calling for an inquiry into the UK government's failure to secure human rights improvements in Tibet.A US congressional commission will publish a study of Tibet next week which finds Chinese officials are strengthening efforts to separate Tibetan Buddhists from the Dalai Lama, and preparing to select his successor. However the study also notes that the Dalai Lama's willingness to restrict discussions only to areas that China considers part of Tibet have opened up an unprecedented opportunity for progress.In a separate case, Reporters Without Borders called for the release of three Tibetans who have been held since 1 October for allegedly sending information about Tibet to contacts abroad via the internet.It said the three have not been permitted to contact their families during detentions.\"The internet is monitored, censored and manipulated more in Tibet than in other Chinese provinces,\" Reporters Without Borders said. \"Despite the risks, Tibetan internet users continue to transmit information, especially to the diaspora and human rights groups. It is deplorable that the Chinese police devote so much energy to identifying and arresting ordinary internet users.\"", "tags": ["Tibet", "World news", "China", "Human rights", "Law", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China executes Tibetan protesters"},{"date": "2009-12-30T00:05:23Z", "country": "china", "content": "In a nasty diplomatic dance to the death, Britain and China have been exchanging carefully calculated protests this week over the fate of Akmal Shaikh. Neither side can have expected their words to change anything. British ministers and opposition leaders have expressed appropriate and genuine outrage at the poor man's judicial killing. China, in turn, has shrugged off complaints as unjustified interference. \"No one has the right to comment on China's judicial sovereignty,\" said a representative of the Chinese foreign ministry yesterday.That latter statement is of course nonsense. Britain has a duty to express horror at the execution of one of its citizens, especially someone as confused and unwell as the unfortunate Mr Shaikh, who seems to have been lured into smuggling without knowing what he was doing. The serious criminals are the people who used him, and people around the world like him, as drug mules \u2013 but they are often rich enough, or hidden enough, to escape. That, sadly, was not the case with Mr Shaikh, who died on Tuesday morning amid disingenuous Chinese claims that the 4,030 grams of heroin he smuggled was \"enough to cause 26,800 deaths\".In the same statement, issued on Christmas Eve, the Chinese embassy in London made a pointed reference to the country's \"bitter memory of drug problems in history\". Not that long ago, Britain fought wars to keep the opium trade open. China may well feel resentment at being lectured about drugs by a power that once supplied them. But the country ought to listen. Protests about China's human rights record are not intended to weaken the country, or humiliate it, but to protect its citizens. China would be more respected in the world if it did not sustain such a casual approach to trying and executing its people. Much about what happens is secret, but Amnesty International believes that at least 7,003 people were sentenced to death in China last year, and at least 1,718 were executed. That is more industrialised slaughter than justice.Some argue that external pressure will only do harm. The world needs Chinese co-operation to overcome the financial crisis and the environmental one. Whatever the truth behind the outcome of the Copenhagen summit, an obstructive China is in a position to do great harm, and a co-operative one great good. That, though, should not stop other countries speaking out. In the last years of British rule in Hong Kong, so-called old China hands in the Foreign Office deplored Chris Patten's brave attempt to bring democracy to the colony. Fiery words were exchanged. But it made Hong Kong a better place. Respect for Chinese power is no reason to stay silent when China is in the wrong.", "tags": ["Capital punishment", "China", "UK news", "Politics", "Human rights", "Foreign policy", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Britain and China: Death deplored"},{"date": "2009-12-30T19:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "What is becoming ever more clear as this year rattles to an end is that the west has no idea how to handle China. Since the relationship of the People's Republic will be a key factor in the year (and many more years) ahead, that makes this a core question for the Obama administration and Europe \u2013 and, closer to the mainland, for India and Japan as well. But there still seems to be an almost childish reluctance in the west to accept China for what it is, whatever one may think of what it is.It might be nice if China was more like us, but it isn't going to be. Expecting it to fit into the paradigm set by the west is not only futile but positively dangerous. The sooner governments start to work out a meaningful China policy rather than depending on wishful thinking, the better. It would make a good New year's resolution. But I'm not holding my breath.The sad case of Akmal Shaikh, the London man executed in China on drug smuggling charges provides the latest example of how little the conventional approach to China on decent humanitarian grounds yields, just as concern abroad about the fate of Charter 08 dissident Liu Xiaobo did nothing to prevent him being sentenced to 11 years in jail on Christmas Day. China has reacted indignantly to the protests about Shaikh. The argument that China has made a mockery of justice has been made on Cif by Clive Stafford Smith. Less convincingly, we have had the descant of a reminder of the opium wars, as if Shaikh was a reincarnation of the East India Company, and relativists trotting out the tired old fallacy that human rights abuses in the west and executions in the US disbar us from protesting at the way the trial was conducted.Behind this froth, what is plain is that China has once again asserted its determination to protect its own sovereignty whatever the issue, and is intent on doing things its way. Given its economic progress in the past three decades and the immediate effect of its huge pump-priming over the past 12 months in restoring growth (even if the second half of next year may prove more problematic), the leadership and the population feel pretty good about themselves. They are in no mood to take lessons, moral or otherwise, from the west.In this context, the Shaikh case fits into a string of scratchy non-meetings of mind between China and the west over the last couple of months.First there has been the long-running issue of the under-valuation of the Chinese currency. The case for appreciation of the yuan is undeniable. Equally undeniable is that Beijing is going to do no such thing until its exports rise back to their pre-crisis levels. Even then it has large amount of excess capacity to keep employed, and tens of millions of workers to provide jobs for when the current infrastructure programme starts to come to an end in the second half of 2010. So, however well-founded the arguments put it by the treasury department in Washington or the European Central Bank, the leadership stands firm.Then we had the spectacle of Obama's visit to China, during which his \"town hall\" meeting in Shanghai was transmitted only by one local television station, and during which the Chinese arranged a programme for him that was heavy on tourism. Yes, it ended with a lengthy list of general agreements to co-operate and assurances that the basis was being laid for long-term relationship. But the beef was missing, and US briefings that the two sides had reached meaningful agreement on climate change were swiftly blown apart by the fiasco of Copenhagen.That conference showed just how western leaders are for understanding how China really works. The idea that, by crashing the meeting of major emerging economies, Obama could reach a last-minute deal with the Chinese prime minister to save the planet would have been laughable if it had not been tragic. Did the US president really think Wen Jiabao had any wriggle room to succumb to his charm and reason? Did he imagine that the prime minister would suddenly jettison 60 years of suspicion of the outside world to allow independent monitoring?Mark Lynas's much-remarked piece in the Guardian puts the blame squarely on Beijing, but takes no account of how the Chinese system actually operates, seemingly imagining it runs on western lines. The Chinese position would have been set out in advance and approved by the standing committee of the politburo. Wen could not deviate from that, even if he had been minded to do so. He may be prime minister but he ranks third in the standing committee and moves carefully. On such a crucial issue, he would be able to do absolutely nothing that might be seen as jeopardising the domestic economy; China accords importance to the environment but a good deal more to growth.In addition, several key Chinese leaders were out of Beijing at the time and this is a leadership that likes to have everybody in the room when decisions are made and doesn't believe in long-range teleconferences. So it is safe to assume that China was not in negotiating mode, and that, unless Beijing was being set up as the fall guy, Obama, Brown, Miliband et al should have know this, and negotiated accordingly. The same goes for the currency, human rights and, unfortunately for him, for Shaikh. It is also likely to be the case if trade disputes swell next year, as one must anticipate.That leads to an underlying element which, again, seems insufficiently appreciated by western governments. General Secretary Hu and Wen operate by consensus. They are careful bureaucrats who do not command an automatic majority in the nine-man standing committee. Gone are the days of Mao getting out of bed one afternoon and deciding on a major policy initiative or of Deng Xiaoping imposing himself on those who nominally held positions superior to him. That is, in a way, healthy, but it means inflexibility at the top. Hu and Wen have to deal with factions, lobbies and powerful state companies. For all the liberation of the goods market, the economy is still tightly controlled in key input areas, buttressing the power of entrenched interests. The Communist party knows it needs to reform itself but is terrified of the effect of doing so.All that is a recipe for caution. Not for the kind of reasoned flexibility and give-and-take which the west likes to make the basis for relationships between nations (however fallible this proves in practice). Repeating mantras about the need to revalue the yuan, respect human rights, join in independent monitoring or accept emission targets which would threaten the growth that provides the regime's prime legitimacy may be necessary for the west's own self-respect and defence of its own values. But the chances of getting results is razor-thin until a new policy context is evolved.", "tags": ["China", "US foreign policy", "Capital punishment", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "How not to handle China | Jonathan Fenby"},{"date": "2009-12-29T10:32:25Z", "country": "china", "content": "I'm sorry too that the Chinese have just executed Akmal Shaikh, an apparently mentally ill Briton. He was clearly an expendable drugs mule, cynically exploited by traffickers who are still alive and well today.But I'm also sorry about the international clamour to denounce China, which sounds at least as hypocritical and insensitive as the act itself. Can Gordon Brown and David Cameron \u2013 to name but two \u2013 hear what they sound like?Let's start with the basics. Most of us (not all) deplore the drugs trade \u2013 from cultivation to distribution and sale \u2013 which is illegal in most countries (not all) and has spawned a huge and lucrative global industry.Some think the \"cure'' \u2013 the worldwide campaign against the trade \u2013 worse than the disease since it underpins major criminal enterprises on all continents. It has long been the case, though I would personally hesitate to risk legalising it and hoping for the best.Different countries tackle the problem in different ways. China, which has a rising drugs problem as it enters the modern consumer era, is one of those which takes a tough line. As the Guardian's Q&A points out today it is one of the few crimes to attract a mandatory death sentence.Enter poor Akmal Shaikh, who seems to have gone off the rails in middle age after leading a quiet family life as a north London taxi driver. Someone who struck acquaintances as very odd after he emigrated to Poland with grandiose ideas, he falls into bad company which exploits his gullibility.So he ends up landing in Urumqi, northern China, in 2007 and being caught at the airport with 4kg of heroin in his luggage. He told police he knew nothing about it. It's a tragically familiar story and, in his case, it's probably true.In the wake of his execution the Chinese authorities sound quite angry at criticism of their judicial system. Shaikh had a fair trial, complete with interpreter, they say. He was deemed fit to plead.Mental illness? Ah, that's a tricky one. But it's easy to see how the Chinese might take a very different view of how it is defined. So do many jurisdictions \u2013 as we all know \u2013 on this and many other legal issues: \"self defence\", \"crimes of passion\", \"third degree homicide\", \"honour killings\", lots of scope for moral relativism in all of them.Reprieve and other admirable campaigns which fight for the rights of prisoners in foreign jurisdictions have the virtue of consistency. Thus they oppose the death penalty wherever it exists, including the US, where it was abolished as a \"cruel and unnatural punishment'' in 1972 \u2013 and restored in 1976 when the supreme court changed its mind.Though they are pretty half-hearted about it compared with China's 1,700 or so known executions (they are reported to sell body parts for medical use) a year, southern US states are keenest.As governors both George W Bush and Bill Clinton \u2013 whom so many of us admire \u2013 signed off on questionable executions of vulnerable, marginalised people like Akmal Shaikh. A high proportion of the 3,000 or so Americans on Death Row \u2013 few actually executed \u2013 are black. Britain? We last executed a man called Peter Allen at Walton jail on 13 August 1964 for murder  \u2013 three years before the final abolition of the death penalty.Not so long ago really (our last Etonian PM, Sir Alec Douglas-Home, was in No 10) and, as China's very smart UK ambassador has probably told Beijing, capital punishment still commands as much enthusiasm here 40 years later as it does in China, ie lots.So there's a sovereignty issue. China \u2013 like the US \u2013 has the right to pass and implement its own laws and governments, governments-in-waiting in Cameron's case, should pause before getting too mouthy. Apparently 27 representations were made to China by Britain over the past two years \u2013 mostly quietly, I assume, which is always the best way.But the execution took place during the Christmas news lull: hence the sudden high profile. Thank goodness Ivan Lewis, the junior foreign office minister put up to talk about it today, saidL \"I'm not going to make idle threats\" \u2013 or we might be starting 2010 going to war with China.Talking of which, the really toe-curling fact, of which neither Dr Gordon Brown with his PhD in history, nor David Cameron with his 1st in PPE should be ignorant, is Anglo-Chinese history.When Europeans started forcing the reclusive China of the late Ming and Qing dynasty to open its doors to trade in the 16th and 17th century the visitors wanted more Chinese goods \u2013 all that tea, silk and lovely porcelain \u2013 than the Chinese wanted of ours.Sounds familiar? What the Chinese would accept was silver, a better bet than the US dollars they now hold in such vast quantities. This was unsustainable and in the 19th century the British East India Company hit on the idea of importing Indian opium to China \u2013 though it was banned by imperial Chinese law.I hope you've spotted where I'm heading. If not here's Wiki's starter kit on the Opium Wars of 1839-42 and 1856-60 which culminated in the so-called \"unequal treaties\" and the eventual overthrow of the Qing in 1912.Result: China was forced to accept the trade with devastating social consequences. In fairness I should add that the stuff was legal in Britain at the time \u2013 as readers of Victorian novels can confirm. The Chinese governor Lin Zexu became a hero for opposing the trade \u2013 as did young William Gladstone at Westminster.All the same, it is a pretty shameful story. Perhaps it slipped your memory? It certainly hasn't slipped theirs and is still unravelling: they only got Hong Kong back in 1997 and have never rebuilt the burned Summer Palace at Beijing \u2013 their Windsor.So, one way or another, poor Akmal Shaikh was the wrong man in the wrong place. But China is likely to be impervious to lectures from Europeans on the morality of the drugs trade.As the world's rising power it's unlikely to be lectured anyway, but that's another story \u2013 one we'll rapidly have to get used to. No declaration of war this week, please Ivan.", "tags": ["Politics", "UK news", "China", "Gordon Brown", "David Cameron", "Foreign policy", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Why denouncing China is hypocritical| Michael White"},{"date": "2009-12-23T14:00:02Z", "country": "china", "content": "During the frantic final two days of negotiations at Copenhagen over the weekend, Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton set a clever trap for Chinese premier, Wen Jiabao. Having just announced that the US would establish and contribute to a $100bn international fund by 2020 to help poor nations cope with the challenge of climate change, they added a non-negotiable proviso: all major nations would first be required to commit their emissions reduction to a binding agreement and submit these reductions to \"transparent verification\".Everyone in the room knew that \"all major nations\" primarily meant China. From the beginning, China has steadfastly refused to accept outside monitoring and verification of its progress toward any promised targets. But the 11th-hour US proposal immediately isolated China. The onus was now on Beijing to agree to standards of \"transparent verification\". If it did not, poorer countries standing to benefit from the fund would blame China for breaking the deal.Clinton's proposal had cunningly undermined Beijing's leadership over the developing bloc of countries. In anger, Chinese officials responded that such demands were an insult to China and would be a violation of Chinese sovereignty and national interests. Wen had been outflanked and was angry, even leaving the conference centre and subsequently snubbing Obama in a couple of previously planned bilateral and multinational meetings involving the US president.Which raises the question: why the extreme response? China has long been engaging in a dangerous game of manipulating important economic numbers and concealing domestic commercial realities. Despite all its progress over 30 years, Beijing is afraid to shine too bright a light in dark places, and even more afraid that outsiders might be allowed to do so. In important respects, the government actually embraces opaqueness as a perceived advantage. The thought of \"transparent verification\" was seen as the thin end of the wedge, allowing outside experts broad authority to peer into the workings of middle China.Teams of international economists, scientists, inspectors and statisticians roaming China to gather information on carbon emissions and reduction initiatives would have been unprecedented. In promoting China, Beijing projects an image of order and competence to the world. In parts of its wealthier coastal cities, China is that. But these international teams would undoubtedly discover exactly how dysfunctional the heart of the country really is. They would see first hand and report back how China's 45 million local officials remain the most formidable obstacle to improving transparency in China's sprawling economic structure \u2013 protecting their turf, defending their privileges, arbitrarily enforcing the law, and when it comes to economic performance blatantly cooking the books. Beijing still wants to assure outsiders that it remains in charge even though in important respects it is not.This lack of accountability and transparency strikes at the heart of China's credibility in any global climate change agenda. Wen would not want foreign experts reporting to political masters in America and Europe that Beijing's capacity for compelling local officials and locally managed, state-controlled enterprises \u2013 some 120,000 companies and countless other subsidiaries \u2013 to implement climate change initiatives is extremely low. This would simply strengthen suspicions that decentralised China cannot actually honour future commitments despite promises that it intends to.Then there is the further problem of cheating in current and future carbon reduction schemes. Developed countries need to feel confident that incentives offered to developing countries to cut emissions (in both absolute terms and emissions relative to economic growth) can be verified. Indeed, earlier this month, the UN body in charge of the clean development mechanism \u2013 a proviso under the Kyoto protocol allowing developed countries to purchase carbon offsets for funding \"clean energy\" developments elsewhere \u2013 suspended approvals for dozens of Chinese windfarms over suspicions that China had held back the building of planned windfarms and deliberately lowered previously allocated subsidies to make the wind farms eligible for earning credits \u2013 industrial policies that would disqualify these farms from benefiting under the scheme. China has so far received carbon credits worth more than $1bn, which is almost half of the total issued under the UN-run programme.China's government has vigorously denied that it is attempting to illegitimately manipulate the scheme. But the point is that there is no system for independent and external verification; nor is Beijing proposing to allow one. Meanwhile, China had previously pledged that 15% (and possibly 20%) of its energy would come from renewable sources by 2020 and that special efforts would be made to close dirty power plants and impose world-class vehicle efficiency standards and proposed various other measures to cut emissions. Again, developed countries suspect that China will receive plaudits and concessions from any future carbon emissions regime without actually keeping its promises.Alas, given the desperation to announce a \"deal\", Obama backed down. The so-called \"Copenhagen accord\" merely compels developing nations to self-report their emissions every two years and allow outside scrutiny of the data. China is off the hook for the moment, but whether this is enough to satisfy the US Congress when deciding whether to approve any future binding agreement is another matter.", "tags": ["China", "US foreign policy", "Copenhagen climate change conference 2009", "Climate change", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Carbon offsetting", "Renewable energy", "Environment", "World news", "Global climate talks", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China fears climate change openness | John Lee"},{"date": "2009-11-27T07:46:17Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has executed two men for abducting and selling 15 children, many of whom have yet to be reunited with their families, state media reported today.Thousands of children go missing each year in China, although authorities have recently stepped up efforts to tackle the problem. The cultural preference for male heirs and birth control restrictions have created a demand for baby boys, but experts say both sexes are abducted as labour or to beg for gangs, and girls are also taken as wives for unwed men.Hu Minghua, 55, was convicted of kidnapping and selling nine children between 1999 and 2005, the state news agency Xinhua reported, citing a statement from the supreme people's court.Five of the children, all boys now aged from three to six, have been returned to their families, but the parents of the remaining four have yet to be found.Su Binde, 27, was convicted of abducting six children in 2005 and 2006. But while five were rescued by police, the sixth is still missing.Su was also convicted of leading six robberies and twelve thefts and kidnapping a taxi driver who escaped but died 10 days later, according to a court statement.Both men were executed yesterday morning, Xinhua said. They were both detained in 2006.Parents have often complained that the authorities have done little to help when their children have gone missing.But earlier this year Chinese police launched a crackdown on the trafficking of women and children. They say they have rescued around 2,000 children since the campaign began and state media have reported on the ensuing rescues, arrests and in some cases, reunions.In October, the ministry of public security set up a website to reunite dozens of rescued but unidentified children with their families. It has also created a national DNA database. Xinhua said 1,714 people were punished for abducting and trafficking children in the first 10 months of the year, citing figures from the supreme court.The court's spokesman Wang Shaonan said the number of cases had risen 11.25% compared with the same period last year, to 1,107 trials.He warned that child trafficking was on the rise and that gangs were becoming more organised.", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China executes two child traffickers"},{"date": "2009-10-27T11:48:52Z", "country": "china", "content": "The Chinese government has confirmed it executed two Tibetans for deadly arson attacks during last year's unrest in Lhasa \u2013 the first reported judicial killings in the region for six years.A foreign ministry spokesman, Ma Zhaoxu, said two men had been put to death, and declined to provide further details. Overseas Tibetan groups have identified the dead as Lobsang Gyaltsen and Loyak.Lobsang Gyaltsen was sentenced to death this year for an arson attack that killed a shop owner in Lhasa, according to a report at the time by Xinhua news agency. Loyak was handed the same penalty for starting a blaze at a motorcycle shop that killed five people, the agency said.The US-funded Radio Free Asia said Lobsang Gyaltsen was allowed a visit by his mother before he was executed. \"I have nothing to say, except please take good care of my child and send him to school,\" he was quoted as telling her.There has been no confirmation of two other executions reported last Thursday by the campaign group Free Tibet.The British Foreign Office minister Ivan Lewis condemned the executions. \"We respect China's right to bring those responsible for the violence in Tibet last year to justice.\"But the UK opposes the death penalty in all circumstances, and we have consistently raised our concerns about lack of due process in these cases in particular,\" he said.", "tags": ["Tibet", "China", "Capital punishment", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China confirms two Tibet executions"},{"date": "2009-11-23T09:08:27Z", "country": "china", "content": "A Chinese court has sentenced a veteran dissident convicted of spying to three years in prison.Huang Qi was convicted of illegally possessing state secrets by the Wuhou district court in the western city of Chengdu, his wife Zeng Li said by telephone.Zeng said no details were given about the charge, an ill-defined accusation often used by Communist leaders to clamp down on dissent and imprison activists.Huang was detained on 10 June 2008 after posting articles on his website criticising the government's response to the May 2008 earthquake in Sichuan province that killed about 90,000 people. Huang also spoke to foreign media about parents' criticism that their children had been crushed in badly built schools. The government has tried to suppress such complaints.Zeng said Huang was taken directly from the court without being allowed to speak. She believed he would appeal the sentence.Calls to the court and Huang's lawyer, Mo Shaoping, rang unanswered.Huang previously served a five-year prison sentence on subversion charges linked to politically sensitive articles posted on his website.Since his release in 2005 he had supported a wide range of causes, including families of those killed in the 1989 military crackdown on pro-democracy protests in Beijing and farmers involved in land disputes with authorities.", "tags": ["China", "Protest", "Human rights", "China earthquake", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Law", "Asia Pacific", "Earthquakes"], "title": "China jails earthquake activist"},{"date": "2009-10-22T18:02:34Z", "country": "china", "content": "Chinese authorities have carried out their first executions of Tibetans in connection with the deadly riots that swept Lhasa last year, according to exile groups.As the first reported judicial killings in the region for six years, the news has prompted overseas protests and concerns that proper legal procedures were not followed.The Chinese state media have yet to confirm the executions. However, the Tibetan Centre for Human Rights and Democracy, based in Dharamsala in northern India, said it had reports that they took place early on Tuesday morning.It identified three of the executed Tibetans as two men \u2013 Lobsang Gyaltsen and Loyak \u2013 and a woman named Penkyi. The fourth victim was not named.The Lhasa intermediate people's court sentenced the two men to death on charges of arson in April, according to Xinhua news agency reports at the time. Under Chinese law, death penalty cases should be reviewed by the supreme court.The Dharamsala-based group said the body of Lobsang Gyaltsen had been handed to his family, while Loyak's ashes were given to his relatives.The director of Free Tibet, Stephanie Brigden, said the executions were an outrage. \"It is impossible to have any confidence that even the most basic legal norms were observed before the Chinese state sanctioned and carried out the killing of these four Tibetans,\" she said.London-based Tibetan groups called for a vigil outside the Chinese embassy. Free Tibet said the executions, which came just weeks after a Foreign Office minister, Ivan Lewis, made a rare trip to Lhasa, should prompt the British government to rethink the way it engages with China over the region.Labour MP Kate Hoey has tabled an early day motion calling for an inquiry into the UK government's failure to secure human rights improvements in Tibet.A US congressional commission will publish a study of Tibet next week which finds Chinese officials are strengthening efforts to separate Tibetan Buddhists from the Dalai Lama, and preparing to select his successor. However the study also notes that the Dalai Lama's willingness to restrict discussions only to areas that China considers part of Tibet have opened up an unprecedented opportunity for progress.In a separate case, Reporters Without Borders called for the release of three Tibetans who have been held since 1 October for allegedly sending information about Tibet to contacts abroad via the internet.It said the three have not been permitted to contact their families during detentions.\"The internet is monitored, censored and manipulated more in Tibet than in other Chinese provinces,\" Reporters Without Borders said. \"Despite the risks, Tibetan internet users continue to transmit information, especially to the diaspora and human rights groups. It is deplorable that the Chinese police devote so much energy to identifying and arresting ordinary internet users.\"", "tags": ["Tibet", "World news", "China", "Human rights", "Law", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China executes Tibetan protesters"},{"date": "2009-12-30T00:05:23Z", "country": "china", "content": "In a nasty diplomatic dance to the death, Britain and China have been exchanging carefully calculated protests this week over the fate of Akmal Shaikh. Neither side can have expected their words to change anything. British ministers and opposition leaders have expressed appropriate and genuine outrage at the poor man's judicial killing. China, in turn, has shrugged off complaints as unjustified interference. \"No one has the right to comment on China's judicial sovereignty,\" said a representative of the Chinese foreign ministry yesterday.That latter statement is of course nonsense. Britain has a duty to express horror at the execution of one of its citizens, especially someone as confused and unwell as the unfortunate Mr Shaikh, who seems to have been lured into smuggling without knowing what he was doing. The serious criminals are the people who used him, and people around the world like him, as drug mules \u2013 but they are often rich enough, or hidden enough, to escape. That, sadly, was not the case with Mr Shaikh, who died on Tuesday morning amid disingenuous Chinese claims that the 4,030 grams of heroin he smuggled was \"enough to cause 26,800 deaths\".In the same statement, issued on Christmas Eve, the Chinese embassy in London made a pointed reference to the country's \"bitter memory of drug problems in history\". Not that long ago, Britain fought wars to keep the opium trade open. China may well feel resentment at being lectured about drugs by a power that once supplied them. But the country ought to listen. Protests about China's human rights record are not intended to weaken the country, or humiliate it, but to protect its citizens. China would be more respected in the world if it did not sustain such a casual approach to trying and executing its people. Much about what happens is secret, but Amnesty International believes that at least 7,003 people were sentenced to death in China last year, and at least 1,718 were executed. That is more industrialised slaughter than justice.Some argue that external pressure will only do harm. The world needs Chinese co-operation to overcome the financial crisis and the environmental one. Whatever the truth behind the outcome of the Copenhagen summit, an obstructive China is in a position to do great harm, and a co-operative one great good. That, though, should not stop other countries speaking out. In the last years of British rule in Hong Kong, so-called old China hands in the Foreign Office deplored Chris Patten's brave attempt to bring democracy to the colony. Fiery words were exchanged. But it made Hong Kong a better place. Respect for Chinese power is no reason to stay silent when China is in the wrong.", "tags": ["Capital punishment", "China", "UK news", "Politics", "Human rights", "Foreign policy", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Britain and China: Death deplored"},{"date": "2009-12-30T19:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "What is becoming ever more clear as this year rattles to an end is that the west has no idea how to handle China. Since the relationship of the People's Republic will be a key factor in the year (and many more years) ahead, that makes this a core question for the Obama administration and Europe \u2013 and, closer to the mainland, for India and Japan as well. But there still seems to be an almost childish reluctance in the west to accept China for what it is, whatever one may think of what it is.It might be nice if China was more like us, but it isn't going to be. Expecting it to fit into the paradigm set by the west is not only futile but positively dangerous. The sooner governments start to work out a meaningful China policy rather than depending on wishful thinking, the better. It would make a good New year's resolution. But I'm not holding my breath.The sad case of Akmal Shaikh, the London man executed in China on drug smuggling charges provides the latest example of how little the conventional approach to China on decent humanitarian grounds yields, just as concern abroad about the fate of Charter 08 dissident Liu Xiaobo did nothing to prevent him being sentenced to 11 years in jail on Christmas Day. China has reacted indignantly to the protests about Shaikh. The argument that China has made a mockery of justice has been made on Cif by Clive Stafford Smith. Less convincingly, we have had the descant of a reminder of the opium wars, as if Shaikh was a reincarnation of the East India Company, and relativists trotting out the tired old fallacy that human rights abuses in the west and executions in the US disbar us from protesting at the way the trial was conducted.Behind this froth, what is plain is that China has once again asserted its determination to protect its own sovereignty whatever the issue, and is intent on doing things its way. Given its economic progress in the past three decades and the immediate effect of its huge pump-priming over the past 12 months in restoring growth (even if the second half of next year may prove more problematic), the leadership and the population feel pretty good about themselves. They are in no mood to take lessons, moral or otherwise, from the west.In this context, the Shaikh case fits into a string of scratchy non-meetings of mind between China and the west over the last couple of months.First there has been the long-running issue of the under-valuation of the Chinese currency. The case for appreciation of the yuan is undeniable. Equally undeniable is that Beijing is going to do no such thing until its exports rise back to their pre-crisis levels. Even then it has large amount of excess capacity to keep employed, and tens of millions of workers to provide jobs for when the current infrastructure programme starts to come to an end in the second half of 2010. So, however well-founded the arguments put it by the treasury department in Washington or the European Central Bank, the leadership stands firm.Then we had the spectacle of Obama's visit to China, during which his \"town hall\" meeting in Shanghai was transmitted only by one local television station, and during which the Chinese arranged a programme for him that was heavy on tourism. Yes, it ended with a lengthy list of general agreements to co-operate and assurances that the basis was being laid for long-term relationship. But the beef was missing, and US briefings that the two sides had reached meaningful agreement on climate change were swiftly blown apart by the fiasco of Copenhagen.That conference showed just how western leaders are for understanding how China really works. The idea that, by crashing the meeting of major emerging economies, Obama could reach a last-minute deal with the Chinese prime minister to save the planet would have been laughable if it had not been tragic. Did the US president really think Wen Jiabao had any wriggle room to succumb to his charm and reason? Did he imagine that the prime minister would suddenly jettison 60 years of suspicion of the outside world to allow independent monitoring?Mark Lynas's much-remarked piece in the Guardian puts the blame squarely on Beijing, but takes no account of how the Chinese system actually operates, seemingly imagining it runs on western lines. The Chinese position would have been set out in advance and approved by the standing committee of the politburo. Wen could not deviate from that, even if he had been minded to do so. He may be prime minister but he ranks third in the standing committee and moves carefully. On such a crucial issue, he would be able to do absolutely nothing that might be seen as jeopardising the domestic economy; China accords importance to the environment but a good deal more to growth.In addition, several key Chinese leaders were out of Beijing at the time and this is a leadership that likes to have everybody in the room when decisions are made and doesn't believe in long-range teleconferences. So it is safe to assume that China was not in negotiating mode, and that, unless Beijing was being set up as the fall guy, Obama, Brown, Miliband et al should have know this, and negotiated accordingly. The same goes for the currency, human rights and, unfortunately for him, for Shaikh. It is also likely to be the case if trade disputes swell next year, as one must anticipate.That leads to an underlying element which, again, seems insufficiently appreciated by western governments. General Secretary Hu and Wen operate by consensus. They are careful bureaucrats who do not command an automatic majority in the nine-man standing committee. Gone are the days of Mao getting out of bed one afternoon and deciding on a major policy initiative or of Deng Xiaoping imposing himself on those who nominally held positions superior to him. That is, in a way, healthy, but it means inflexibility at the top. Hu and Wen have to deal with factions, lobbies and powerful state companies. For all the liberation of the goods market, the economy is still tightly controlled in key input areas, buttressing the power of entrenched interests. The Communist party knows it needs to reform itself but is terrified of the effect of doing so.All that is a recipe for caution. Not for the kind of reasoned flexibility and give-and-take which the west likes to make the basis for relationships between nations (however fallible this proves in practice). Repeating mantras about the need to revalue the yuan, respect human rights, join in independent monitoring or accept emission targets which would threaten the growth that provides the regime's prime legitimacy may be necessary for the west's own self-respect and defence of its own values. But the chances of getting results is razor-thin until a new policy context is evolved.", "tags": ["China", "US foreign policy", "Capital punishment", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "How not to handle China | Jonathan Fenby"},{"date": "2009-12-29T10:32:25Z", "country": "china", "content": "I'm sorry too that the Chinese have just executed Akmal Shaikh, an apparently mentally ill Briton. He was clearly an expendable drugs mule, cynically exploited by traffickers who are still alive and well today.But I'm also sorry about the international clamour to denounce China, which sounds at least as hypocritical and insensitive as the act itself. Can Gordon Brown and David Cameron \u2013 to name but two \u2013 hear what they sound like?Let's start with the basics. Most of us (not all) deplore the drugs trade \u2013 from cultivation to distribution and sale \u2013 which is illegal in most countries (not all) and has spawned a huge and lucrative global industry.Some think the \"cure'' \u2013 the worldwide campaign against the trade \u2013 worse than the disease since it underpins major criminal enterprises on all continents. It has long been the case, though I would personally hesitate to risk legalising it and hoping for the best.Different countries tackle the problem in different ways. China, which has a rising drugs problem as it enters the modern consumer era, is one of those which takes a tough line. As the Guardian's Q&A points out today it is one of the few crimes to attract a mandatory death sentence.Enter poor Akmal Shaikh, who seems to have gone off the rails in middle age after leading a quiet family life as a north London taxi driver. Someone who struck acquaintances as very odd after he emigrated to Poland with grandiose ideas, he falls into bad company which exploits his gullibility.So he ends up landing in Urumqi, northern China, in 2007 and being caught at the airport with 4kg of heroin in his luggage. He told police he knew nothing about it. It's a tragically familiar story and, in his case, it's probably true.In the wake of his execution the Chinese authorities sound quite angry at criticism of their judicial system. Shaikh had a fair trial, complete with interpreter, they say. He was deemed fit to plead.Mental illness? Ah, that's a tricky one. But it's easy to see how the Chinese might take a very different view of how it is defined. So do many jurisdictions \u2013 as we all know \u2013 on this and many other legal issues: \"self defence\", \"crimes of passion\", \"third degree homicide\", \"honour killings\", lots of scope for moral relativism in all of them.Reprieve and other admirable campaigns which fight for the rights of prisoners in foreign jurisdictions have the virtue of consistency. Thus they oppose the death penalty wherever it exists, including the US, where it was abolished as a \"cruel and unnatural punishment'' in 1972 \u2013 and restored in 1976 when the supreme court changed its mind.Though they are pretty half-hearted about it compared with China's 1,700 or so known executions (they are reported to sell body parts for medical use) a year, southern US states are keenest.As governors both George W Bush and Bill Clinton \u2013 whom so many of us admire \u2013 signed off on questionable executions of vulnerable, marginalised people like Akmal Shaikh. A high proportion of the 3,000 or so Americans on Death Row \u2013 few actually executed \u2013 are black. Britain? We last executed a man called Peter Allen at Walton jail on 13 August 1964 for murder  \u2013 three years before the final abolition of the death penalty.Not so long ago really (our last Etonian PM, Sir Alec Douglas-Home, was in No 10) and, as China's very smart UK ambassador has probably told Beijing, capital punishment still commands as much enthusiasm here 40 years later as it does in China, ie lots.So there's a sovereignty issue. China \u2013 like the US \u2013 has the right to pass and implement its own laws and governments, governments-in-waiting in Cameron's case, should pause before getting too mouthy. Apparently 27 representations were made to China by Britain over the past two years \u2013 mostly quietly, I assume, which is always the best way.But the execution took place during the Christmas news lull: hence the sudden high profile. Thank goodness Ivan Lewis, the junior foreign office minister put up to talk about it today, saidL \"I'm not going to make idle threats\" \u2013 or we might be starting 2010 going to war with China.Talking of which, the really toe-curling fact, of which neither Dr Gordon Brown with his PhD in history, nor David Cameron with his 1st in PPE should be ignorant, is Anglo-Chinese history.When Europeans started forcing the reclusive China of the late Ming and Qing dynasty to open its doors to trade in the 16th and 17th century the visitors wanted more Chinese goods \u2013 all that tea, silk and lovely porcelain \u2013 than the Chinese wanted of ours.Sounds familiar? What the Chinese would accept was silver, a better bet than the US dollars they now hold in such vast quantities. This was unsustainable and in the 19th century the British East India Company hit on the idea of importing Indian opium to China \u2013 though it was banned by imperial Chinese law.I hope you've spotted where I'm heading. If not here's Wiki's starter kit on the Opium Wars of 1839-42 and 1856-60 which culminated in the so-called \"unequal treaties\" and the eventual overthrow of the Qing in 1912.Result: China was forced to accept the trade with devastating social consequences. In fairness I should add that the stuff was legal in Britain at the time \u2013 as readers of Victorian novels can confirm. The Chinese governor Lin Zexu became a hero for opposing the trade \u2013 as did young William Gladstone at Westminster.All the same, it is a pretty shameful story. Perhaps it slipped your memory? It certainly hasn't slipped theirs and is still unravelling: they only got Hong Kong back in 1997 and have never rebuilt the burned Summer Palace at Beijing \u2013 their Windsor.So, one way or another, poor Akmal Shaikh was the wrong man in the wrong place. But China is likely to be impervious to lectures from Europeans on the morality of the drugs trade.As the world's rising power it's unlikely to be lectured anyway, but that's another story \u2013 one we'll rapidly have to get used to. No declaration of war this week, please Ivan.", "tags": ["Politics", "UK news", "China", "Gordon Brown", "David Cameron", "Foreign policy", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Why denouncing China is hypocritical| Michael White"},{"date": "2009-12-23T14:00:02Z", "country": "china", "content": "During the frantic final two days of negotiations at Copenhagen over the weekend, Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton set a clever trap for Chinese premier, Wen Jiabao. Having just announced that the US would establish and contribute to a $100bn international fund by 2020 to help poor nations cope with the challenge of climate change, they added a non-negotiable proviso: all major nations would first be required to commit their emissions reduction to a binding agreement and submit these reductions to \"transparent verification\".Everyone in the room knew that \"all major nations\" primarily meant China. From the beginning, China has steadfastly refused to accept outside monitoring and verification of its progress toward any promised targets. But the 11th-hour US proposal immediately isolated China. The onus was now on Beijing to agree to standards of \"transparent verification\". If it did not, poorer countries standing to benefit from the fund would blame China for breaking the deal.Clinton's proposal had cunningly undermined Beijing's leadership over the developing bloc of countries. In anger, Chinese officials responded that such demands were an insult to China and would be a violation of Chinese sovereignty and national interests. Wen had been outflanked and was angry, even leaving the conference centre and subsequently snubbing Obama in a couple of previously planned bilateral and multinational meetings involving the US president.Which raises the question: why the extreme response? China has long been engaging in a dangerous game of manipulating important economic numbers and concealing domestic commercial realities. Despite all its progress over 30 years, Beijing is afraid to shine too bright a light in dark places, and even more afraid that outsiders might be allowed to do so. In important respects, the government actually embraces opaqueness as a perceived advantage. The thought of \"transparent verification\" was seen as the thin end of the wedge, allowing outside experts broad authority to peer into the workings of middle China.Teams of international economists, scientists, inspectors and statisticians roaming China to gather information on carbon emissions and reduction initiatives would have been unprecedented. In promoting China, Beijing projects an image of order and competence to the world. In parts of its wealthier coastal cities, China is that. But these international teams would undoubtedly discover exactly how dysfunctional the heart of the country really is. They would see first hand and report back how China's 45 million local officials remain the most formidable obstacle to improving transparency in China's sprawling economic structure \u2013 protecting their turf, defending their privileges, arbitrarily enforcing the law, and when it comes to economic performance blatantly cooking the books. Beijing still wants to assure outsiders that it remains in charge even though in important respects it is not.This lack of accountability and transparency strikes at the heart of China's credibility in any global climate change agenda. Wen would not want foreign experts reporting to political masters in America and Europe that Beijing's capacity for compelling local officials and locally managed, state-controlled enterprises \u2013 some 120,000 companies and countless other subsidiaries \u2013 to implement climate change initiatives is extremely low. This would simply strengthen suspicions that decentralised China cannot actually honour future commitments despite promises that it intends to.Then there is the further problem of cheating in current and future carbon reduction schemes. Developed countries need to feel confident that incentives offered to developing countries to cut emissions (in both absolute terms and emissions relative to economic growth) can be verified. Indeed, earlier this month, the UN body in charge of the clean development mechanism \u2013 a proviso under the Kyoto protocol allowing developed countries to purchase carbon offsets for funding \"clean energy\" developments elsewhere \u2013 suspended approvals for dozens of Chinese windfarms over suspicions that China had held back the building of planned windfarms and deliberately lowered previously allocated subsidies to make the wind farms eligible for earning credits \u2013 industrial policies that would disqualify these farms from benefiting under the scheme. China has so far received carbon credits worth more than $1bn, which is almost half of the total issued under the UN-run programme.China's government has vigorously denied that it is attempting to illegitimately manipulate the scheme. But the point is that there is no system for independent and external verification; nor is Beijing proposing to allow one. Meanwhile, China had previously pledged that 15% (and possibly 20%) of its energy would come from renewable sources by 2020 and that special efforts would be made to close dirty power plants and impose world-class vehicle efficiency standards and proposed various other measures to cut emissions. Again, developed countries suspect that China will receive plaudits and concessions from any future carbon emissions regime without actually keeping its promises.Alas, given the desperation to announce a \"deal\", Obama backed down. The so-called \"Copenhagen accord\" merely compels developing nations to self-report their emissions every two years and allow outside scrutiny of the data. China is off the hook for the moment, but whether this is enough to satisfy the US Congress when deciding whether to approve any future binding agreement is another matter.", "tags": ["China", "US foreign policy", "Copenhagen climate change conference 2009", "Climate change", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Carbon offsetting", "Renewable energy", "Environment", "World news", "Global climate talks", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China fears climate change openness | John Lee"},{"date": "2009-11-27T07:46:17Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has executed two men for abducting and selling 15 children, many of whom have yet to be reunited with their families, state media reported today.Thousands of children go missing each year in China, although authorities have recently stepped up efforts to tackle the problem. The cultural preference for male heirs and birth control restrictions have created a demand for baby boys, but experts say both sexes are abducted as labour or to beg for gangs, and girls are also taken as wives for unwed men.Hu Minghua, 55, was convicted of kidnapping and selling nine children between 1999 and 2005, the state news agency Xinhua reported, citing a statement from the supreme people's court.Five of the children, all boys now aged from three to six, have been returned to their families, but the parents of the remaining four have yet to be found.Su Binde, 27, was convicted of abducting six children in 2005 and 2006. But while five were rescued by police, the sixth is still missing.Su was also convicted of leading six robberies and twelve thefts and kidnapping a taxi driver who escaped but died 10 days later, according to a court statement.Both men were executed yesterday morning, Xinhua said. They were both detained in 2006.Parents have often complained that the authorities have done little to help when their children have gone missing.But earlier this year Chinese police launched a crackdown on the trafficking of women and children. They say they have rescued around 2,000 children since the campaign began and state media have reported on the ensuing rescues, arrests and in some cases, reunions.In October, the ministry of public security set up a website to reunite dozens of rescued but unidentified children with their families. It has also created a national DNA database. Xinhua said 1,714 people were punished for abducting and trafficking children in the first 10 months of the year, citing figures from the supreme court.The court's spokesman Wang Shaonan said the number of cases had risen 11.25% compared with the same period last year, to 1,107 trials.He warned that child trafficking was on the rise and that gangs were becoming more organised.", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China executes two child traffickers"},{"date": "2009-10-27T11:48:52Z", "country": "china", "content": "The Chinese government has confirmed it executed two Tibetans for deadly arson attacks during last year's unrest in Lhasa \u2013 the first reported judicial killings in the region for six years.A foreign ministry spokesman, Ma Zhaoxu, said two men had been put to death, and declined to provide further details. Overseas Tibetan groups have identified the dead as Lobsang Gyaltsen and Loyak.Lobsang Gyaltsen was sentenced to death this year for an arson attack that killed a shop owner in Lhasa, according to a report at the time by Xinhua news agency. Loyak was handed the same penalty for starting a blaze at a motorcycle shop that killed five people, the agency said.The US-funded Radio Free Asia said Lobsang Gyaltsen was allowed a visit by his mother before he was executed. \"I have nothing to say, except please take good care of my child and send him to school,\" he was quoted as telling her.There has been no confirmation of two other executions reported last Thursday by the campaign group Free Tibet.The British Foreign Office minister Ivan Lewis condemned the executions. \"We respect China's right to bring those responsible for the violence in Tibet last year to justice.\"But the UK opposes the death penalty in all circumstances, and we have consistently raised our concerns about lack of due process in these cases in particular,\" he said.", "tags": ["Tibet", "China", "Capital punishment", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China confirms two Tibet executions"},{"date": "2009-12-29T04:11:27Z", "country": "china", "content": "China was this morning condemned for its human rights record after a British man who, his supporters say, had mental health problems, was executed for smuggling drugs.Akmal Shaikh, 53, was put to death at 10.30am local time (2.30am British time) after frantic last-minute pleas for clemency by the Foreign Office failed.Britain had demonstrated its anger with Beijing over the treatment of Shaikh, who had smuggled 4kg (8.8lb) of heroin into China, when it summoned the Chinese ambassador for a diplomatic dressing down at the Foreign Office.In what was described as a \"full and frank exchange of views\", the Foreign Office minister Ivan Lewis asked Fu Ying for clemency and outlined Britain's concern that China had not taken Shaikh's mental health into consideration.Hours before the deadline \u2013 and after voicing Britain's opposition to the death penalty in a telephone call to his Chinese counterpart \u2013 Lewis told the ambassador that it was \"not right\" that Shaikh's mental health had been overlooked by the court that sentenced him.Speaking after meeting the ambassador, in Britain's 27th representation to China on the case, Lewis said: \"China fully understands the strength of feeling in this country and around the world.\"But the ambassador made clear that the Chinese judiciary was independent of the government and that the supreme court had made its decision. On Shaikh's mental health, she said all his paperwork had been fed into the judicial process, which had now taken its course.As MPs lined up to criticise China's action, a spokesman for the embassy said Shaikh had been found with more than 4kg of heroin, and being caught with 50g of heroin was enough for the death penalty under Chinese law.Downing Street said Britain had done \"everything within its power\" to secure a fair trial and clemency for Shaikh, who was found guilty of drug smuggling in 2007. \"The prime minister has intervened personally on a number of occasions: he has raised the case with Premier Wen [Jiabao], most recently at the Copenhagen summit, and has written several times to President Hu [Jintao],\" a spokesman said.MPs were scathing about China. Ken Purchase, a former Foreign Office ministerial aide and a member of the Commons foreign affairs select committee, called China's actions \"absolutely regrettable\", adding that the country was trying to position itself in the mainstream of international affairs while persisting with \"barbaric actions\".Gisela Stuart, a former Labour minister who also sits on the foreign affairs select committee, said: \"When it comes to questions of human rights in China there is still the most enormous gap.\"Shaikh was informed of his death sentence yesterday when British consular officials accompanied two of his cousins Soohail Shaikh and Nasir Shaikh, to the secure hospital in Urumqi where he was being held. His death sentence marks the first time an EU national has been executed in China in 50 years.In a statement after the meeting, they said: \"He was obviously very upset on hearing from us of the sentence. We strongly feel that he's not rational and he needs medication. We feel a pardon would allow Akmal to get the medical assistance he needs.\" The family filed a last-minute petition for a stay of execution and an application for a special pardon to China's supreme court, to the president, and to the standing committee of the people's national congressNational People's Congress orthe parliament.Shaikh, a father of three, was arrested in Urumqi in September 2007 and charged with drug smuggling. He lost a final appeal last week, but campaigners claim his mental illness was not taken into account.The anti-death-penalty organisation Reprieve said it had medical evidence that Shaikh believed he was going to China in 2007 to record a hit single that would usher in world peace. It said he was duped into carrying a suitcase packed with heroin on a flight from Tajikistan to Urumqi.As the hours counted down to his execution, witnesses gave more evidence of Shaikh's strange behaviour in the past.Paul Newberry, a British national who lives in Poland, described how Shaikh while there had lived in a fantasy world: \"He had no money but was never desperate for it. He was clearly not desperate enough to smuggle heroin to China.\"", "tags": ["China", "UK news", "Capital punishment", "Society", "Bipolar disorder", "World news", "Mental health", "Life and style", "Yemen", "Al-Qaida", "Alan Johnson", "Labour", "Politics", "US national security", "US news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Fury as China executes British drug smuggler"},{"date": "2009-11-23T09:08:27Z", "country": "china", "content": "A Chinese court has sentenced a veteran dissident convicted of spying to three years in prison.Huang Qi was convicted of illegally possessing state secrets by the Wuhou district court in the western city of Chengdu, his wife Zeng Li said by telephone.Zeng said no details were given about the charge, an ill-defined accusation often used by Communist leaders to clamp down on dissent and imprison activists.Huang was detained on 10 June 2008 after posting articles on his website criticising the government's response to the May 2008 earthquake in Sichuan province that killed about 90,000 people. Huang also spoke to foreign media about parents' criticism that their children had been crushed in badly built schools. The government has tried to suppress such complaints.Zeng said Huang was taken directly from the court without being allowed to speak. She believed he would appeal the sentence.Calls to the court and Huang's lawyer, Mo Shaoping, rang unanswered.Huang previously served a five-year prison sentence on subversion charges linked to politically sensitive articles posted on his website.Since his release in 2005 he had supported a wide range of causes, including families of those killed in the 1989 military crackdown on pro-democracy protests in Beijing and farmers involved in land disputes with authorities.", "tags": ["China", "Protest", "Human rights", "China earthquake", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Law", "Asia Pacific", "Earthquakes"], "title": "China jails earthquake activist"},{"date": "2009-10-22T18:02:34Z", "country": "china", "content": "Chinese authorities have carried out their first executions of Tibetans in connection with the deadly riots that swept Lhasa last year, according to exile groups.As the first reported judicial killings in the region for six years, the news has prompted overseas protests and concerns that proper legal procedures were not followed.The Chinese state media have yet to confirm the executions. However, the Tibetan Centre for Human Rights and Democracy, based in Dharamsala in northern India, said it had reports that they took place early on Tuesday morning.It identified three of the executed Tibetans as two men \u2013 Lobsang Gyaltsen and Loyak \u2013 and a woman named Penkyi. The fourth victim was not named.The Lhasa intermediate people's court sentenced the two men to death on charges of arson in April, according to Xinhua news agency reports at the time. Under Chinese law, death penalty cases should be reviewed by the supreme court.The Dharamsala-based group said the body of Lobsang Gyaltsen had been handed to his family, while Loyak's ashes were given to his relatives.The director of Free Tibet, Stephanie Brigden, said the executions were an outrage. \"It is impossible to have any confidence that even the most basic legal norms were observed before the Chinese state sanctioned and carried out the killing of these four Tibetans,\" she said.London-based Tibetan groups called for a vigil outside the Chinese embassy. Free Tibet said the executions, which came just weeks after a Foreign Office minister, Ivan Lewis, made a rare trip to Lhasa, should prompt the British government to rethink the way it engages with China over the region.Labour MP Kate Hoey has tabled an early day motion calling for an inquiry into the UK government's failure to secure human rights improvements in Tibet.A US congressional commission will publish a study of Tibet next week which finds Chinese officials are strengthening efforts to separate Tibetan Buddhists from the Dalai Lama, and preparing to select his successor. However the study also notes that the Dalai Lama's willingness to restrict discussions only to areas that China considers part of Tibet have opened up an unprecedented opportunity for progress.In a separate case, Reporters Without Borders called for the release of three Tibetans who have been held since 1 October for allegedly sending information about Tibet to contacts abroad via the internet.It said the three have not been permitted to contact their families during detentions.\"The internet is monitored, censored and manipulated more in Tibet than in other Chinese provinces,\" Reporters Without Borders said. \"Despite the risks, Tibetan internet users continue to transmit information, especially to the diaspora and human rights groups. It is deplorable that the Chinese police devote so much energy to identifying and arresting ordinary internet users.\"", "tags": ["Tibet", "World news", "China", "Human rights", "Law", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China executes Tibetan protesters"},{"date": "2009-12-30T00:05:23Z", "country": "china", "content": "In a nasty diplomatic dance to the death, Britain and China have been exchanging carefully calculated protests this week over the fate of Akmal Shaikh. Neither side can have expected their words to change anything. British ministers and opposition leaders have expressed appropriate and genuine outrage at the poor man's judicial killing. China, in turn, has shrugged off complaints as unjustified interference. \"No one has the right to comment on China's judicial sovereignty,\" said a representative of the Chinese foreign ministry yesterday.That latter statement is of course nonsense. Britain has a duty to express horror at the execution of one of its citizens, especially someone as confused and unwell as the unfortunate Mr Shaikh, who seems to have been lured into smuggling without knowing what he was doing. The serious criminals are the people who used him, and people around the world like him, as drug mules \u2013 but they are often rich enough, or hidden enough, to escape. That, sadly, was not the case with Mr Shaikh, who died on Tuesday morning amid disingenuous Chinese claims that the 4,030 grams of heroin he smuggled was \"enough to cause 26,800 deaths\".In the same statement, issued on Christmas Eve, the Chinese embassy in London made a pointed reference to the country's \"bitter memory of drug problems in history\". Not that long ago, Britain fought wars to keep the opium trade open. China may well feel resentment at being lectured about drugs by a power that once supplied them. But the country ought to listen. Protests about China's human rights record are not intended to weaken the country, or humiliate it, but to protect its citizens. China would be more respected in the world if it did not sustain such a casual approach to trying and executing its people. Much about what happens is secret, but Amnesty International believes that at least 7,003 people were sentenced to death in China last year, and at least 1,718 were executed. That is more industrialised slaughter than justice.Some argue that external pressure will only do harm. The world needs Chinese co-operation to overcome the financial crisis and the environmental one. Whatever the truth behind the outcome of the Copenhagen summit, an obstructive China is in a position to do great harm, and a co-operative one great good. That, though, should not stop other countries speaking out. In the last years of British rule in Hong Kong, so-called old China hands in the Foreign Office deplored Chris Patten's brave attempt to bring democracy to the colony. Fiery words were exchanged. But it made Hong Kong a better place. Respect for Chinese power is no reason to stay silent when China is in the wrong.", "tags": ["Capital punishment", "China", "UK news", "Politics", "Human rights", "Foreign policy", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Britain and China: Death deplored"},{"date": "2009-12-30T19:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "What is becoming ever more clear as this year rattles to an end is that the west has no idea how to handle China. Since the relationship of the People's Republic will be a key factor in the year (and many more years) ahead, that makes this a core question for the Obama administration and Europe \u2013 and, closer to the mainland, for India and Japan as well. But there still seems to be an almost childish reluctance in the west to accept China for what it is, whatever one may think of what it is.It might be nice if China was more like us, but it isn't going to be. Expecting it to fit into the paradigm set by the west is not only futile but positively dangerous. The sooner governments start to work out a meaningful China policy rather than depending on wishful thinking, the better. It would make a good New year's resolution. But I'm not holding my breath.The sad case of Akmal Shaikh, the London man executed in China on drug smuggling charges provides the latest example of how little the conventional approach to China on decent humanitarian grounds yields, just as concern abroad about the fate of Charter 08 dissident Liu Xiaobo did nothing to prevent him being sentenced to 11 years in jail on Christmas Day. China has reacted indignantly to the protests about Shaikh. The argument that China has made a mockery of justice has been made on Cif by Clive Stafford Smith. Less convincingly, we have had the descant of a reminder of the opium wars, as if Shaikh was a reincarnation of the East India Company, and relativists trotting out the tired old fallacy that human rights abuses in the west and executions in the US disbar us from protesting at the way the trial was conducted.Behind this froth, what is plain is that China has once again asserted its determination to protect its own sovereignty whatever the issue, and is intent on doing things its way. Given its economic progress in the past three decades and the immediate effect of its huge pump-priming over the past 12 months in restoring growth (even if the second half of next year may prove more problematic), the leadership and the population feel pretty good about themselves. They are in no mood to take lessons, moral or otherwise, from the west.In this context, the Shaikh case fits into a string of scratchy non-meetings of mind between China and the west over the last couple of months.First there has been the long-running issue of the under-valuation of the Chinese currency. The case for appreciation of the yuan is undeniable. Equally undeniable is that Beijing is going to do no such thing until its exports rise back to their pre-crisis levels. Even then it has large amount of excess capacity to keep employed, and tens of millions of workers to provide jobs for when the current infrastructure programme starts to come to an end in the second half of 2010. So, however well-founded the arguments put it by the treasury department in Washington or the European Central Bank, the leadership stands firm.Then we had the spectacle of Obama's visit to China, during which his \"town hall\" meeting in Shanghai was transmitted only by one local television station, and during which the Chinese arranged a programme for him that was heavy on tourism. Yes, it ended with a lengthy list of general agreements to co-operate and assurances that the basis was being laid for long-term relationship. But the beef was missing, and US briefings that the two sides had reached meaningful agreement on climate change were swiftly blown apart by the fiasco of Copenhagen.That conference showed just how western leaders are for understanding how China really works. The idea that, by crashing the meeting of major emerging economies, Obama could reach a last-minute deal with the Chinese prime minister to save the planet would have been laughable if it had not been tragic. Did the US president really think Wen Jiabao had any wriggle room to succumb to his charm and reason? Did he imagine that the prime minister would suddenly jettison 60 years of suspicion of the outside world to allow independent monitoring?Mark Lynas's much-remarked piece in the Guardian puts the blame squarely on Beijing, but takes no account of how the Chinese system actually operates, seemingly imagining it runs on western lines. The Chinese position would have been set out in advance and approved by the standing committee of the politburo. Wen could not deviate from that, even if he had been minded to do so. He may be prime minister but he ranks third in the standing committee and moves carefully. On such a crucial issue, he would be able to do absolutely nothing that might be seen as jeopardising the domestic economy; China accords importance to the environment but a good deal more to growth.In addition, several key Chinese leaders were out of Beijing at the time and this is a leadership that likes to have everybody in the room when decisions are made and doesn't believe in long-range teleconferences. So it is safe to assume that China was not in negotiating mode, and that, unless Beijing was being set up as the fall guy, Obama, Brown, Miliband et al should have know this, and negotiated accordingly. The same goes for the currency, human rights and, unfortunately for him, for Shaikh. It is also likely to be the case if trade disputes swell next year, as one must anticipate.That leads to an underlying element which, again, seems insufficiently appreciated by western governments. General Secretary Hu and Wen operate by consensus. They are careful bureaucrats who do not command an automatic majority in the nine-man standing committee. Gone are the days of Mao getting out of bed one afternoon and deciding on a major policy initiative or of Deng Xiaoping imposing himself on those who nominally held positions superior to him. That is, in a way, healthy, but it means inflexibility at the top. Hu and Wen have to deal with factions, lobbies and powerful state companies. For all the liberation of the goods market, the economy is still tightly controlled in key input areas, buttressing the power of entrenched interests. The Communist party knows it needs to reform itself but is terrified of the effect of doing so.All that is a recipe for caution. Not for the kind of reasoned flexibility and give-and-take which the west likes to make the basis for relationships between nations (however fallible this proves in practice). Repeating mantras about the need to revalue the yuan, respect human rights, join in independent monitoring or accept emission targets which would threaten the growth that provides the regime's prime legitimacy may be necessary for the west's own self-respect and defence of its own values. But the chances of getting results is razor-thin until a new policy context is evolved.", "tags": ["China", "US foreign policy", "Capital punishment", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "How not to handle China | Jonathan Fenby"},{"date": "2009-12-29T10:32:25Z", "country": "china", "content": "I'm sorry too that the Chinese have just executed Akmal Shaikh, an apparently mentally ill Briton. He was clearly an expendable drugs mule, cynically exploited by traffickers who are still alive and well today.But I'm also sorry about the international clamour to denounce China, which sounds at least as hypocritical and insensitive as the act itself. Can Gordon Brown and David Cameron \u2013 to name but two \u2013 hear what they sound like?Let's start with the basics. Most of us (not all) deplore the drugs trade \u2013 from cultivation to distribution and sale \u2013 which is illegal in most countries (not all) and has spawned a huge and lucrative global industry.Some think the \"cure'' \u2013 the worldwide campaign against the trade \u2013 worse than the disease since it underpins major criminal enterprises on all continents. It has long been the case, though I would personally hesitate to risk legalising it and hoping for the best.Different countries tackle the problem in different ways. China, which has a rising drugs problem as it enters the modern consumer era, is one of those which takes a tough line. As the Guardian's Q&A points out today it is one of the few crimes to attract a mandatory death sentence.Enter poor Akmal Shaikh, who seems to have gone off the rails in middle age after leading a quiet family life as a north London taxi driver. Someone who struck acquaintances as very odd after he emigrated to Poland with grandiose ideas, he falls into bad company which exploits his gullibility.So he ends up landing in Urumqi, northern China, in 2007 and being caught at the airport with 4kg of heroin in his luggage. He told police he knew nothing about it. It's a tragically familiar story and, in his case, it's probably true.In the wake of his execution the Chinese authorities sound quite angry at criticism of their judicial system. Shaikh had a fair trial, complete with interpreter, they say. He was deemed fit to plead.Mental illness? Ah, that's a tricky one. But it's easy to see how the Chinese might take a very different view of how it is defined. So do many jurisdictions \u2013 as we all know \u2013 on this and many other legal issues: \"self defence\", \"crimes of passion\", \"third degree homicide\", \"honour killings\", lots of scope for moral relativism in all of them.Reprieve and other admirable campaigns which fight for the rights of prisoners in foreign jurisdictions have the virtue of consistency. Thus they oppose the death penalty wherever it exists, including the US, where it was abolished as a \"cruel and unnatural punishment'' in 1972 \u2013 and restored in 1976 when the supreme court changed its mind.Though they are pretty half-hearted about it compared with China's 1,700 or so known executions (they are reported to sell body parts for medical use) a year, southern US states are keenest.As governors both George W Bush and Bill Clinton \u2013 whom so many of us admire \u2013 signed off on questionable executions of vulnerable, marginalised people like Akmal Shaikh. A high proportion of the 3,000 or so Americans on Death Row \u2013 few actually executed \u2013 are black. Britain? We last executed a man called Peter Allen at Walton jail on 13 August 1964 for murder  \u2013 three years before the final abolition of the death penalty.Not so long ago really (our last Etonian PM, Sir Alec Douglas-Home, was in No 10) and, as China's very smart UK ambassador has probably told Beijing, capital punishment still commands as much enthusiasm here 40 years later as it does in China, ie lots.So there's a sovereignty issue. China \u2013 like the US \u2013 has the right to pass and implement its own laws and governments, governments-in-waiting in Cameron's case, should pause before getting too mouthy. Apparently 27 representations were made to China by Britain over the past two years \u2013 mostly quietly, I assume, which is always the best way.But the execution took place during the Christmas news lull: hence the sudden high profile. Thank goodness Ivan Lewis, the junior foreign office minister put up to talk about it today, saidL \"I'm not going to make idle threats\" \u2013 or we might be starting 2010 going to war with China.Talking of which, the really toe-curling fact, of which neither Dr Gordon Brown with his PhD in history, nor David Cameron with his 1st in PPE should be ignorant, is Anglo-Chinese history.When Europeans started forcing the reclusive China of the late Ming and Qing dynasty to open its doors to trade in the 16th and 17th century the visitors wanted more Chinese goods \u2013 all that tea, silk and lovely porcelain \u2013 than the Chinese wanted of ours.Sounds familiar? What the Chinese would accept was silver, a better bet than the US dollars they now hold in such vast quantities. This was unsustainable and in the 19th century the British East India Company hit on the idea of importing Indian opium to China \u2013 though it was banned by imperial Chinese law.I hope you've spotted where I'm heading. If not here's Wiki's starter kit on the Opium Wars of 1839-42 and 1856-60 which culminated in the so-called \"unequal treaties\" and the eventual overthrow of the Qing in 1912.Result: China was forced to accept the trade with devastating social consequences. In fairness I should add that the stuff was legal in Britain at the time \u2013 as readers of Victorian novels can confirm. The Chinese governor Lin Zexu became a hero for opposing the trade \u2013 as did young William Gladstone at Westminster.All the same, it is a pretty shameful story. Perhaps it slipped your memory? It certainly hasn't slipped theirs and is still unravelling: they only got Hong Kong back in 1997 and have never rebuilt the burned Summer Palace at Beijing \u2013 their Windsor.So, one way or another, poor Akmal Shaikh was the wrong man in the wrong place. But China is likely to be impervious to lectures from Europeans on the morality of the drugs trade.As the world's rising power it's unlikely to be lectured anyway, but that's another story \u2013 one we'll rapidly have to get used to. No declaration of war this week, please Ivan.", "tags": ["Politics", "UK news", "China", "Gordon Brown", "David Cameron", "Foreign policy", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Why denouncing China is hypocritical| Michael White"},{"date": "2009-12-23T14:00:02Z", "country": "china", "content": "During the frantic final two days of negotiations at Copenhagen over the weekend, Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton set a clever trap for Chinese premier, Wen Jiabao. Having just announced that the US would establish and contribute to a $100bn international fund by 2020 to help poor nations cope with the challenge of climate change, they added a non-negotiable proviso: all major nations would first be required to commit their emissions reduction to a binding agreement and submit these reductions to \"transparent verification\".Everyone in the room knew that \"all major nations\" primarily meant China. From the beginning, China has steadfastly refused to accept outside monitoring and verification of its progress toward any promised targets. But the 11th-hour US proposal immediately isolated China. The onus was now on Beijing to agree to standards of \"transparent verification\". If it did not, poorer countries standing to benefit from the fund would blame China for breaking the deal.Clinton's proposal had cunningly undermined Beijing's leadership over the developing bloc of countries. In anger, Chinese officials responded that such demands were an insult to China and would be a violation of Chinese sovereignty and national interests. Wen had been outflanked and was angry, even leaving the conference centre and subsequently snubbing Obama in a couple of previously planned bilateral and multinational meetings involving the US president.Which raises the question: why the extreme response? China has long been engaging in a dangerous game of manipulating important economic numbers and concealing domestic commercial realities. Despite all its progress over 30 years, Beijing is afraid to shine too bright a light in dark places, and even more afraid that outsiders might be allowed to do so. In important respects, the government actually embraces opaqueness as a perceived advantage. The thought of \"transparent verification\" was seen as the thin end of the wedge, allowing outside experts broad authority to peer into the workings of middle China.Teams of international economists, scientists, inspectors and statisticians roaming China to gather information on carbon emissions and reduction initiatives would have been unprecedented. In promoting China, Beijing projects an image of order and competence to the world. In parts of its wealthier coastal cities, China is that. But these international teams would undoubtedly discover exactly how dysfunctional the heart of the country really is. They would see first hand and report back how China's 45 million local officials remain the most formidable obstacle to improving transparency in China's sprawling economic structure \u2013 protecting their turf, defending their privileges, arbitrarily enforcing the law, and when it comes to economic performance blatantly cooking the books. Beijing still wants to assure outsiders that it remains in charge even though in important respects it is not.This lack of accountability and transparency strikes at the heart of China's credibility in any global climate change agenda. Wen would not want foreign experts reporting to political masters in America and Europe that Beijing's capacity for compelling local officials and locally managed, state-controlled enterprises \u2013 some 120,000 companies and countless other subsidiaries \u2013 to implement climate change initiatives is extremely low. This would simply strengthen suspicions that decentralised China cannot actually honour future commitments despite promises that it intends to.Then there is the further problem of cheating in current and future carbon reduction schemes. Developed countries need to feel confident that incentives offered to developing countries to cut emissions (in both absolute terms and emissions relative to economic growth) can be verified. Indeed, earlier this month, the UN body in charge of the clean development mechanism \u2013 a proviso under the Kyoto protocol allowing developed countries to purchase carbon offsets for funding \"clean energy\" developments elsewhere \u2013 suspended approvals for dozens of Chinese windfarms over suspicions that China had held back the building of planned windfarms and deliberately lowered previously allocated subsidies to make the wind farms eligible for earning credits \u2013 industrial policies that would disqualify these farms from benefiting under the scheme. China has so far received carbon credits worth more than $1bn, which is almost half of the total issued under the UN-run programme.China's government has vigorously denied that it is attempting to illegitimately manipulate the scheme. But the point is that there is no system for independent and external verification; nor is Beijing proposing to allow one. Meanwhile, China had previously pledged that 15% (and possibly 20%) of its energy would come from renewable sources by 2020 and that special efforts would be made to close dirty power plants and impose world-class vehicle efficiency standards and proposed various other measures to cut emissions. Again, developed countries suspect that China will receive plaudits and concessions from any future carbon emissions regime without actually keeping its promises.Alas, given the desperation to announce a \"deal\", Obama backed down. The so-called \"Copenhagen accord\" merely compels developing nations to self-report their emissions every two years and allow outside scrutiny of the data. China is off the hook for the moment, but whether this is enough to satisfy the US Congress when deciding whether to approve any future binding agreement is another matter.", "tags": ["China", "US foreign policy", "Copenhagen climate change conference 2009", "Climate change", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Carbon offsetting", "Renewable energy", "Environment", "World news", "Global climate talks", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China fears climate change openness | John Lee"},{"date": "2009-11-27T07:46:17Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has executed two men for abducting and selling 15 children, many of whom have yet to be reunited with their families, state media reported today.Thousands of children go missing each year in China, although authorities have recently stepped up efforts to tackle the problem. The cultural preference for male heirs and birth control restrictions have created a demand for baby boys, but experts say both sexes are abducted as labour or to beg for gangs, and girls are also taken as wives for unwed men.Hu Minghua, 55, was convicted of kidnapping and selling nine children between 1999 and 2005, the state news agency Xinhua reported, citing a statement from the supreme people's court.Five of the children, all boys now aged from three to six, have been returned to their families, but the parents of the remaining four have yet to be found.Su Binde, 27, was convicted of abducting six children in 2005 and 2006. But while five were rescued by police, the sixth is still missing.Su was also convicted of leading six robberies and twelve thefts and kidnapping a taxi driver who escaped but died 10 days later, according to a court statement.Both men were executed yesterday morning, Xinhua said. They were both detained in 2006.Parents have often complained that the authorities have done little to help when their children have gone missing.But earlier this year Chinese police launched a crackdown on the trafficking of women and children. They say they have rescued around 2,000 children since the campaign began and state media have reported on the ensuing rescues, arrests and in some cases, reunions.In October, the ministry of public security set up a website to reunite dozens of rescued but unidentified children with their families. It has also created a national DNA database. Xinhua said 1,714 people were punished for abducting and trafficking children in the first 10 months of the year, citing figures from the supreme court.The court's spokesman Wang Shaonan said the number of cases had risen 11.25% compared with the same period last year, to 1,107 trials.He warned that child trafficking was on the rise and that gangs were becoming more organised.", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China executes two child traffickers"},{"date": "2009-10-27T11:48:52Z", "country": "china", "content": "The Chinese government has confirmed it executed two Tibetans for deadly arson attacks during last year's unrest in Lhasa \u2013 the first reported judicial killings in the region for six years.A foreign ministry spokesman, Ma Zhaoxu, said two men had been put to death, and declined to provide further details. Overseas Tibetan groups have identified the dead as Lobsang Gyaltsen and Loyak.Lobsang Gyaltsen was sentenced to death this year for an arson attack that killed a shop owner in Lhasa, according to a report at the time by Xinhua news agency. Loyak was handed the same penalty for starting a blaze at a motorcycle shop that killed five people, the agency said.The US-funded Radio Free Asia said Lobsang Gyaltsen was allowed a visit by his mother before he was executed. \"I have nothing to say, except please take good care of my child and send him to school,\" he was quoted as telling her.There has been no confirmation of two other executions reported last Thursday by the campaign group Free Tibet.The British Foreign Office minister Ivan Lewis condemned the executions. \"We respect China's right to bring those responsible for the violence in Tibet last year to justice.\"But the UK opposes the death penalty in all circumstances, and we have consistently raised our concerns about lack of due process in these cases in particular,\" he said.", "tags": ["Tibet", "China", "Capital punishment", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China confirms two Tibet executions"},{"date": "2009-12-29T04:11:27Z", "country": "china", "content": "China was this morning condemned for its human rights record after a British man who, his supporters say, had mental health problems, was executed for smuggling drugs.Akmal Shaikh, 53, was put to death at 10.30am local time (2.30am British time) after frantic last-minute pleas for clemency by the Foreign Office failed.Britain had demonstrated its anger with Beijing over the treatment of Shaikh, who had smuggled 4kg (8.8lb) of heroin into China, when it summoned the Chinese ambassador for a diplomatic dressing down at the Foreign Office.In what was described as a \"full and frank exchange of views\", the Foreign Office minister Ivan Lewis asked Fu Ying for clemency and outlined Britain's concern that China had not taken Shaikh's mental health into consideration.Hours before the deadline \u2013 and after voicing Britain's opposition to the death penalty in a telephone call to his Chinese counterpart \u2013 Lewis told the ambassador that it was \"not right\" that Shaikh's mental health had been overlooked by the court that sentenced him.Speaking after meeting the ambassador, in Britain's 27th representation to China on the case, Lewis said: \"China fully understands the strength of feeling in this country and around the world.\"But the ambassador made clear that the Chinese judiciary was independent of the government and that the supreme court had made its decision. On Shaikh's mental health, she said all his paperwork had been fed into the judicial process, which had now taken its course.As MPs lined up to criticise China's action, a spokesman for the embassy said Shaikh had been found with more than 4kg of heroin, and being caught with 50g of heroin was enough for the death penalty under Chinese law.Downing Street said Britain had done \"everything within its power\" to secure a fair trial and clemency for Shaikh, who was found guilty of drug smuggling in 2007. \"The prime minister has intervened personally on a number of occasions: he has raised the case with Premier Wen [Jiabao], most recently at the Copenhagen summit, and has written several times to President Hu [Jintao],\" a spokesman said.MPs were scathing about China. Ken Purchase, a former Foreign Office ministerial aide and a member of the Commons foreign affairs select committee, called China's actions \"absolutely regrettable\", adding that the country was trying to position itself in the mainstream of international affairs while persisting with \"barbaric actions\".Gisela Stuart, a former Labour minister who also sits on the foreign affairs select committee, said: \"When it comes to questions of human rights in China there is still the most enormous gap.\"Shaikh was informed of his death sentence yesterday when British consular officials accompanied two of his cousins Soohail Shaikh and Nasir Shaikh, to the secure hospital in Urumqi where he was being held. His death sentence marks the first time an EU national has been executed in China in 50 years.In a statement after the meeting, they said: \"He was obviously very upset on hearing from us of the sentence. We strongly feel that he's not rational and he needs medication. We feel a pardon would allow Akmal to get the medical assistance he needs.\" The family filed a last-minute petition for a stay of execution and an application for a special pardon to China's supreme court, to the president, and to the standing committee of the people's national congressNational People's Congress orthe parliament.Shaikh, a father of three, was arrested in Urumqi in September 2007 and charged with drug smuggling. He lost a final appeal last week, but campaigners claim his mental illness was not taken into account.The anti-death-penalty organisation Reprieve said it had medical evidence that Shaikh believed he was going to China in 2007 to record a hit single that would usher in world peace. It said he was duped into carrying a suitcase packed with heroin on a flight from Tajikistan to Urumqi.As the hours counted down to his execution, witnesses gave more evidence of Shaikh's strange behaviour in the past.Paul Newberry, a British national who lives in Poland, described how Shaikh while there had lived in a fantasy world: \"He had no money but was never desperate for it. He was clearly not desperate enough to smuggle heroin to China.\"", "tags": ["China", "UK news", "Capital punishment", "Society", "Bipolar disorder", "World news", "Mental health", "Life and style", "Yemen", "Al-Qaida", "Alan Johnson", "Labour", "Politics", "US national security", "US news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Fury as China executes British drug smuggler"},{"date": "2009-12-28T18:30:21Z", "country": "china", "content": "How many executions does China carry out each year?Almost three times as many as the rest of the world put together, according to the most conservative estimate by Amnesty International. In 2008, the group confirmed 1,718 executions through news reports and public documents, but many others are not reported. Some analysts say the figure may be above 6,000. The exact number is a state secret.How often are foreigners executed? According to Reprieve, Akmal Shaikh could be the first national from a European Union country to be executed in China in decades. But with few public records, this is hard to confirm.How are executions carried out?There are two possibilities. China is in the process of shifting from death by firing squad to lethal injection. The former can be messy and public affairs. Convicts are taken into a field where crowds watch as they are shot in the back of the head by rifle at short range. Since 1997, however, judicial killings have increasingly been carried out with the same lethal drugs used in the US.What are conditions like on death row?This too is shrouded in secrecy, but the condemned are said to be kept at least part of the time in shackles. Stays tend to be a lot shorter than in other countries. Once a sentence is confirmed, the law states that the execution should be carried out within a week.How worried are the Chinese authorities about drug trafficking?This is one of the few offences that carry a mandatory death sentence. Drug abuse is rising. Heroin is a growing problem, particularly in Xinjiang, near the Afghan border. The heroin trade has dark associations for China. The nationalist Global Times said the case was sensitive \"because it brings back the black memory of the opium war started by the British more than a century ago that dragged our country through a lengthy nightmarish period\". A Chinese embassy spokesman in the UK also stressed this point: \"China has the bitter memory of drug problems, and is still facing severe situations which undermine the social stability,\" he said.Why didn't the judges accept requests by the defence that Shaikh be evaluated to assess claims that he had bipolar disorder and delusional psychosis?This is the question that will hang over this case and do the most damage to relations between China and the UK. Under Chinese law, punishments can be reduced or voided if criminals are unable to recognise or control their misconduct. Yet this was ignored during Shaikh's initial 30-minute trial. At a second trial, judges were said to have laughed at the erratic 50-minute speech given by Shaikh, but they refused requests by UK consulate-appointed lawyers for a mental examination. By contrast, an American man who killed his Chinese wife a few years ago was given a reduced sentence because the lower court accept that he was a paranoid-schizophrenic. By the time this became an issue in Shaikh's case, it may have been too high-profile for the authorities to do anything without looking like they were backing down.", "tags": ["China", "Capital punishment", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Q&A: Capital punishment in China"},{"date": "2010-03-30T12:30:53Z", "country": "china", "content": "You might have heard it said that China executes more people than all other countries in the world put together. Not just a handful, but thousands and thousands of people every single year. This, broadly, is true.But suppose you actually wanted to find out exactly how many people the People's Republic executes annually. Any chance of getting this information? No. Try asking the Chinese authorities, and you'll get a stern \"it's a state secret\" rebuff. If you happened to get hold of some solid information (from lawyers in China, for example) you'd then be in possession of a state secret which it would be illegal to make public. It's basically as if there's a super-injunction on the information \u2013 not just on the actual information, but anything relating to it.Amnesty's new report on the death penalty worldwide does its best to cut through the secrecy by estimating that there were \"thousands\" of executions in China in 2009. Based on sources \u2013 which we can't, for safety's sake, reveal \u2013 this seems reasonable. But it's still a rough and ready guesstimate. Amazing, given the seriousness of the topic.China likes to have it both ways. It's been boasting that it has reformed its capital punishment system and that execution numbers are down. But it won't give any figures.One thing we know \u2013 more or less \u2013 is that there are approximately 68 offences in China for which you can receive a death sentence. Many are not for lethal crimes \u2013 as we saw with the shocking execution of the British man Akmal Shaikh in December for alleged drugs offences. China's capital crimes reportedly include reselling forged VAT receipts, causing damage to public property, and cattle rustling. Three years ago a man was sentenced to death for selling overpriced ants.However, I don't think a full list exists. That would be far too open for the Chinese authorities. If a proper source ever comes to light, it will be interesting to see if \"revealing a state secret, including information about the People's Republic of China's use of capital punishment\" is included as a capital crime. It wouldn't surprise me \u2013 this Catch 22-like paradox would suit China's secretive use of the death penalty down to the ground.But here's an ominous thought. State secrets are normally things like defence matters or intelligence issues. What, then, is China so keen to hide on the death penalty?Could it be that the numbers of people in China going to their deaths before firing squads and in mobile lethal injection chambers is actually far higher than we already feared?", "tags": ["China", "Capital punishment", "Human rights", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "How many does China execute? | Kate Allen"},{"date": "2010-03-30T12:30:53Z", "country": "china", "content": "You might have heard it said that China executes more people than all other countries in the world put together. Not just a handful, but thousands and thousands of people every single year. This, broadly, is true.But suppose you actually wanted to find out exactly how many people the People's Republic executes annually. Any chance of getting this information? No. Try asking the Chinese authorities, and you'll get a stern \"it's a state secret\" rebuff. If you happened to get hold of some solid information (from lawyers in China, for example) you'd then be in possession of a state secret which it would be illegal to make public. It's basically as if there's a super-injunction on the information \u2013 not just on the actual information, but anything relating to it.Amnesty's new report on the death penalty worldwide does its best to cut through the secrecy by estimating that there were \"thousands\" of executions in China in 2009. Based on sources \u2013 which we can't, for safety's sake, reveal \u2013 this seems reasonable. But it's still a rough and ready guesstimate. Amazing, given the seriousness of the topic.China likes to have it both ways. It's been boasting that it has reformed its capital punishment system and that execution numbers are down. But it won't give any figures.One thing we know \u2013 more or less \u2013 is that there are approximately 68 offences in China for which you can receive a death sentence. Many are not for lethal crimes \u2013 as we saw with the shocking execution of the British man Akmal Shaikh in December for alleged drugs offences. China's capital crimes reportedly include reselling forged VAT receipts, causing damage to public property, and cattle rustling. Three years ago a man was sentenced to death for selling overpriced ants.However, I don't think a full list exists. That would be far too open for the Chinese authorities. If a proper source ever comes to light, it will be interesting to see if \"revealing a state secret, including information about the People's Republic of China's use of capital punishment\" is included as a capital crime. It wouldn't surprise me \u2013 this Catch 22-like paradox would suit China's secretive use of the death penalty down to the ground.But here's an ominous thought. State secrets are normally things like defence matters or intelligence issues. What, then, is China so keen to hide on the death penalty?Could it be that the numbers of people in China going to their deaths before firing squads and in mobile lethal injection chambers is actually far higher than we already feared?", "tags": ["China", "Capital punishment", "Human rights", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "How many does China execute? | Kate Allen"},{"date": "2010-03-29T19:40:11Z", "country": "china", "content": "So, the \"Rio Tinto four\" are guilty and the company accepts the verdict of the Shanghai number one people's intermediate court. Rio said the evidence presented in court showed \"beyond doubt\" that the four had accepted bribes. Chief executive Tom Albanese condemned \"the deplorable behaviour\" of his employees and hoped that their \"unacceptable conduct\" would not damage Rio's efforts \"to build its important relationship with China\".Fair enough. But it would have been better if Rio had also summoned the courage to echo a point made by Stephen Smith, the Australian foreign minister, who said the closure to the outside world of the commercial secrets part of the trial (as opposed to the part-dealing with the bribery allegations) left \"serious unanswered questions\".Smith is right and the failure of Rio, in its rush to rebuild bridges, to make that additional point is regrettable.The reality for western workers in China \u2013 not just at Rio \u2013 is that they work in the dark. Nobody can be sure what, legally, constitutes a commercial secret. Is it all right to hold information on a computer about past iron ore pricing agreements, even if such information is the public domain? Or is that stealing?This high-profile trial was a missed opportunity to exert some pressure on the Chinese authorities to shed light on this vital area. Employees in China know what to expect if they accept bribes \u2013 but they have always known that. The Chinese definition of a \"commercial secret\" remains as mysterious as ever.", "tags": ["Business", "Rio Tinto", "China", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Rio Tinto suffers China syndrome"},{"date": "2010-03-30T12:30:53Z", "country": "china", "content": "You might have heard it said that China executes more people than all other countries in the world put together. Not just a handful, but thousands and thousands of people every single year. This, broadly, is true.But suppose you actually wanted to find out exactly how many people the People's Republic executes annually. Any chance of getting this information? No. Try asking the Chinese authorities, and you'll get a stern \"it's a state secret\" rebuff. If you happened to get hold of some solid information (from lawyers in China, for example) you'd then be in possession of a state secret which it would be illegal to make public. It's basically as if there's a super-injunction on the information \u2013 not just on the actual information, but anything relating to it.Amnesty's new report on the death penalty worldwide does its best to cut through the secrecy by estimating that there were \"thousands\" of executions in China in 2009. Based on sources \u2013 which we can't, for safety's sake, reveal \u2013 this seems reasonable. But it's still a rough and ready guesstimate. Amazing, given the seriousness of the topic.China likes to have it both ways. It's been boasting that it has reformed its capital punishment system and that execution numbers are down. But it won't give any figures.One thing we know \u2013 more or less \u2013 is that there are approximately 68 offences in China for which you can receive a death sentence. Many are not for lethal crimes \u2013 as we saw with the shocking execution of the British man Akmal Shaikh in December for alleged drugs offences. China's capital crimes reportedly include reselling forged VAT receipts, causing damage to public property, and cattle rustling. Three years ago a man was sentenced to death for selling overpriced ants.However, I don't think a full list exists. That would be far too open for the Chinese authorities. If a proper source ever comes to light, it will be interesting to see if \"revealing a state secret, including information about the People's Republic of China's use of capital punishment\" is included as a capital crime. It wouldn't surprise me \u2013 this Catch 22-like paradox would suit China's secretive use of the death penalty down to the ground.But here's an ominous thought. State secrets are normally things like defence matters or intelligence issues. What, then, is China so keen to hide on the death penalty?Could it be that the numbers of people in China going to their deaths before firing squads and in mobile lethal injection chambers is actually far higher than we already feared?", "tags": ["China", "Capital punishment", "Human rights", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "How many does China execute? | Kate Allen"},{"date": "2010-03-29T19:40:11Z", "country": "china", "content": "So, the \"Rio Tinto four\" are guilty and the company accepts the verdict of the Shanghai number one people's intermediate court. Rio said the evidence presented in court showed \"beyond doubt\" that the four had accepted bribes. Chief executive Tom Albanese condemned \"the deplorable behaviour\" of his employees and hoped that their \"unacceptable conduct\" would not damage Rio's efforts \"to build its important relationship with China\".Fair enough. But it would have been better if Rio had also summoned the courage to echo a point made by Stephen Smith, the Australian foreign minister, who said the closure to the outside world of the commercial secrets part of the trial (as opposed to the part-dealing with the bribery allegations) left \"serious unanswered questions\".Smith is right and the failure of Rio, in its rush to rebuild bridges, to make that additional point is regrettable.The reality for western workers in China \u2013 not just at Rio \u2013 is that they work in the dark. Nobody can be sure what, legally, constitutes a commercial secret. Is it all right to hold information on a computer about past iron ore pricing agreements, even if such information is the public domain? Or is that stealing?This high-profile trial was a missed opportunity to exert some pressure on the Chinese authorities to shed light on this vital area. Employees in China know what to expect if they accept bribes \u2013 but they have always known that. The Chinese definition of a \"commercial secret\" remains as mysterious as ever.", "tags": ["Business", "Rio Tinto", "China", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Rio Tinto suffers China syndrome"},{"date": "2010-01-14T13:04:31Z", "country": "china", "content": "China launches a crackdown on \"vulgar\" websites including Google that it says have failed to censor inappropriate content.As the drive intensifies, observers warn it is affecting politically sensitive content too.Later in the month, Chinese media censors the inauguration speech of the US president, Barack Obama: state TV cuts away from the live feed after a reference to communism and leading websites remove the word from translated texts.China blocks YouTube after denouncing as \"a lie\" footage appearing to show security forces beating Tibetans in Lhasa last year.China blocks Twitter, Flickr and Hotmail days ahead of the 20th anniversary on the bloody military crackdown on pro-democracy protests in Tiananmen Square.Later in the month it blocks Google services, with search functions and Gmail inaccessible for over an hour.The biggest news of all is the massive outcry as the government orders PC makers to install its controversial censorship software, Green Dam.Following complaints from internet users, businesses and foreign governments the authorities back down, saying it will not be compulsory.Internet access is cut across the entire north-western region, home to more than 19 million people, after deadly ethnic riots in its capital.Some sites are later restored but as of January 2010 access remains extremely restricted.Facebook reports access problems and remains inaccessible from China as of January 2010.Later in the month the government says it plans to implement a five-year programme advocating clean online games, starting in 2010. It bans websites featuring or publicising online games that \"glamorise mafia gangs\".The government drops its plan to install the controversial Green Dam software on every new computer sold in China, despite official comments the previous month that it would go ahead after all.It emerges that news websites in China have begun requiring new users to register their true identities before allowing them to post comments.Obama criticises internet controls during his visit to China, describing himself as \"a big supporter of non-censorship\".The government says its campaign against pornography on the web and through mobile Wap sites will continue until May 2010.It later emerges China has issued new internet regulations, including what some interpret as an attempt to create a \"whitelist\" of approved websites that could potentially place much of the internet off-limits to Chinese readers, and ordering domain management institutions and internet service providers to tighten controls over domain name registration.At the end of the month police say the crackdown on internet porn has brought 5,394 arrests and 4,186 criminal case investigations during 2009.", "tags": ["China", "Censorship", "Internet", "Google", "World news", "Technology", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Internet censorship in China"},{"date": "2010-03-30T12:30:53Z", "country": "china", "content": "You might have heard it said that China executes more people than all other countries in the world put together. Not just a handful, but thousands and thousands of people every single year. This, broadly, is true.But suppose you actually wanted to find out exactly how many people the People's Republic executes annually. Any chance of getting this information? No. Try asking the Chinese authorities, and you'll get a stern \"it's a state secret\" rebuff. If you happened to get hold of some solid information (from lawyers in China, for example) you'd then be in possession of a state secret which it would be illegal to make public. It's basically as if there's a super-injunction on the information \u2013 not just on the actual information, but anything relating to it.Amnesty's new report on the death penalty worldwide does its best to cut through the secrecy by estimating that there were \"thousands\" of executions in China in 2009. Based on sources \u2013 which we can't, for safety's sake, reveal \u2013 this seems reasonable. But it's still a rough and ready guesstimate. Amazing, given the seriousness of the topic.China likes to have it both ways. It's been boasting that it has reformed its capital punishment system and that execution numbers are down. But it won't give any figures.One thing we know \u2013 more or less \u2013 is that there are approximately 68 offences in China for which you can receive a death sentence. Many are not for lethal crimes \u2013 as we saw with the shocking execution of the British man Akmal Shaikh in December for alleged drugs offences. China's capital crimes reportedly include reselling forged VAT receipts, causing damage to public property, and cattle rustling. Three years ago a man was sentenced to death for selling overpriced ants.However, I don't think a full list exists. That would be far too open for the Chinese authorities. If a proper source ever comes to light, it will be interesting to see if \"revealing a state secret, including information about the People's Republic of China's use of capital punishment\" is included as a capital crime. It wouldn't surprise me \u2013 this Catch 22-like paradox would suit China's secretive use of the death penalty down to the ground.But here's an ominous thought. State secrets are normally things like defence matters or intelligence issues. What, then, is China so keen to hide on the death penalty?Could it be that the numbers of people in China going to their deaths before firing squads and in mobile lethal injection chambers is actually far higher than we already feared?", "tags": ["China", "Capital punishment", "Human rights", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "How many does China execute? | Kate Allen"},{"date": "2010-03-29T19:40:11Z", "country": "china", "content": "So, the \"Rio Tinto four\" are guilty and the company accepts the verdict of the Shanghai number one people's intermediate court. Rio said the evidence presented in court showed \"beyond doubt\" that the four had accepted bribes. Chief executive Tom Albanese condemned \"the deplorable behaviour\" of his employees and hoped that their \"unacceptable conduct\" would not damage Rio's efforts \"to build its important relationship with China\".Fair enough. But it would have been better if Rio had also summoned the courage to echo a point made by Stephen Smith, the Australian foreign minister, who said the closure to the outside world of the commercial secrets part of the trial (as opposed to the part-dealing with the bribery allegations) left \"serious unanswered questions\".Smith is right and the failure of Rio, in its rush to rebuild bridges, to make that additional point is regrettable.The reality for western workers in China \u2013 not just at Rio \u2013 is that they work in the dark. Nobody can be sure what, legally, constitutes a commercial secret. Is it all right to hold information on a computer about past iron ore pricing agreements, even if such information is the public domain? Or is that stealing?This high-profile trial was a missed opportunity to exert some pressure on the Chinese authorities to shed light on this vital area. Employees in China know what to expect if they accept bribes \u2013 but they have always known that. The Chinese definition of a \"commercial secret\" remains as mysterious as ever.", "tags": ["Business", "Rio Tinto", "China", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Rio Tinto suffers China syndrome"},{"date": "2010-01-14T13:04:31Z", "country": "china", "content": "China launches a crackdown on \"vulgar\" websites including Google that it says have failed to censor inappropriate content.As the drive intensifies, observers warn it is affecting politically sensitive content too.Later in the month, Chinese media censors the inauguration speech of the US president, Barack Obama: state TV cuts away from the live feed after a reference to communism and leading websites remove the word from translated texts.China blocks YouTube after denouncing as \"a lie\" footage appearing to show security forces beating Tibetans in Lhasa last year.China blocks Twitter, Flickr and Hotmail days ahead of the 20th anniversary on the bloody military crackdown on pro-democracy protests in Tiananmen Square.Later in the month it blocks Google services, with search functions and Gmail inaccessible for over an hour.The biggest news of all is the massive outcry as the government orders PC makers to install its controversial censorship software, Green Dam.Following complaints from internet users, businesses and foreign governments the authorities back down, saying it will not be compulsory.Internet access is cut across the entire north-western region, home to more than 19 million people, after deadly ethnic riots in its capital.Some sites are later restored but as of January 2010 access remains extremely restricted.Facebook reports access problems and remains inaccessible from China as of January 2010.Later in the month the government says it plans to implement a five-year programme advocating clean online games, starting in 2010. It bans websites featuring or publicising online games that \"glamorise mafia gangs\".The government drops its plan to install the controversial Green Dam software on every new computer sold in China, despite official comments the previous month that it would go ahead after all.It emerges that news websites in China have begun requiring new users to register their true identities before allowing them to post comments.Obama criticises internet controls during his visit to China, describing himself as \"a big supporter of non-censorship\".The government says its campaign against pornography on the web and through mobile Wap sites will continue until May 2010.It later emerges China has issued new internet regulations, including what some interpret as an attempt to create a \"whitelist\" of approved websites that could potentially place much of the internet off-limits to Chinese readers, and ordering domain management institutions and internet service providers to tighten controls over domain name registration.At the end of the month police say the crackdown on internet porn has brought 5,394 arrests and 4,186 criminal case investigations during 2009.", "tags": ["China", "Censorship", "Internet", "Google", "World news", "Technology", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Internet censorship in China"},{"date": "2010-01-07T16:37:17Z", "country": "china", "content": "A Chinese court has jailed a Tibetan filmmaker for six years after he made a documentary critical of Beijing's policies, friends and campaigners said today.Dhongdup Wangchen and his friend Golog Jigme, a monk, were detained shortly after completing Leaving Fear Behind, which highlighted Tibetan anger with Chinese policies before the Olympics. The tapes had already been smuggled out of the country.The films featured interviews with ordinary Tibetans who expressed their love for the Dalai Lama, their exiled spiritual leader, and said the Olympics would do little to improve their lives. \"The Chinese say they have made improvements in Tibet. But we don't see any improvement at all,\" Wangchen said in the documentary. \"The truth is that Tibetans are not free to speak of their suffering.\"A statement placed on a website promoting the film said the 35-year-old filmmaker was sentenced on 28 December in Xining, provincial capital of Qinghai, where there is a large Tibetan population. His family said he was jailed for subversion. They found out about the sentencing only recently, Wangpo Tethong, a friend living in exile, told Associated Press.Calls to the Xining Intermediate People's Court were unanswered.Li Dunyong, a lawyer hired by the family but replaced with a government appointee by authorities, told AP the filmmaker had appealed. In a statement posted on the film's website, Wangchen's wife, Lhama Tso, who is living in exile in India, said: \"I appeal to the court in Xining to allow my husband to have a legal representative of his own choosing.\"My children and I feel desperate about the prospect of not being able to see him for so many years. We call on the Chinese authorities to show humanity by releasing him. My husband is not a criminal, he just tried to show the truth.\"Wangchen was arrested in March 2008, shortly before riots erupted in Lhasa and spread across other Tibetan areas outside the autonomous region.A Chinese foreign ministry spokeswoman, Jiang Yu, said that while she had not heard of the case, all Chinese citizens enjoyed basic rights, including freedom of speech. She told a news briefing in Beijing: \"You will only be punished if you break the law.\"", "tags": ["China", "Tibet", "Dalai Lama", "World news", "Documentary", "Film", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China jails Tibetan filmmaker"},{"date": "2010-03-30T12:30:53Z", "country": "china", "content": "You might have heard it said that China executes more people than all other countries in the world put together. Not just a handful, but thousands and thousands of people every single year. This, broadly, is true.But suppose you actually wanted to find out exactly how many people the People's Republic executes annually. Any chance of getting this information? No. Try asking the Chinese authorities, and you'll get a stern \"it's a state secret\" rebuff. If you happened to get hold of some solid information (from lawyers in China, for example) you'd then be in possession of a state secret which it would be illegal to make public. It's basically as if there's a super-injunction on the information \u2013 not just on the actual information, but anything relating to it.Amnesty's new report on the death penalty worldwide does its best to cut through the secrecy by estimating that there were \"thousands\" of executions in China in 2009. Based on sources \u2013 which we can't, for safety's sake, reveal \u2013 this seems reasonable. But it's still a rough and ready guesstimate. Amazing, given the seriousness of the topic.China likes to have it both ways. It's been boasting that it has reformed its capital punishment system and that execution numbers are down. But it won't give any figures.One thing we know \u2013 more or less \u2013 is that there are approximately 68 offences in China for which you can receive a death sentence. Many are not for lethal crimes \u2013 as we saw with the shocking execution of the British man Akmal Shaikh in December for alleged drugs offences. China's capital crimes reportedly include reselling forged VAT receipts, causing damage to public property, and cattle rustling. Three years ago a man was sentenced to death for selling overpriced ants.However, I don't think a full list exists. That would be far too open for the Chinese authorities. If a proper source ever comes to light, it will be interesting to see if \"revealing a state secret, including information about the People's Republic of China's use of capital punishment\" is included as a capital crime. It wouldn't surprise me \u2013 this Catch 22-like paradox would suit China's secretive use of the death penalty down to the ground.But here's an ominous thought. State secrets are normally things like defence matters or intelligence issues. What, then, is China so keen to hide on the death penalty?Could it be that the numbers of people in China going to their deaths before firing squads and in mobile lethal injection chambers is actually far higher than we already feared?", "tags": ["China", "Capital punishment", "Human rights", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "How many does China execute? | Kate Allen"},{"date": "2010-03-29T19:40:11Z", "country": "china", "content": "So, the \"Rio Tinto four\" are guilty and the company accepts the verdict of the Shanghai number one people's intermediate court. Rio said the evidence presented in court showed \"beyond doubt\" that the four had accepted bribes. Chief executive Tom Albanese condemned \"the deplorable behaviour\" of his employees and hoped that their \"unacceptable conduct\" would not damage Rio's efforts \"to build its important relationship with China\".Fair enough. But it would have been better if Rio had also summoned the courage to echo a point made by Stephen Smith, the Australian foreign minister, who said the closure to the outside world of the commercial secrets part of the trial (as opposed to the part-dealing with the bribery allegations) left \"serious unanswered questions\".Smith is right and the failure of Rio, in its rush to rebuild bridges, to make that additional point is regrettable.The reality for western workers in China \u2013 not just at Rio \u2013 is that they work in the dark. Nobody can be sure what, legally, constitutes a commercial secret. Is it all right to hold information on a computer about past iron ore pricing agreements, even if such information is the public domain? Or is that stealing?This high-profile trial was a missed opportunity to exert some pressure on the Chinese authorities to shed light on this vital area. Employees in China know what to expect if they accept bribes \u2013 but they have always known that. The Chinese definition of a \"commercial secret\" remains as mysterious as ever.", "tags": ["Business", "Rio Tinto", "China", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Rio Tinto suffers China syndrome"},{"date": "2010-01-14T13:04:31Z", "country": "china", "content": "China launches a crackdown on \"vulgar\" websites including Google that it says have failed to censor inappropriate content.As the drive intensifies, observers warn it is affecting politically sensitive content too.Later in the month, Chinese media censors the inauguration speech of the US president, Barack Obama: state TV cuts away from the live feed after a reference to communism and leading websites remove the word from translated texts.China blocks YouTube after denouncing as \"a lie\" footage appearing to show security forces beating Tibetans in Lhasa last year.China blocks Twitter, Flickr and Hotmail days ahead of the 20th anniversary on the bloody military crackdown on pro-democracy protests in Tiananmen Square.Later in the month it blocks Google services, with search functions and Gmail inaccessible for over an hour.The biggest news of all is the massive outcry as the government orders PC makers to install its controversial censorship software, Green Dam.Following complaints from internet users, businesses and foreign governments the authorities back down, saying it will not be compulsory.Internet access is cut across the entire north-western region, home to more than 19 million people, after deadly ethnic riots in its capital.Some sites are later restored but as of January 2010 access remains extremely restricted.Facebook reports access problems and remains inaccessible from China as of January 2010.Later in the month the government says it plans to implement a five-year programme advocating clean online games, starting in 2010. It bans websites featuring or publicising online games that \"glamorise mafia gangs\".The government drops its plan to install the controversial Green Dam software on every new computer sold in China, despite official comments the previous month that it would go ahead after all.It emerges that news websites in China have begun requiring new users to register their true identities before allowing them to post comments.Obama criticises internet controls during his visit to China, describing himself as \"a big supporter of non-censorship\".The government says its campaign against pornography on the web and through mobile Wap sites will continue until May 2010.It later emerges China has issued new internet regulations, including what some interpret as an attempt to create a \"whitelist\" of approved websites that could potentially place much of the internet off-limits to Chinese readers, and ordering domain management institutions and internet service providers to tighten controls over domain name registration.At the end of the month police say the crackdown on internet porn has brought 5,394 arrests and 4,186 criminal case investigations during 2009.", "tags": ["China", "Censorship", "Internet", "Google", "World news", "Technology", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Internet censorship in China"},{"date": "2010-01-07T16:37:17Z", "country": "china", "content": "A Chinese court has jailed a Tibetan filmmaker for six years after he made a documentary critical of Beijing's policies, friends and campaigners said today.Dhongdup Wangchen and his friend Golog Jigme, a monk, were detained shortly after completing Leaving Fear Behind, which highlighted Tibetan anger with Chinese policies before the Olympics. The tapes had already been smuggled out of the country.The films featured interviews with ordinary Tibetans who expressed their love for the Dalai Lama, their exiled spiritual leader, and said the Olympics would do little to improve their lives. \"The Chinese say they have made improvements in Tibet. But we don't see any improvement at all,\" Wangchen said in the documentary. \"The truth is that Tibetans are not free to speak of their suffering.\"A statement placed on a website promoting the film said the 35-year-old filmmaker was sentenced on 28 December in Xining, provincial capital of Qinghai, where there is a large Tibetan population. His family said he was jailed for subversion. They found out about the sentencing only recently, Wangpo Tethong, a friend living in exile, told Associated Press.Calls to the Xining Intermediate People's Court were unanswered.Li Dunyong, a lawyer hired by the family but replaced with a government appointee by authorities, told AP the filmmaker had appealed. In a statement posted on the film's website, Wangchen's wife, Lhama Tso, who is living in exile in India, said: \"I appeal to the court in Xining to allow my husband to have a legal representative of his own choosing.\"My children and I feel desperate about the prospect of not being able to see him for so many years. We call on the Chinese authorities to show humanity by releasing him. My husband is not a criminal, he just tried to show the truth.\"Wangchen was arrested in March 2008, shortly before riots erupted in Lhasa and spread across other Tibetan areas outside the autonomous region.A Chinese foreign ministry spokeswoman, Jiang Yu, said that while she had not heard of the case, all Chinese citizens enjoyed basic rights, including freedom of speech. She told a news briefing in Beijing: \"You will only be punished if you break the law.\"", "tags": ["China", "Tibet", "Dalai Lama", "World news", "Documentary", "Film", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China jails Tibetan filmmaker"},{"date": "2010-02-10T20:31:01Z", "country": "china", "content": "China today charged four employees of mining firm Rio Tinto with \u00adbribery, thereby quashing the comforting notion that a highly sensitive case could be defused behind closed doors by the diplomats.Rio, for now at least, is obliged to maintain its public faith in Chinese justice. Anything else might jeopardise the position of its detained employees, who include Stern Hu, an Australian national.The softly-softly approach, however, would clearly have to be abandoned if Hu and the others were convicted, since Rio's unswerving stance has been that the detained employees \"acted at all times with integrity and in accordance with Rio Tinto's strict and publicly stated code of ethical behaviour\".Rio's public statements to date have also made a point of mentioning that the company continues to ship high \u00adlevels of iron ore to China from \u00adAustralia. The implication, one assumes, is that it would stop shipments if the four were convicted. Frankly, no other policy would be credible.Such drama is still a long way off but the stakes are rising. Last summer, it looked as if China, peeved by the \u00adcollapse of its $20bn deal to invest in Rio, was merely trying to secure a lower price for its iron ore imports. It's far more serious than that.", "tags": ["Rio Tinto", "China", "Australia news", "Mining", "International trade", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China tests Rio Tinto's mettle"},{"date": "2010-03-30T12:30:53Z", "country": "china", "content": "You might have heard it said that China executes more people than all other countries in the world put together. Not just a handful, but thousands and thousands of people every single year. This, broadly, is true.But suppose you actually wanted to find out exactly how many people the People's Republic executes annually. Any chance of getting this information? No. Try asking the Chinese authorities, and you'll get a stern \"it's a state secret\" rebuff. If you happened to get hold of some solid information (from lawyers in China, for example) you'd then be in possession of a state secret which it would be illegal to make public. It's basically as if there's a super-injunction on the information \u2013 not just on the actual information, but anything relating to it.Amnesty's new report on the death penalty worldwide does its best to cut through the secrecy by estimating that there were \"thousands\" of executions in China in 2009. Based on sources \u2013 which we can't, for safety's sake, reveal \u2013 this seems reasonable. But it's still a rough and ready guesstimate. Amazing, given the seriousness of the topic.China likes to have it both ways. It's been boasting that it has reformed its capital punishment system and that execution numbers are down. But it won't give any figures.One thing we know \u2013 more or less \u2013 is that there are approximately 68 offences in China for which you can receive a death sentence. Many are not for lethal crimes \u2013 as we saw with the shocking execution of the British man Akmal Shaikh in December for alleged drugs offences. China's capital crimes reportedly include reselling forged VAT receipts, causing damage to public property, and cattle rustling. Three years ago a man was sentenced to death for selling overpriced ants.However, I don't think a full list exists. That would be far too open for the Chinese authorities. If a proper source ever comes to light, it will be interesting to see if \"revealing a state secret, including information about the People's Republic of China's use of capital punishment\" is included as a capital crime. It wouldn't surprise me \u2013 this Catch 22-like paradox would suit China's secretive use of the death penalty down to the ground.But here's an ominous thought. State secrets are normally things like defence matters or intelligence issues. What, then, is China so keen to hide on the death penalty?Could it be that the numbers of people in China going to their deaths before firing squads and in mobile lethal injection chambers is actually far higher than we already feared?", "tags": ["China", "Capital punishment", "Human rights", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "How many does China execute? | Kate Allen"},{"date": "2010-03-29T19:40:11Z", "country": "china", "content": "So, the \"Rio Tinto four\" are guilty and the company accepts the verdict of the Shanghai number one people's intermediate court. Rio said the evidence presented in court showed \"beyond doubt\" that the four had accepted bribes. Chief executive Tom Albanese condemned \"the deplorable behaviour\" of his employees and hoped that their \"unacceptable conduct\" would not damage Rio's efforts \"to build its important relationship with China\".Fair enough. But it would have been better if Rio had also summoned the courage to echo a point made by Stephen Smith, the Australian foreign minister, who said the closure to the outside world of the commercial secrets part of the trial (as opposed to the part-dealing with the bribery allegations) left \"serious unanswered questions\".Smith is right and the failure of Rio, in its rush to rebuild bridges, to make that additional point is regrettable.The reality for western workers in China \u2013 not just at Rio \u2013 is that they work in the dark. Nobody can be sure what, legally, constitutes a commercial secret. Is it all right to hold information on a computer about past iron ore pricing agreements, even if such information is the public domain? Or is that stealing?This high-profile trial was a missed opportunity to exert some pressure on the Chinese authorities to shed light on this vital area. Employees in China know what to expect if they accept bribes \u2013 but they have always known that. The Chinese definition of a \"commercial secret\" remains as mysterious as ever.", "tags": ["Business", "Rio Tinto", "China", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Rio Tinto suffers China syndrome"},{"date": "2010-01-14T13:04:31Z", "country": "china", "content": "China launches a crackdown on \"vulgar\" websites including Google that it says have failed to censor inappropriate content.As the drive intensifies, observers warn it is affecting politically sensitive content too.Later in the month, Chinese media censors the inauguration speech of the US president, Barack Obama: state TV cuts away from the live feed after a reference to communism and leading websites remove the word from translated texts.China blocks YouTube after denouncing as \"a lie\" footage appearing to show security forces beating Tibetans in Lhasa last year.China blocks Twitter, Flickr and Hotmail days ahead of the 20th anniversary on the bloody military crackdown on pro-democracy protests in Tiananmen Square.Later in the month it blocks Google services, with search functions and Gmail inaccessible for over an hour.The biggest news of all is the massive outcry as the government orders PC makers to install its controversial censorship software, Green Dam.Following complaints from internet users, businesses and foreign governments the authorities back down, saying it will not be compulsory.Internet access is cut across the entire north-western region, home to more than 19 million people, after deadly ethnic riots in its capital.Some sites are later restored but as of January 2010 access remains extremely restricted.Facebook reports access problems and remains inaccessible from China as of January 2010.Later in the month the government says it plans to implement a five-year programme advocating clean online games, starting in 2010. It bans websites featuring or publicising online games that \"glamorise mafia gangs\".The government drops its plan to install the controversial Green Dam software on every new computer sold in China, despite official comments the previous month that it would go ahead after all.It emerges that news websites in China have begun requiring new users to register their true identities before allowing them to post comments.Obama criticises internet controls during his visit to China, describing himself as \"a big supporter of non-censorship\".The government says its campaign against pornography on the web and through mobile Wap sites will continue until May 2010.It later emerges China has issued new internet regulations, including what some interpret as an attempt to create a \"whitelist\" of approved websites that could potentially place much of the internet off-limits to Chinese readers, and ordering domain management institutions and internet service providers to tighten controls over domain name registration.At the end of the month police say the crackdown on internet porn has brought 5,394 arrests and 4,186 criminal case investigations during 2009.", "tags": ["China", "Censorship", "Internet", "Google", "World news", "Technology", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Internet censorship in China"},{"date": "2010-01-07T16:37:17Z", "country": "china", "content": "A Chinese court has jailed a Tibetan filmmaker for six years after he made a documentary critical of Beijing's policies, friends and campaigners said today.Dhongdup Wangchen and his friend Golog Jigme, a monk, were detained shortly after completing Leaving Fear Behind, which highlighted Tibetan anger with Chinese policies before the Olympics. The tapes had already been smuggled out of the country.The films featured interviews with ordinary Tibetans who expressed their love for the Dalai Lama, their exiled spiritual leader, and said the Olympics would do little to improve their lives. \"The Chinese say they have made improvements in Tibet. But we don't see any improvement at all,\" Wangchen said in the documentary. \"The truth is that Tibetans are not free to speak of their suffering.\"A statement placed on a website promoting the film said the 35-year-old filmmaker was sentenced on 28 December in Xining, provincial capital of Qinghai, where there is a large Tibetan population. His family said he was jailed for subversion. They found out about the sentencing only recently, Wangpo Tethong, a friend living in exile, told Associated Press.Calls to the Xining Intermediate People's Court were unanswered.Li Dunyong, a lawyer hired by the family but replaced with a government appointee by authorities, told AP the filmmaker had appealed. In a statement posted on the film's website, Wangchen's wife, Lhama Tso, who is living in exile in India, said: \"I appeal to the court in Xining to allow my husband to have a legal representative of his own choosing.\"My children and I feel desperate about the prospect of not being able to see him for so many years. We call on the Chinese authorities to show humanity by releasing him. My husband is not a criminal, he just tried to show the truth.\"Wangchen was arrested in March 2008, shortly before riots erupted in Lhasa and spread across other Tibetan areas outside the autonomous region.A Chinese foreign ministry spokeswoman, Jiang Yu, said that while she had not heard of the case, all Chinese citizens enjoyed basic rights, including freedom of speech. She told a news briefing in Beijing: \"You will only be punished if you break the law.\"", "tags": ["China", "Tibet", "Dalai Lama", "World news", "Documentary", "Film", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China jails Tibetan filmmaker"},{"date": "2010-02-10T20:31:01Z", "country": "china", "content": "China today charged four employees of mining firm Rio Tinto with \u00adbribery, thereby quashing the comforting notion that a highly sensitive case could be defused behind closed doors by the diplomats.Rio, for now at least, is obliged to maintain its public faith in Chinese justice. Anything else might jeopardise the position of its detained employees, who include Stern Hu, an Australian national.The softly-softly approach, however, would clearly have to be abandoned if Hu and the others were convicted, since Rio's unswerving stance has been that the detained employees \"acted at all times with integrity and in accordance with Rio Tinto's strict and publicly stated code of ethical behaviour\".Rio's public statements to date have also made a point of mentioning that the company continues to ship high \u00adlevels of iron ore to China from \u00adAustralia. The implication, one assumes, is that it would stop shipments if the four were convicted. Frankly, no other policy would be credible.Such drama is still a long way off but the stakes are rising. Last summer, it looked as if China, peeved by the \u00adcollapse of its $20bn deal to invest in Rio, was merely trying to secure a lower price for its iron ore imports. It's far more serious than that.", "tags": ["Rio Tinto", "China", "Australia news", "Mining", "International trade", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China tests Rio Tinto's mettle"},{"date": "2010-02-10T17:06:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "China dramatically raised the stakes with Anglo-Australian mining giant Rio Tinto today when it charged four of the company's employees with industrial espionage and bribery.The move will also increase tension between Beijing and Australia because one of the employees is an Australian national, as well as cast a cloud over iron-ore price negotiations between China and western mining companies.The four Rio staff were detained last July and are being held in a prison in Shanghai. They are accused of using improper means to obtain commercial secrets from the country's steel industry and using that information to increase the price that China pays for its iron ore imports.China's Xinhua state news agency reported the prosecutor's office as saying that the four had \"exploited their positions to seek gain for others, and numerous times either sought or illegally accepted massive bribes from a number of Chinese steel firms\". No date has yet been set for a trial.Rio refused to comment but in the past has denied that its staff have been involved in any wrongdoing.China's latest move comes as Rio and other international mining groups attempt to clinch a contract to supply Chinese steel mills with iron ore for 12 months from April 2010. The Chinese have balked at demands for a price increase of up to 40% and negotiations remain deadlocked.Last year, talks broke down after Beijing refused to agree to prices agreed by the companies with South Korea and Japan. That left China to buy iron ore on the open market \u2013 a more expensive option when prices are soaring as they are today, unlike much of last year when commodity prices were slumping.The arrest of Rio's employees soured relations between Beijing and Canberra, which views their imprisonment as a provocative act at a time when China has emerged as Australia's biggest trading partner; Australia accounted for 42% of Chinese iron ore imports in 2008.The Australian national being held is Stern Hu, Rio's sales chief in China. Recently, Martin Ferguson, the Australian minister for resources and energy, said: \"I hope that the issue is drawing to a fast \u00adconclusion, both from a point of view of our relationship with China and from the point of view of Stern Hu and his family.\"Some observers believe that deliberate attempts may be being made to prolong the detentions ahead of further talks between China and the steel producers. In the City, some investors have alleged that the arrest of the \"Rio Four\" was a straightforward act of retaliation on the part of the Chinese authorities as it came only a few weeks after Rio turned down a huge investment offer from Chinalco, China's state-owned aluminium group. Instead, Rio opted for a deal with BHP.", "tags": ["Rio Tinto", "Mining", "Business", "China", "Australia news", "Espionage", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China charges Rio Tinto employees"},{"date": "2010-03-30T12:30:53Z", "country": "china", "content": "You might have heard it said that China executes more people than all other countries in the world put together. Not just a handful, but thousands and thousands of people every single year. This, broadly, is true.But suppose you actually wanted to find out exactly how many people the People's Republic executes annually. Any chance of getting this information? No. Try asking the Chinese authorities, and you'll get a stern \"it's a state secret\" rebuff. If you happened to get hold of some solid information (from lawyers in China, for example) you'd then be in possession of a state secret which it would be illegal to make public. It's basically as if there's a super-injunction on the information \u2013 not just on the actual information, but anything relating to it.Amnesty's new report on the death penalty worldwide does its best to cut through the secrecy by estimating that there were \"thousands\" of executions in China in 2009. Based on sources \u2013 which we can't, for safety's sake, reveal \u2013 this seems reasonable. But it's still a rough and ready guesstimate. Amazing, given the seriousness of the topic.China likes to have it both ways. It's been boasting that it has reformed its capital punishment system and that execution numbers are down. But it won't give any figures.One thing we know \u2013 more or less \u2013 is that there are approximately 68 offences in China for which you can receive a death sentence. Many are not for lethal crimes \u2013 as we saw with the shocking execution of the British man Akmal Shaikh in December for alleged drugs offences. China's capital crimes reportedly include reselling forged VAT receipts, causing damage to public property, and cattle rustling. Three years ago a man was sentenced to death for selling overpriced ants.However, I don't think a full list exists. That would be far too open for the Chinese authorities. If a proper source ever comes to light, it will be interesting to see if \"revealing a state secret, including information about the People's Republic of China's use of capital punishment\" is included as a capital crime. It wouldn't surprise me \u2013 this Catch 22-like paradox would suit China's secretive use of the death penalty down to the ground.But here's an ominous thought. State secrets are normally things like defence matters or intelligence issues. What, then, is China so keen to hide on the death penalty?Could it be that the numbers of people in China going to their deaths before firing squads and in mobile lethal injection chambers is actually far higher than we already feared?", "tags": ["China", "Capital punishment", "Human rights", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "How many does China execute? | Kate Allen"},{"date": "2010-03-29T19:40:11Z", "country": "china", "content": "So, the \"Rio Tinto four\" are guilty and the company accepts the verdict of the Shanghai number one people's intermediate court. Rio said the evidence presented in court showed \"beyond doubt\" that the four had accepted bribes. Chief executive Tom Albanese condemned \"the deplorable behaviour\" of his employees and hoped that their \"unacceptable conduct\" would not damage Rio's efforts \"to build its important relationship with China\".Fair enough. But it would have been better if Rio had also summoned the courage to echo a point made by Stephen Smith, the Australian foreign minister, who said the closure to the outside world of the commercial secrets part of the trial (as opposed to the part-dealing with the bribery allegations) left \"serious unanswered questions\".Smith is right and the failure of Rio, in its rush to rebuild bridges, to make that additional point is regrettable.The reality for western workers in China \u2013 not just at Rio \u2013 is that they work in the dark. Nobody can be sure what, legally, constitutes a commercial secret. Is it all right to hold information on a computer about past iron ore pricing agreements, even if such information is the public domain? Or is that stealing?This high-profile trial was a missed opportunity to exert some pressure on the Chinese authorities to shed light on this vital area. Employees in China know what to expect if they accept bribes \u2013 but they have always known that. The Chinese definition of a \"commercial secret\" remains as mysterious as ever.", "tags": ["Business", "Rio Tinto", "China", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Rio Tinto suffers China syndrome"},{"date": "2010-01-14T13:04:31Z", "country": "china", "content": "China launches a crackdown on \"vulgar\" websites including Google that it says have failed to censor inappropriate content.As the drive intensifies, observers warn it is affecting politically sensitive content too.Later in the month, Chinese media censors the inauguration speech of the US president, Barack Obama: state TV cuts away from the live feed after a reference to communism and leading websites remove the word from translated texts.China blocks YouTube after denouncing as \"a lie\" footage appearing to show security forces beating Tibetans in Lhasa last year.China blocks Twitter, Flickr and Hotmail days ahead of the 20th anniversary on the bloody military crackdown on pro-democracy protests in Tiananmen Square.Later in the month it blocks Google services, with search functions and Gmail inaccessible for over an hour.The biggest news of all is the massive outcry as the government orders PC makers to install its controversial censorship software, Green Dam.Following complaints from internet users, businesses and foreign governments the authorities back down, saying it will not be compulsory.Internet access is cut across the entire north-western region, home to more than 19 million people, after deadly ethnic riots in its capital.Some sites are later restored but as of January 2010 access remains extremely restricted.Facebook reports access problems and remains inaccessible from China as of January 2010.Later in the month the government says it plans to implement a five-year programme advocating clean online games, starting in 2010. It bans websites featuring or publicising online games that \"glamorise mafia gangs\".The government drops its plan to install the controversial Green Dam software on every new computer sold in China, despite official comments the previous month that it would go ahead after all.It emerges that news websites in China have begun requiring new users to register their true identities before allowing them to post comments.Obama criticises internet controls during his visit to China, describing himself as \"a big supporter of non-censorship\".The government says its campaign against pornography on the web and through mobile Wap sites will continue until May 2010.It later emerges China has issued new internet regulations, including what some interpret as an attempt to create a \"whitelist\" of approved websites that could potentially place much of the internet off-limits to Chinese readers, and ordering domain management institutions and internet service providers to tighten controls over domain name registration.At the end of the month police say the crackdown on internet porn has brought 5,394 arrests and 4,186 criminal case investigations during 2009.", "tags": ["China", "Censorship", "Internet", "Google", "World news", "Technology", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Internet censorship in China"},{"date": "2010-01-07T16:37:17Z", "country": "china", "content": "A Chinese court has jailed a Tibetan filmmaker for six years after he made a documentary critical of Beijing's policies, friends and campaigners said today.Dhongdup Wangchen and his friend Golog Jigme, a monk, were detained shortly after completing Leaving Fear Behind, which highlighted Tibetan anger with Chinese policies before the Olympics. The tapes had already been smuggled out of the country.The films featured interviews with ordinary Tibetans who expressed their love for the Dalai Lama, their exiled spiritual leader, and said the Olympics would do little to improve their lives. \"The Chinese say they have made improvements in Tibet. But we don't see any improvement at all,\" Wangchen said in the documentary. \"The truth is that Tibetans are not free to speak of their suffering.\"A statement placed on a website promoting the film said the 35-year-old filmmaker was sentenced on 28 December in Xining, provincial capital of Qinghai, where there is a large Tibetan population. His family said he was jailed for subversion. They found out about the sentencing only recently, Wangpo Tethong, a friend living in exile, told Associated Press.Calls to the Xining Intermediate People's Court were unanswered.Li Dunyong, a lawyer hired by the family but replaced with a government appointee by authorities, told AP the filmmaker had appealed. In a statement posted on the film's website, Wangchen's wife, Lhama Tso, who is living in exile in India, said: \"I appeal to the court in Xining to allow my husband to have a legal representative of his own choosing.\"My children and I feel desperate about the prospect of not being able to see him for so many years. We call on the Chinese authorities to show humanity by releasing him. My husband is not a criminal, he just tried to show the truth.\"Wangchen was arrested in March 2008, shortly before riots erupted in Lhasa and spread across other Tibetan areas outside the autonomous region.A Chinese foreign ministry spokeswoman, Jiang Yu, said that while she had not heard of the case, all Chinese citizens enjoyed basic rights, including freedom of speech. She told a news briefing in Beijing: \"You will only be punished if you break the law.\"", "tags": ["China", "Tibet", "Dalai Lama", "World news", "Documentary", "Film", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China jails Tibetan filmmaker"},{"date": "2010-02-10T20:31:01Z", "country": "china", "content": "China today charged four employees of mining firm Rio Tinto with \u00adbribery, thereby quashing the comforting notion that a highly sensitive case could be defused behind closed doors by the diplomats.Rio, for now at least, is obliged to maintain its public faith in Chinese justice. Anything else might jeopardise the position of its detained employees, who include Stern Hu, an Australian national.The softly-softly approach, however, would clearly have to be abandoned if Hu and the others were convicted, since Rio's unswerving stance has been that the detained employees \"acted at all times with integrity and in accordance with Rio Tinto's strict and publicly stated code of ethical behaviour\".Rio's public statements to date have also made a point of mentioning that the company continues to ship high \u00adlevels of iron ore to China from \u00adAustralia. The implication, one assumes, is that it would stop shipments if the four were convicted. Frankly, no other policy would be credible.Such drama is still a long way off but the stakes are rising. Last summer, it looked as if China, peeved by the \u00adcollapse of its $20bn deal to invest in Rio, was merely trying to secure a lower price for its iron ore imports. It's far more serious than that.", "tags": ["Rio Tinto", "China", "Australia news", "Mining", "International trade", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China tests Rio Tinto's mettle"},{"date": "2010-02-10T17:06:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "China dramatically raised the stakes with Anglo-Australian mining giant Rio Tinto today when it charged four of the company's employees with industrial espionage and bribery.The move will also increase tension between Beijing and Australia because one of the employees is an Australian national, as well as cast a cloud over iron-ore price negotiations between China and western mining companies.The four Rio staff were detained last July and are being held in a prison in Shanghai. They are accused of using improper means to obtain commercial secrets from the country's steel industry and using that information to increase the price that China pays for its iron ore imports.China's Xinhua state news agency reported the prosecutor's office as saying that the four had \"exploited their positions to seek gain for others, and numerous times either sought or illegally accepted massive bribes from a number of Chinese steel firms\". No date has yet been set for a trial.Rio refused to comment but in the past has denied that its staff have been involved in any wrongdoing.China's latest move comes as Rio and other international mining groups attempt to clinch a contract to supply Chinese steel mills with iron ore for 12 months from April 2010. The Chinese have balked at demands for a price increase of up to 40% and negotiations remain deadlocked.Last year, talks broke down after Beijing refused to agree to prices agreed by the companies with South Korea and Japan. That left China to buy iron ore on the open market \u2013 a more expensive option when prices are soaring as they are today, unlike much of last year when commodity prices were slumping.The arrest of Rio's employees soured relations between Beijing and Canberra, which views their imprisonment as a provocative act at a time when China has emerged as Australia's biggest trading partner; Australia accounted for 42% of Chinese iron ore imports in 2008.The Australian national being held is Stern Hu, Rio's sales chief in China. Recently, Martin Ferguson, the Australian minister for resources and energy, said: \"I hope that the issue is drawing to a fast \u00adconclusion, both from a point of view of our relationship with China and from the point of view of Stern Hu and his family.\"Some observers believe that deliberate attempts may be being made to prolong the detentions ahead of further talks between China and the steel producers. In the City, some investors have alleged that the arrest of the \"Rio Four\" was a straightforward act of retaliation on the part of the Chinese authorities as it came only a few weeks after Rio turned down a huge investment offer from Chinalco, China's state-owned aluminium group. Instead, Rio opted for a deal with BHP.", "tags": ["Rio Tinto", "Mining", "Business", "China", "Australia news", "Espionage", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China charges Rio Tinto employees"},{"date": "2010-02-08T00:06:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "A year ago, China Daily gushed with upbeat epithets about the co-operation between the US and China. The relationship was already effective and smooth on trade, Taiwan and global warning. With two firm multilateralists, Barack Obama and Joe Biden, now in power, it would be positively strengthened and constructive, the official mouthpiece opined.How different the picture looks today \u2013 and how wounded the official tone. China sent a deputy foreign minister to negotiate with Mr Obama in Copenhagen, scuppering the deal that not just the US but many other countries wanted. Next came the cyber-attacks on Google. Then the White House approved a decision to sell patriot missiles to Taiwan, announced that Mr Obama would meet the Dalai Lama and lectured China on its overvalued currency. Forget the metaphor of resetting relations, which the US used recently with Russia. Hardly a month goes by when the US and China can resist pushing each other's buttons.Is China's assertiveness and Mr Obama's hardened attitude all down to economics \u2013 to the former's impressive performance during the global recession and the latter's much weaker one? Economists reckon the Chinese currency, which has remained at the same value since July 2008, is undervalued by 25% to 40%. Even on the lower figure, the effect of a correction on the currencies of neighbours like Malaysia, \u00adSingapore, and Taiwan would be major and would collectively help cut the US deficit by $100bn and create 700,000 jobs. \u00adReopening the battle with China over its currency is not a bad move, therefore, as Mr Obama faces difficult midterm elections in November. Both the US and China are trying to power their way forward with export booms and each requires a low valuation of its currency to do that.But politics matter too. China's foreign policy has become more assertive as nationalism becomes dominant. For all the lip service to multilateralism, China is more hostile to sanctions on Iran than Russia. A nationalist China is, however, more tied into the global economy than ever before. Two-thirds of China's $2.4 trillion currency reserves are held in dollars. If it dumped the US treasury bonds and shares in which these dollars are invested, China could trigger a collapse of the dollar, and world markets, and another global recession. To whom would China be able to export then? Certainly not to the US or the EU. China's key economic interest lies in continuing to fund US debt.So there are limits to the current US-China jousting. Each is repainting its red lines and stepping over the other's. But at some point national interest says this must stop. Neither of the tetchy twins can do without the other.", "tags": ["China", "US economy", "US news", "Obama administration", "Barack Obama", "Global economy", "Global recession", "Globalisation", "World news", "Business", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "US and China: Tetchy twins"},{"date": "2010-03-30T12:30:53Z", "country": "china", "content": "You might have heard it said that China executes more people than all other countries in the world put together. Not just a handful, but thousands and thousands of people every single year. This, broadly, is true.But suppose you actually wanted to find out exactly how many people the People's Republic executes annually. Any chance of getting this information? No. Try asking the Chinese authorities, and you'll get a stern \"it's a state secret\" rebuff. If you happened to get hold of some solid information (from lawyers in China, for example) you'd then be in possession of a state secret which it would be illegal to make public. It's basically as if there's a super-injunction on the information \u2013 not just on the actual information, but anything relating to it.Amnesty's new report on the death penalty worldwide does its best to cut through the secrecy by estimating that there were \"thousands\" of executions in China in 2009. Based on sources \u2013 which we can't, for safety's sake, reveal \u2013 this seems reasonable. But it's still a rough and ready guesstimate. Amazing, given the seriousness of the topic.China likes to have it both ways. It's been boasting that it has reformed its capital punishment system and that execution numbers are down. But it won't give any figures.One thing we know \u2013 more or less \u2013 is that there are approximately 68 offences in China for which you can receive a death sentence. Many are not for lethal crimes \u2013 as we saw with the shocking execution of the British man Akmal Shaikh in December for alleged drugs offences. China's capital crimes reportedly include reselling forged VAT receipts, causing damage to public property, and cattle rustling. Three years ago a man was sentenced to death for selling overpriced ants.However, I don't think a full list exists. That would be far too open for the Chinese authorities. If a proper source ever comes to light, it will be interesting to see if \"revealing a state secret, including information about the People's Republic of China's use of capital punishment\" is included as a capital crime. It wouldn't surprise me \u2013 this Catch 22-like paradox would suit China's secretive use of the death penalty down to the ground.But here's an ominous thought. State secrets are normally things like defence matters or intelligence issues. What, then, is China so keen to hide on the death penalty?Could it be that the numbers of people in China going to their deaths before firing squads and in mobile lethal injection chambers is actually far higher than we already feared?", "tags": ["China", "Capital punishment", "Human rights", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "How many does China execute? | Kate Allen"},{"date": "2010-03-29T19:40:11Z", "country": "china", "content": "So, the \"Rio Tinto four\" are guilty and the company accepts the verdict of the Shanghai number one people's intermediate court. Rio said the evidence presented in court showed \"beyond doubt\" that the four had accepted bribes. Chief executive Tom Albanese condemned \"the deplorable behaviour\" of his employees and hoped that their \"unacceptable conduct\" would not damage Rio's efforts \"to build its important relationship with China\".Fair enough. But it would have been better if Rio had also summoned the courage to echo a point made by Stephen Smith, the Australian foreign minister, who said the closure to the outside world of the commercial secrets part of the trial (as opposed to the part-dealing with the bribery allegations) left \"serious unanswered questions\".Smith is right and the failure of Rio, in its rush to rebuild bridges, to make that additional point is regrettable.The reality for western workers in China \u2013 not just at Rio \u2013 is that they work in the dark. Nobody can be sure what, legally, constitutes a commercial secret. Is it all right to hold information on a computer about past iron ore pricing agreements, even if such information is the public domain? Or is that stealing?This high-profile trial was a missed opportunity to exert some pressure on the Chinese authorities to shed light on this vital area. Employees in China know what to expect if they accept bribes \u2013 but they have always known that. The Chinese definition of a \"commercial secret\" remains as mysterious as ever.", "tags": ["Business", "Rio Tinto", "China", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Rio Tinto suffers China syndrome"},{"date": "2010-01-14T13:04:31Z", "country": "china", "content": "China launches a crackdown on \"vulgar\" websites including Google that it says have failed to censor inappropriate content.As the drive intensifies, observers warn it is affecting politically sensitive content too.Later in the month, Chinese media censors the inauguration speech of the US president, Barack Obama: state TV cuts away from the live feed after a reference to communism and leading websites remove the word from translated texts.China blocks YouTube after denouncing as \"a lie\" footage appearing to show security forces beating Tibetans in Lhasa last year.China blocks Twitter, Flickr and Hotmail days ahead of the 20th anniversary on the bloody military crackdown on pro-democracy protests in Tiananmen Square.Later in the month it blocks Google services, with search functions and Gmail inaccessible for over an hour.The biggest news of all is the massive outcry as the government orders PC makers to install its controversial censorship software, Green Dam.Following complaints from internet users, businesses and foreign governments the authorities back down, saying it will not be compulsory.Internet access is cut across the entire north-western region, home to more than 19 million people, after deadly ethnic riots in its capital.Some sites are later restored but as of January 2010 access remains extremely restricted.Facebook reports access problems and remains inaccessible from China as of January 2010.Later in the month the government says it plans to implement a five-year programme advocating clean online games, starting in 2010. It bans websites featuring or publicising online games that \"glamorise mafia gangs\".The government drops its plan to install the controversial Green Dam software on every new computer sold in China, despite official comments the previous month that it would go ahead after all.It emerges that news websites in China have begun requiring new users to register their true identities before allowing them to post comments.Obama criticises internet controls during his visit to China, describing himself as \"a big supporter of non-censorship\".The government says its campaign against pornography on the web and through mobile Wap sites will continue until May 2010.It later emerges China has issued new internet regulations, including what some interpret as an attempt to create a \"whitelist\" of approved websites that could potentially place much of the internet off-limits to Chinese readers, and ordering domain management institutions and internet service providers to tighten controls over domain name registration.At the end of the month police say the crackdown on internet porn has brought 5,394 arrests and 4,186 criminal case investigations during 2009.", "tags": ["China", "Censorship", "Internet", "Google", "World news", "Technology", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Internet censorship in China"},{"date": "2010-01-07T16:37:17Z", "country": "china", "content": "A Chinese court has jailed a Tibetan filmmaker for six years after he made a documentary critical of Beijing's policies, friends and campaigners said today.Dhongdup Wangchen and his friend Golog Jigme, a monk, were detained shortly after completing Leaving Fear Behind, which highlighted Tibetan anger with Chinese policies before the Olympics. The tapes had already been smuggled out of the country.The films featured interviews with ordinary Tibetans who expressed their love for the Dalai Lama, their exiled spiritual leader, and said the Olympics would do little to improve their lives. \"The Chinese say they have made improvements in Tibet. But we don't see any improvement at all,\" Wangchen said in the documentary. \"The truth is that Tibetans are not free to speak of their suffering.\"A statement placed on a website promoting the film said the 35-year-old filmmaker was sentenced on 28 December in Xining, provincial capital of Qinghai, where there is a large Tibetan population. His family said he was jailed for subversion. They found out about the sentencing only recently, Wangpo Tethong, a friend living in exile, told Associated Press.Calls to the Xining Intermediate People's Court were unanswered.Li Dunyong, a lawyer hired by the family but replaced with a government appointee by authorities, told AP the filmmaker had appealed. In a statement posted on the film's website, Wangchen's wife, Lhama Tso, who is living in exile in India, said: \"I appeal to the court in Xining to allow my husband to have a legal representative of his own choosing.\"My children and I feel desperate about the prospect of not being able to see him for so many years. We call on the Chinese authorities to show humanity by releasing him. My husband is not a criminal, he just tried to show the truth.\"Wangchen was arrested in March 2008, shortly before riots erupted in Lhasa and spread across other Tibetan areas outside the autonomous region.A Chinese foreign ministry spokeswoman, Jiang Yu, said that while she had not heard of the case, all Chinese citizens enjoyed basic rights, including freedom of speech. She told a news briefing in Beijing: \"You will only be punished if you break the law.\"", "tags": ["China", "Tibet", "Dalai Lama", "World news", "Documentary", "Film", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China jails Tibetan filmmaker"},{"date": "2010-02-10T20:31:01Z", "country": "china", "content": "China today charged four employees of mining firm Rio Tinto with \u00adbribery, thereby quashing the comforting notion that a highly sensitive case could be defused behind closed doors by the diplomats.Rio, for now at least, is obliged to maintain its public faith in Chinese justice. Anything else might jeopardise the position of its detained employees, who include Stern Hu, an Australian national.The softly-softly approach, however, would clearly have to be abandoned if Hu and the others were convicted, since Rio's unswerving stance has been that the detained employees \"acted at all times with integrity and in accordance with Rio Tinto's strict and publicly stated code of ethical behaviour\".Rio's public statements to date have also made a point of mentioning that the company continues to ship high \u00adlevels of iron ore to China from \u00adAustralia. The implication, one assumes, is that it would stop shipments if the four were convicted. Frankly, no other policy would be credible.Such drama is still a long way off but the stakes are rising. Last summer, it looked as if China, peeved by the \u00adcollapse of its $20bn deal to invest in Rio, was merely trying to secure a lower price for its iron ore imports. It's far more serious than that.", "tags": ["Rio Tinto", "China", "Australia news", "Mining", "International trade", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China tests Rio Tinto's mettle"},{"date": "2010-02-10T17:06:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "China dramatically raised the stakes with Anglo-Australian mining giant Rio Tinto today when it charged four of the company's employees with industrial espionage and bribery.The move will also increase tension between Beijing and Australia because one of the employees is an Australian national, as well as cast a cloud over iron-ore price negotiations between China and western mining companies.The four Rio staff were detained last July and are being held in a prison in Shanghai. They are accused of using improper means to obtain commercial secrets from the country's steel industry and using that information to increase the price that China pays for its iron ore imports.China's Xinhua state news agency reported the prosecutor's office as saying that the four had \"exploited their positions to seek gain for others, and numerous times either sought or illegally accepted massive bribes from a number of Chinese steel firms\". No date has yet been set for a trial.Rio refused to comment but in the past has denied that its staff have been involved in any wrongdoing.China's latest move comes as Rio and other international mining groups attempt to clinch a contract to supply Chinese steel mills with iron ore for 12 months from April 2010. The Chinese have balked at demands for a price increase of up to 40% and negotiations remain deadlocked.Last year, talks broke down after Beijing refused to agree to prices agreed by the companies with South Korea and Japan. That left China to buy iron ore on the open market \u2013 a more expensive option when prices are soaring as they are today, unlike much of last year when commodity prices were slumping.The arrest of Rio's employees soured relations between Beijing and Canberra, which views their imprisonment as a provocative act at a time when China has emerged as Australia's biggest trading partner; Australia accounted for 42% of Chinese iron ore imports in 2008.The Australian national being held is Stern Hu, Rio's sales chief in China. Recently, Martin Ferguson, the Australian minister for resources and energy, said: \"I hope that the issue is drawing to a fast \u00adconclusion, both from a point of view of our relationship with China and from the point of view of Stern Hu and his family.\"Some observers believe that deliberate attempts may be being made to prolong the detentions ahead of further talks between China and the steel producers. In the City, some investors have alleged that the arrest of the \"Rio Four\" was a straightforward act of retaliation on the part of the Chinese authorities as it came only a few weeks after Rio turned down a huge investment offer from Chinalco, China's state-owned aluminium group. Instead, Rio opted for a deal with BHP.", "tags": ["Rio Tinto", "Mining", "Business", "China", "Australia news", "Espionage", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China charges Rio Tinto employees"},{"date": "2010-02-08T00:06:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "A year ago, China Daily gushed with upbeat epithets about the co-operation between the US and China. The relationship was already effective and smooth on trade, Taiwan and global warning. With two firm multilateralists, Barack Obama and Joe Biden, now in power, it would be positively strengthened and constructive, the official mouthpiece opined.How different the picture looks today \u2013 and how wounded the official tone. China sent a deputy foreign minister to negotiate with Mr Obama in Copenhagen, scuppering the deal that not just the US but many other countries wanted. Next came the cyber-attacks on Google. Then the White House approved a decision to sell patriot missiles to Taiwan, announced that Mr Obama would meet the Dalai Lama and lectured China on its overvalued currency. Forget the metaphor of resetting relations, which the US used recently with Russia. Hardly a month goes by when the US and China can resist pushing each other's buttons.Is China's assertiveness and Mr Obama's hardened attitude all down to economics \u2013 to the former's impressive performance during the global recession and the latter's much weaker one? Economists reckon the Chinese currency, which has remained at the same value since July 2008, is undervalued by 25% to 40%. Even on the lower figure, the effect of a correction on the currencies of neighbours like Malaysia, \u00adSingapore, and Taiwan would be major and would collectively help cut the US deficit by $100bn and create 700,000 jobs. \u00adReopening the battle with China over its currency is not a bad move, therefore, as Mr Obama faces difficult midterm elections in November. Both the US and China are trying to power their way forward with export booms and each requires a low valuation of its currency to do that.But politics matter too. China's foreign policy has become more assertive as nationalism becomes dominant. For all the lip service to multilateralism, China is more hostile to sanctions on Iran than Russia. A nationalist China is, however, more tied into the global economy than ever before. Two-thirds of China's $2.4 trillion currency reserves are held in dollars. If it dumped the US treasury bonds and shares in which these dollars are invested, China could trigger a collapse of the dollar, and world markets, and another global recession. To whom would China be able to export then? Certainly not to the US or the EU. China's key economic interest lies in continuing to fund US debt.So there are limits to the current US-China jousting. Each is repainting its red lines and stepping over the other's. But at some point national interest says this must stop. Neither of the tetchy twins can do without the other.", "tags": ["China", "US economy", "US news", "Obama administration", "Barack Obama", "Global economy", "Global recession", "Globalisation", "World news", "Business", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "US and China: Tetchy twins"},{"date": "2010-01-13T19:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Google's shock announcement that it may quit China has refocused attention on internet censorship in the country and raised the issue of industrial espionage there.Most of the attention in the standoff has focused on human rights and censorship, but little attention has been paid to Google's claim that it was the victim of cyber-crime. David Drummond, the company's chief legal officer, said:In mid-December, we detected a highly sophisticated and targeted attack on our corporate infrastructure originating from China that resulted in the theft of intellectual property from Google.Someone, allegedly traced to China, broke into Google and stole corporate secrets. Furthermore, the search engine's investigation revealed they weren't alone. Drummond continued:As part of our investigation we have discovered that at least 20 other large companies from a wide range of businesses \u2013\u00a0including the internet, finance, technology, media and chemical sectors \u2013 have been similarly targeted.Google has refused to implicate the Chinese government. However, in March 2009, security researchers announced that a cyber-espionage network it called GhostNet had broken into government, corporate and private computers in 103 countries. The computers used in the attacks were almost exclusively in China. As Thomas Crampton, the Asia-Pacific director of Ogilvy PR, pointed out, Google mentioned both the GhostNet report and a public source security review by US defence firm Northup Grumman of China's \"Cyber Warfare and Computer Network Exploitation\". (You can download the 88-page report in the PDF format and read it for yourself.) The report was written for the The US-China Economic and Security Review Commission. The US Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton, issued a terse statement, saying: \"We look to the Chinese government for an explanation.\" Business senseTechnology analysts were trying to read the tea leaves to understand Google's move. Why would a company choose to walk away from one of the most important internet markets in the world? As Larry Dignan, of ZDNet, said, on the surface the decision seems to be business lunacy. He then looks at reasons why Google might have made the threat:\u2022 Google needs goodwill with Western governments as concerns mount over its market dominance. (It was an explanation supported by internet political commentator Evgeny Morozov, who said that he doubted \"the sincerity of Google's threat\".) \u2022\u00a0Companies rarely admit to cyber attacks, even unsuccessful ones, and Google was making a statement that it takes security seriously as it hosts more and more of its users' data. \u2022 Lastly, Google doesn't have as much to lose in China today as it does in other markets.China is one of a handful of countries where Google doesn't dominate the search engine market. Homegrown search engine Baidu holds the kind of dominant position that Google enjoys in the US, Australia and most of Europe. Regardless, Google still managed to capture a third of search revenue in China last summer. However, Goldman Sachs analysts estimate that the loss of Google's China earnings are likely to be \"immaterial\" for the company, as it's estimated to draw just about 1% of its total revenue from mainland China. But if Google pulls out of China, that doesn't mean that it won't have a virtual presence there. Even if Chinese authorities block it, getting around the Great Firewall isn't difficult for Chinese internet users who want unfiltered information. James Fallows points out in the Atlantic how easy it is for Chinese users to get what they want:In terms of information flow into China, this decision probably makes no real difference at all. Why? Anybody inside China who really wants to get to Google.com \u2013 or BBC or whatever site may be blocked for the moment \u2013 can still do so easily, by using a proxy server or buying (for under $1 a week) a VPN service. Google.com will still be available to those who want it. Regardless, Fallows was still concerned that China was entering its \"Bush-Cheney era\". However, the focus on the issue of human rights has masked some very real reasons why Google threw down the gauntlet. With the theft of its corporate secrets, combined with worries not only about human rights activists, but also about the safety of its own employees in China, Google's decision starts to make more sense. Chinese nationalist responseChinese internet watchers know that criticism of the country is often met with a strong nationalistic response. The excellent China blog EastSouthWestNorth highlighted comments from Chinese bloggers and even one senior employee at China's top search engine, Baidu. Blogger Xiang Ligang called Google's decision \"psychological warfare\" and said that like other American companies, Google had failed to adapt to the Chinese market, failing to respect copyright and allowing people to search for pornography. Jiang Baijing at People's Net said, \"Ho ho, Google is just throwing a 'hissy fit' now!\" and called the search giant \"the capitalists Google\". In the context of the allegations of cyber-espionage, it's interesting to read between the lines of this particular post. EastSouthWestNorth also highlighted the missive posted by the \"chief design officer\" at Chinese search king Baidu. He called Google a profiteer and added:The tone of the top Google legal adviser disgusts me. He could have said that they are withdrawing for economic reasons, plain and simple. Instead, they have to make themselves look good by saying that Google was attacked by Chinese people, that Gmail accounts of Chinese dissidents were attacked, and so on in order to explain why they are withdrawing from China. This type of tone is an insult to the intelligence of the ordinary Chinese citizens. But it may just appeal to certain supercilious Westerners who have never been to China, know nothing whatsoever about China but like to criticise China all the same.Upset with negative responses, he closed comments on the post and added, \"If you want to whine, go to Twitter\". Twitter is one of the sites blocked by the Chinese government. The China Digital Times collected the response from Chinese users on Twitter. Unspurprisingly, the comments are broadly supportive of Google. A taste of the comments they gathered and translated:\u2022 @qhgy RT @Lyooooo: If Google leaves I won't use Baidu or let my children or grandchildren use it (If I have them) #GoogleCN\u2022 @miyafan Now begin doing two tasks 1. Quickly use Google to search censored material 2. study how to scale the wall #GoogleCN\u2022 @mranti Withdrawal of Google means: 1 Scaling the wall is now an essential tool 2 Techies, you should immigrate. Really #GoogleCNInternational blog-watching network Global Voices said that Chinese internet users feared the country would now become a closed network. Global Voices' Bob Chen found this quote on Twitter from pzhtx: Google\u70ed\u699c\u4e2d\"\u5929\u5b89\u95e8\"\u4e0a\u5347\u5230\u7b2c\u4e00\u4e86\uff0c\u4e2d\u56fd\u7f51\u6c11\u5728\u9001Google\u6700\u540e\u4e00\u7a0bIn the list of pop tags, \"Tiananmen\" rises to the first place. The Chinese netizens are saying goodbye to Google in this way.", "tags": ["Technology", "Google", "China", "Hacking", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Google and China: superpower standoff"},{"date": "2010-06-25T23:02:32Z", "country": "china", "content": "The resident of 550 Huaihai Road in Shanghai is a rather unusual migrant. Born in Wisconsin on 9\u00a0March 1959, Barbara Millicent Roberts is the world's most famous supermodel. She drives a Corvette convertible, owns a dream home with a pool, parties with jocks and adores shopping. In the US,\u00a0she was a\u00a0prom queen and a role model. In\u00a0China, she is emerging as an ambassador for consumer culture.Better known as Barbie, this 30cm-tall icon was first sold in China in the early 1990s, but it was not until 2009 that she was given her own home in the retail heartland of Shanghai. Mattel,\u00a0the world's biggest toy company, marked her 50th\u00a0birthday by opening the planet's largest Barbie emporium. Covered in pink plastic, the six-storey doll's house on Huaihai Road became an instant landmark. Martial arts star Jet Li and the actor Christy Chung were among the celebrities at its launch. This was more than a party; it was the start of a marketing campaign aimed at prolonging and expanding the lifestyle championed by the toy firm. For the Barbie market to continue to grow for another 50 years, the doll would have to\u00a0make it big in China.When I lunch at Barbie's place, in the fantastically kitsch restaurant with a menu devised by chef David Laris, it doesn't seem to be hugely popular. Along with Barbie\u2122 burgers with Barbie\u2122 pink sauce, Ken burgers, pinktastic pasta, doll-icious desserts and Barbie\u2122 tini cocktails, the restaurant boasts generous promotional offers: those opting for the special meal receive a boxed set of Barbie plates and cutlery to take away.I ask Liu Yunting, who works for an advertising company, what she plans to do with her new tableware. \"I will use it myself,\" she says.Isn't it a little childish? \"Not at all. It is cute. This is much better than the stuff for children. We\u00a0know better how to appreciate it.\"Liu is a member of the fastest-growing consumer class: single women \u2013 or xiaobailing (white-collar princesses). They have high levels of disposable income and a craving for designer labels. For marketing moguls, they are the future face of consumer power. State\u00a0planners forecast that half the population will be middle class by 2020.Until recently, China was living within the planet's means. If everyone in the world consumed what the average Mr or Mrs Wang did in 2007, we'd just about stay within the sustainable resources of our planet. Humanity would have a balanced ecological budget. But, understandably, Mr and Mrs Wang wanted to keep up with Mr and Mrs Jones on the other side of the Pacific. That was human nature. It was also bad news for the environment, because if we all ate, shopped and travelled like those average Americans, we'd need 4.5 Earths.In recent years, the planet's largest corporations have become dependent on the Wangs catching up with the Joneses. The US had shopped until its economy dropped. Sinking in debt, plagued by obesity and increasingly dependent on military might to protect its lifestyle, the world's superconsumer was groaning with indigestion. Europe was too decrepit and conservative to take up the slack, so global manufacturers, retailers and restaurant chains were desperate to stimulate the Chinese appetite. Shanghai was their beachhead. While information firms and political lobbyists headed to Beijing and manufacturers flocked to Guangzhou, retail giants almost invariably chose Shanghai for their China headquarters and their first showrooms. From Kentucky Fried Chicken, McDonald's and Starbucks to Louis Vuitton, Gucci and Chanel, international brands made the city a giant shopping mall. Shanghai became the biggest, richest, most globalised mass of modernity in China, home to the most luxurious boutiques, the tallest buildings, the nation's first formula one track, the biggest auto companies, the second busiest port in the world and a gathering horde of international salesmen trying to sell the American consumer lifestyle.Chinese consumers have never had more options. America's Wal-Mart, France's Carrefour, Britain's Tesco and Japan's Ito Yokado are expanding in China faster than in any other country. Each year, they open hundreds of new stores in the expectation that demand will surge as more rural migrants move into cities and work their way into the middle class. Young urbanites are becoming as enthusiastic about french fries, burgers and fried chicken as their counterparts in New York or London. When the first KFC opened near Tiananmen Square in 1987, it was seen as a novel western dining experience; 20 years later, the company has 2,000 outlets in 400 cities, employing 200,000 people, making it easily the biggest restaurant chain in China. In roughly the same period, McDonald's had grown from one restaurant to 800.Along with the changing diet came a surge in obesity, diabetes and heart disease. Obese children used to be rare in China; now nearly 15% of the population is overweight. Shanghai is often cited as the worst affected city. Barbie\u2122 burgers and the like are part of an increasingly carnivorous diet. To\u00a0feed its growing livestock, China imports huge quantities of soya, much of it from Brazil, which has resulted in accelerated clearance of Amazonian forest and Cerrado savanna. Like many other wealthy cities, the high-protein, high-octane, jet-set lifestyle is being paid for elsewhere.I meet my guide, Emily Zhang Huijia, a connoisseur of consumption, outside number 18 the Bund. Once the China HQ of Standard Chartered Bank, the Bund is now a centre for shopping, eating and clubbing. Emily is its PR manager. A fashionista since her teens, she has worked for Gucci, Yves Saint Laurent and Chanel, and says she was brought up on Vogue, Glamour and OK! magazines.By western standards, her childhood was not privileged. In 1985, when she was three, her family got its first colour television. In 1992, around the time the first Barbies went on sale in China, they bought their first air-conditioner; so did everyone in the neighbourhood. The Zhangs had their first fixed phone line installed when Emily was six. By the time she was 16, they were connected to the internet. My family in the UK had a phone three generations before Emily's, but her parents went online four years earlier than mine.By 2006, the average person in Shanghai owned two mobile phones, 1.7 air-conditioners, 1.7 colour television sets, more than one fridge and spent 14,761 yuan a year (around \u00a31,455), some 70% more than the rest of the country. They use almost twice as much toilet paper as the average in developed nations and have a bigger carbon footprint than people in the UK. The city is consuming beyond the planet's means, and its appetite is growing by the day. By the time Emily's generation were earning a salary, they could afford more than the essentials; they could buy style. \"I'm a Shanghai girl,\" she says. \"We don't earn so much, but we see luxury brands every day. We don't want to buy anything else.\"Most of her friends are in the industry and\u00a0they share information about discounts and sample sales. At her first sale, she blew a third of her salary on Fendi sunglasses. \"It is like a fever,\" she says. \"The price is so low, you cannot refuse.\"Like many a proud shopper, Emily lists how much she saved rather than how much she spent. She is wearing a half-price Dior watch reduced by 2,900 yuan (\u00a3286). In her 40 sq m flat near Fuxing Park, she has dozens of other bags, accessories and clothes, including an Armani coat for 999 yuan (\u00a398), discounted from 9,900 (\u00a3976). Compared with friends, she says, she is restrained.In the last three years, Emily's monthly salary has increased from 3,000 yuan to just under 20,000, putting her firmly in the middle-class bracket. She eats at restaurants at weekends, has a French boyfriend, plays poker every Thursday. Business and pleasure are mixed. Her favourite after-hours hangout, she says, is the building where she works. \"Bund 18 has the coolest nightclub in Shanghai, so it's probably also the coolest in China.\" We agree to meet there again at midnight.After dark, the Bund's spotlit neoclassical pillars and low-rise architecture are reminiscent of London. On the other side of the Huangpu river, however, the futuristic Pudong skyline rises higher than almost anywhere on Earth, including one of the world's tallest buildings, the 492m bottle opener-shaped Shanghai World Financial Centre. Twenty years ago, most of Pudong was farmland. Today, it pulsates with light and colour.The crowd in the club is made up mostly of expat western men and their Chinese girlfriends. In the cigar lounge, Emily introduces me to a French food and beverage manager, Julian Desmettre, who describes how the nouveau riche from Taiwan, Hong Kong and Singapore have made the city their playground: \"Shanghai is like Paris during la belle \u00e9poque. This is the city of wealth and style, where people must show their money, where they are judged by how they dress, where they look down on those with less than themselves.\"Julian arrived in Shanghai as a student eight years ago with 5,000 yuan in his pocket. Now, he has on his wrist an Omega watch worth six times that amount. \"My life here is better than in France. I have a big apartment, a cleaner, a compound with a pool and a gym. It is so comfortable, it is almost too much.\"Most revellers in the lounge are European. \"Where can I meet Chinese partygoers?\" I\u00a0ask Emily, but she is reluctant to recommend anywhere: \"There are clubs, but they are the type of place you'd find in a second-tier city. The music and decor are not as good, but Chinese men prefer them because they don't want to be near foreigners. Chinese women are different. They are\u00a0more open. They go where the quality is.\"Wandering around local bars and restaurants, I\u00a0meet bar owners who organise prostitutes for customers and set up trips to karaoke parlours, where hostesses strip off to sing. Shanghai seems to be emulating the consumer sex industry of Tokyo; the hostess bar scene is reminiscent of Japan at the height of its \"bubble economy\".The next day, Emily introduces me to Cindy Tai, the head of a marketing agency and former head of EMI Music in China, who helped organise the first Rolling Stones concert in Shanghai. As a child during the Cultural Revolution, Cindy and her academic parents were sent from Shanghai to a farm on the nearby island of Chongming. \"We had enough to eat, but nothing to spare. We were very happy if we got a little meat on the table once a week. My\u00a0parents suffered. I vowed that one day I\u00a0would buy them whatever they wanted.\"She has achieved that ambition; now, her dream is \"to create an organic farm. I'd like to grow fruit, vegetables and rice, raise pigs and chickens. And to have a helicopter, because the traffic is so bad.\" But like many affluent consumers around the world, Cindy's environmentalism seems selective. She has blueberries delivered from an organic farm, baguettes from a French bakery in Xintiandi and olive oil from Italy. She eats out at least once a day, and at one point she and her French husband had four cars: a BMW, an MG and two Mercs. Now they have two; a sign, she says, of their increasing concern for the planet. Later, however, she reveals that her interest has switched to yachts. One is moored near their second home in Cannes.She may yet get another luxury car. Cindy is a member of the Shanghai Porsche club, mainly to\u00a0keep up with her friends, and has been invited to an awards ceremony hosted by Jaguar. I\u00a0shamelessly ask if I can come along.The venue for the Jaguar Gorgeous Award Party is a renovated mansion off Huaihai Road, a few minutes' walk from the Barbie store. In cocktail dresses and designer suits, guests sip wine in the courtyard, where they are treated to a sales pitch for the new 5-litre XKR: \"It is a wow car!\" gushes a PR lady who introduces herself by her westernised name, Seraph. I am sceptical: \"But you can barely move in Shanghai's traffic. Why would anyone want such a\u00a0huge engine?\"\"Rich people never take the subway,\" Seraph replies. \"Even if the traffic is bad, they need a car. Jaguar is nothing but gorgeous and beautiful.\"In the five years to 2009, sales of luxury cars in China rose five-fold, de luxe villas seven-fold and luxury goods tripled. This was just the start of a spending splurge: the number of wealthy households is forecast to double again by 2015.Earthwatch Institute estimates that if China's 1.3 billion people were to consume at the same rate as Americans, global production of steel, paper and cars would have to double, oil output would need to rise by 20m barrels a day and miners would have to dig an extra 5bn tons of coal. If it followed the US appetite, China would chew its way through 80% of current meat production and two-thirds of the global grain harvest. \"China is telescoping history,\" says Lester Brown, president of Earthwatch. \"It forces us to focus on what happens when huge numbers of low-income people rise rapidly in affluence. Chinese consumption shows the need to reconstruct the world economy.\"Instead of relying on an ever greater consumption of resources to generate growth, Brown says mankind needs to move to a fairer, more sustainable model. Yet the opposite seems to be happening. Global corporations and the communist government are trying to make China the greatest shopper of them all. In Shanghai, that goal is already being realised. By one estimate, the average carbon dioxide emissions of its residents have already overtaken those in Tokyo, New York and London. If there is a glimmer of environmental hope, it is that even in Shanghai people have not yet fully embraced western levels of throwaway consumption. Many still prefer flasks of hot tea to cans of Coke, and in the supermarkets the average basket of goods is smaller than in the west and profit margins are lower. This thrift is not inspired by environmental concerns, but by a\u00a0traditional desire to live within one's means.Even so, the rest of the country has some way to go to catch up with Shanghai, which is what the government wants. This will require a great deal more energy and raw materials. To provide everyone with a Shanghai lifestyle, factories will\u00a0need to churn out an extra 159 million refrigerators, 213 million televisions, 233 million computers, 166 million microwave ovens, 260 million air-conditioners and 187 million cars.The retail market, meanwhile, is becoming less diverse the bigger it grows. Paul French, a Shanghai-based marketing consultant, says the problem is that the shopping malls designed to create the image of a good life do not reflect reality for most people: \"They are building more and more malls filled with luxury brands. Like the power stations in Soviet-era Russia, they are being built not because of demand but because of prestige. Every official in China wants one to show their city is on the international map.\"These emporiums are designed to generate desire, not meet needs. Many are dismissed by locals as gui gouwu zhongxin (ghost malls) because they attract so few customers. Yet in Shanghai they are everywhere. Xujiahui intersection, for example, is ringed by six department stores. Among them is the Orient Shopping Mall, boasting Est\u00e9e Lauder cosmetics, Rolex watches, Cartier pens and Dior lipstick. Passing through the revolving door one weekday morning, I\u00a0see not a single customer. Not even a window shopper.This is an edited extract from When A Billion Chinese Jump by Jonathan Watts, published by Faber in July, at \u00a314.99. To order a copy for \u00a39.99, go to guardianbooks.co.uk or call 0330 333 6846.", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Environment", "Society", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China: The next superconsumer?"},{"date": "2010-06-25T23:02:32Z", "country": "china", "content": "The resident of 550 Huaihai Road in Shanghai is a rather unusual migrant. Born in Wisconsin on 9\u00a0March 1959, Barbara Millicent Roberts is the world's most famous supermodel. She drives a Corvette convertible, owns a dream home with a pool, parties with jocks and adores shopping. In the US,\u00a0she was a\u00a0prom queen and a role model. In\u00a0China, she is emerging as an ambassador for consumer culture.Better known as Barbie, this 30cm-tall icon was first sold in China in the early 1990s, but it was not until 2009 that she was given her own home in the retail heartland of Shanghai. Mattel,\u00a0the world's biggest toy company, marked her 50th\u00a0birthday by opening the planet's largest Barbie emporium. Covered in pink plastic, the six-storey doll's house on Huaihai Road became an instant landmark. Martial arts star Jet Li and the actor Christy Chung were among the celebrities at its launch. This was more than a party; it was the start of a marketing campaign aimed at prolonging and expanding the lifestyle championed by the toy firm. For the Barbie market to continue to grow for another 50 years, the doll would have to\u00a0make it big in China.When I lunch at Barbie's place, in the fantastically kitsch restaurant with a menu devised by chef David Laris, it doesn't seem to be hugely popular. Along with Barbie\u2122 burgers with Barbie\u2122 pink sauce, Ken burgers, pinktastic pasta, doll-icious desserts and Barbie\u2122 tini cocktails, the restaurant boasts generous promotional offers: those opting for the special meal receive a boxed set of Barbie plates and cutlery to take away.I ask Liu Yunting, who works for an advertising company, what she plans to do with her new tableware. \"I will use it myself,\" she says.Isn't it a little childish? \"Not at all. It is cute. This is much better than the stuff for children. We\u00a0know better how to appreciate it.\"Liu is a member of the fastest-growing consumer class: single women \u2013 or xiaobailing (white-collar princesses). They have high levels of disposable income and a craving for designer labels. For marketing moguls, they are the future face of consumer power. State\u00a0planners forecast that half the population will be middle class by 2020.Until recently, China was living within the planet's means. If everyone in the world consumed what the average Mr or Mrs Wang did in 2007, we'd just about stay within the sustainable resources of our planet. Humanity would have a balanced ecological budget. But, understandably, Mr and Mrs Wang wanted to keep up with Mr and Mrs Jones on the other side of the Pacific. That was human nature. It was also bad news for the environment, because if we all ate, shopped and travelled like those average Americans, we'd need 4.5 Earths.In recent years, the planet's largest corporations have become dependent on the Wangs catching up with the Joneses. The US had shopped until its economy dropped. Sinking in debt, plagued by obesity and increasingly dependent on military might to protect its lifestyle, the world's superconsumer was groaning with indigestion. Europe was too decrepit and conservative to take up the slack, so global manufacturers, retailers and restaurant chains were desperate to stimulate the Chinese appetite. Shanghai was their beachhead. While information firms and political lobbyists headed to Beijing and manufacturers flocked to Guangzhou, retail giants almost invariably chose Shanghai for their China headquarters and their first showrooms. From Kentucky Fried Chicken, McDonald's and Starbucks to Louis Vuitton, Gucci and Chanel, international brands made the city a giant shopping mall. Shanghai became the biggest, richest, most globalised mass of modernity in China, home to the most luxurious boutiques, the tallest buildings, the nation's first formula one track, the biggest auto companies, the second busiest port in the world and a gathering horde of international salesmen trying to sell the American consumer lifestyle.Chinese consumers have never had more options. America's Wal-Mart, France's Carrefour, Britain's Tesco and Japan's Ito Yokado are expanding in China faster than in any other country. Each year, they open hundreds of new stores in the expectation that demand will surge as more rural migrants move into cities and work their way into the middle class. Young urbanites are becoming as enthusiastic about french fries, burgers and fried chicken as their counterparts in New York or London. When the first KFC opened near Tiananmen Square in 1987, it was seen as a novel western dining experience; 20 years later, the company has 2,000 outlets in 400 cities, employing 200,000 people, making it easily the biggest restaurant chain in China. In roughly the same period, McDonald's had grown from one restaurant to 800.Along with the changing diet came a surge in obesity, diabetes and heart disease. Obese children used to be rare in China; now nearly 15% of the population is overweight. Shanghai is often cited as the worst affected city. Barbie\u2122 burgers and the like are part of an increasingly carnivorous diet. To\u00a0feed its growing livestock, China imports huge quantities of soya, much of it from Brazil, which has resulted in accelerated clearance of Amazonian forest and Cerrado savanna. Like many other wealthy cities, the high-protein, high-octane, jet-set lifestyle is being paid for elsewhere.I meet my guide, Emily Zhang Huijia, a connoisseur of consumption, outside number 18 the Bund. Once the China HQ of Standard Chartered Bank, the Bund is now a centre for shopping, eating and clubbing. Emily is its PR manager. A fashionista since her teens, she has worked for Gucci, Yves Saint Laurent and Chanel, and says she was brought up on Vogue, Glamour and OK! magazines.By western standards, her childhood was not privileged. In 1985, when she was three, her family got its first colour television. In 1992, around the time the first Barbies went on sale in China, they bought their first air-conditioner; so did everyone in the neighbourhood. The Zhangs had their first fixed phone line installed when Emily was six. By the time she was 16, they were connected to the internet. My family in the UK had a phone three generations before Emily's, but her parents went online four years earlier than mine.By 2006, the average person in Shanghai owned two mobile phones, 1.7 air-conditioners, 1.7 colour television sets, more than one fridge and spent 14,761 yuan a year (around \u00a31,455), some 70% more than the rest of the country. They use almost twice as much toilet paper as the average in developed nations and have a bigger carbon footprint than people in the UK. The city is consuming beyond the planet's means, and its appetite is growing by the day. By the time Emily's generation were earning a salary, they could afford more than the essentials; they could buy style. \"I'm a Shanghai girl,\" she says. \"We don't earn so much, but we see luxury brands every day. We don't want to buy anything else.\"Most of her friends are in the industry and\u00a0they share information about discounts and sample sales. At her first sale, she blew a third of her salary on Fendi sunglasses. \"It is like a fever,\" she says. \"The price is so low, you cannot refuse.\"Like many a proud shopper, Emily lists how much she saved rather than how much she spent. She is wearing a half-price Dior watch reduced by 2,900 yuan (\u00a3286). In her 40 sq m flat near Fuxing Park, she has dozens of other bags, accessories and clothes, including an Armani coat for 999 yuan (\u00a398), discounted from 9,900 (\u00a3976). Compared with friends, she says, she is restrained.In the last three years, Emily's monthly salary has increased from 3,000 yuan to just under 20,000, putting her firmly in the middle-class bracket. She eats at restaurants at weekends, has a French boyfriend, plays poker every Thursday. Business and pleasure are mixed. Her favourite after-hours hangout, she says, is the building where she works. \"Bund 18 has the coolest nightclub in Shanghai, so it's probably also the coolest in China.\" We agree to meet there again at midnight.After dark, the Bund's spotlit neoclassical pillars and low-rise architecture are reminiscent of London. On the other side of the Huangpu river, however, the futuristic Pudong skyline rises higher than almost anywhere on Earth, including one of the world's tallest buildings, the 492m bottle opener-shaped Shanghai World Financial Centre. Twenty years ago, most of Pudong was farmland. Today, it pulsates with light and colour.The crowd in the club is made up mostly of expat western men and their Chinese girlfriends. In the cigar lounge, Emily introduces me to a French food and beverage manager, Julian Desmettre, who describes how the nouveau riche from Taiwan, Hong Kong and Singapore have made the city their playground: \"Shanghai is like Paris during la belle \u00e9poque. This is the city of wealth and style, where people must show their money, where they are judged by how they dress, where they look down on those with less than themselves.\"Julian arrived in Shanghai as a student eight years ago with 5,000 yuan in his pocket. Now, he has on his wrist an Omega watch worth six times that amount. \"My life here is better than in France. I have a big apartment, a cleaner, a compound with a pool and a gym. It is so comfortable, it is almost too much.\"Most revellers in the lounge are European. \"Where can I meet Chinese partygoers?\" I\u00a0ask Emily, but she is reluctant to recommend anywhere: \"There are clubs, but they are the type of place you'd find in a second-tier city. The music and decor are not as good, but Chinese men prefer them because they don't want to be near foreigners. Chinese women are different. They are\u00a0more open. They go where the quality is.\"Wandering around local bars and restaurants, I\u00a0meet bar owners who organise prostitutes for customers and set up trips to karaoke parlours, where hostesses strip off to sing. Shanghai seems to be emulating the consumer sex industry of Tokyo; the hostess bar scene is reminiscent of Japan at the height of its \"bubble economy\".The next day, Emily introduces me to Cindy Tai, the head of a marketing agency and former head of EMI Music in China, who helped organise the first Rolling Stones concert in Shanghai. As a child during the Cultural Revolution, Cindy and her academic parents were sent from Shanghai to a farm on the nearby island of Chongming. \"We had enough to eat, but nothing to spare. We were very happy if we got a little meat on the table once a week. My\u00a0parents suffered. I vowed that one day I\u00a0would buy them whatever they wanted.\"She has achieved that ambition; now, her dream is \"to create an organic farm. I'd like to grow fruit, vegetables and rice, raise pigs and chickens. And to have a helicopter, because the traffic is so bad.\" But like many affluent consumers around the world, Cindy's environmentalism seems selective. She has blueberries delivered from an organic farm, baguettes from a French bakery in Xintiandi and olive oil from Italy. She eats out at least once a day, and at one point she and her French husband had four cars: a BMW, an MG and two Mercs. Now they have two; a sign, she says, of their increasing concern for the planet. Later, however, she reveals that her interest has switched to yachts. One is moored near their second home in Cannes.She may yet get another luxury car. Cindy is a member of the Shanghai Porsche club, mainly to\u00a0keep up with her friends, and has been invited to an awards ceremony hosted by Jaguar. I\u00a0shamelessly ask if I can come along.The venue for the Jaguar Gorgeous Award Party is a renovated mansion off Huaihai Road, a few minutes' walk from the Barbie store. In cocktail dresses and designer suits, guests sip wine in the courtyard, where they are treated to a sales pitch for the new 5-litre XKR: \"It is a wow car!\" gushes a PR lady who introduces herself by her westernised name, Seraph. I am sceptical: \"But you can barely move in Shanghai's traffic. Why would anyone want such a\u00a0huge engine?\"\"Rich people never take the subway,\" Seraph replies. \"Even if the traffic is bad, they need a car. Jaguar is nothing but gorgeous and beautiful.\"In the five years to 2009, sales of luxury cars in China rose five-fold, de luxe villas seven-fold and luxury goods tripled. This was just the start of a spending splurge: the number of wealthy households is forecast to double again by 2015.Earthwatch Institute estimates that if China's 1.3 billion people were to consume at the same rate as Americans, global production of steel, paper and cars would have to double, oil output would need to rise by 20m barrels a day and miners would have to dig an extra 5bn tons of coal. If it followed the US appetite, China would chew its way through 80% of current meat production and two-thirds of the global grain harvest. \"China is telescoping history,\" says Lester Brown, president of Earthwatch. \"It forces us to focus on what happens when huge numbers of low-income people rise rapidly in affluence. Chinese consumption shows the need to reconstruct the world economy.\"Instead of relying on an ever greater consumption of resources to generate growth, Brown says mankind needs to move to a fairer, more sustainable model. Yet the opposite seems to be happening. Global corporations and the communist government are trying to make China the greatest shopper of them all. In Shanghai, that goal is already being realised. By one estimate, the average carbon dioxide emissions of its residents have already overtaken those in Tokyo, New York and London. If there is a glimmer of environmental hope, it is that even in Shanghai people have not yet fully embraced western levels of throwaway consumption. Many still prefer flasks of hot tea to cans of Coke, and in the supermarkets the average basket of goods is smaller than in the west and profit margins are lower. This thrift is not inspired by environmental concerns, but by a\u00a0traditional desire to live within one's means.Even so, the rest of the country has some way to go to catch up with Shanghai, which is what the government wants. This will require a great deal more energy and raw materials. To provide everyone with a Shanghai lifestyle, factories will\u00a0need to churn out an extra 159 million refrigerators, 213 million televisions, 233 million computers, 166 million microwave ovens, 260 million air-conditioners and 187 million cars.The retail market, meanwhile, is becoming less diverse the bigger it grows. Paul French, a Shanghai-based marketing consultant, says the problem is that the shopping malls designed to create the image of a good life do not reflect reality for most people: \"They are building more and more malls filled with luxury brands. Like the power stations in Soviet-era Russia, they are being built not because of demand but because of prestige. Every official in China wants one to show their city is on the international map.\"These emporiums are designed to generate desire, not meet needs. Many are dismissed by locals as gui gouwu zhongxin (ghost malls) because they attract so few customers. Yet in Shanghai they are everywhere. Xujiahui intersection, for example, is ringed by six department stores. Among them is the Orient Shopping Mall, boasting Est\u00e9e Lauder cosmetics, Rolex watches, Cartier pens and Dior lipstick. Passing through the revolving door one weekday morning, I\u00a0see not a single customer. Not even a window shopper.This is an edited extract from When A Billion Chinese Jump by Jonathan Watts, published by Faber in July, at \u00a314.99. To order a copy for \u00a39.99, go to guardianbooks.co.uk or call 0330 333 6846.", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Environment", "Society", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China: The next superconsumer?"},{"date": "2010-06-20T14:12:30Z", "country": "china", "content": "Huge floods in southern China have killed at least 132 people and displaced 800,000, the government said today as the annual storm season picked up ferocity.Local media showed images of people abandoning their homes in rubber dinghies in Nanchang, Jiangxi province, one of the worst-hit areas.Many carried bundles of possessions salvaged from the waters that turned the streets into rivers.More than 10 million people have lost property, been injured or suffered a cut in power or water supplies as a result of the week of torrential rain across Guangdong, Fujian, Guangxi, Jiangxi and Sichuan.Many of these areas have gone from one extreme to another, according to the government. Earlier this year, south-east China endured its worst drought in living memory, but in the past week, some places have been inundated with three times the average rain for this period.With thousands of houses destroyed and businesses and power lines put out of action in Guangdong and Fujian \u2013 the industrial hubs on the coast \u2013 the ministry of water resources estimated the economic damage at 14bn yuan (\u00a3400m).The deaths occurred when people were washed into fast-flowing rivers that burst their banks, or when mudslides buried homes. As well as the confirmed dead, another 86 people were missing.The emergency services have upgraded their threat assessment as the National Meteorological Centre warned of more downpours in the days ahead. \"The scope and intensity of the rain have increased,\" it said on its website. Some areas are forecast to receive 200mm (nearly 8in) of rain.The state council, China's cabinet, has dispatched a team to co-ordinate the relief effort. The People's Liberation Army has joined firefighters and police in a mass evacuation involving boats and helicopters. Transport links have been severed in many areas, due to road damage, flooded railway lines and the danger of travelling in fierce storms. Hundreds of flights have been cancelled. Newspapers have run pictures of elderly people being carried on the backs of their children or grandchildren, wading through the flood waters. Families have taken refuge in public buildings.Food supplies \u2013 already hurt by the earlier drought \u2013 will take a further hit. The government estimates that 500,000 hectares (1.24m acres) of crops have been affected. Farmers have been salvaging what they can.Southern China experiences flooding almost every summer, but the Beijing climate centre says extreme weather events have increased in recent years, with droughts becoming longer and rain falling in more intense and damaging bursts.", "tags": ["China", "Flooding", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Environment", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China devastated by floods"},{"date": "2010-06-25T23:02:32Z", "country": "china", "content": "The resident of 550 Huaihai Road in Shanghai is a rather unusual migrant. Born in Wisconsin on 9\u00a0March 1959, Barbara Millicent Roberts is the world's most famous supermodel. She drives a Corvette convertible, owns a dream home with a pool, parties with jocks and adores shopping. In the US,\u00a0she was a\u00a0prom queen and a role model. In\u00a0China, she is emerging as an ambassador for consumer culture.Better known as Barbie, this 30cm-tall icon was first sold in China in the early 1990s, but it was not until 2009 that she was given her own home in the retail heartland of Shanghai. Mattel,\u00a0the world's biggest toy company, marked her 50th\u00a0birthday by opening the planet's largest Barbie emporium. Covered in pink plastic, the six-storey doll's house on Huaihai Road became an instant landmark. Martial arts star Jet Li and the actor Christy Chung were among the celebrities at its launch. This was more than a party; it was the start of a marketing campaign aimed at prolonging and expanding the lifestyle championed by the toy firm. For the Barbie market to continue to grow for another 50 years, the doll would have to\u00a0make it big in China.When I lunch at Barbie's place, in the fantastically kitsch restaurant with a menu devised by chef David Laris, it doesn't seem to be hugely popular. Along with Barbie\u2122 burgers with Barbie\u2122 pink sauce, Ken burgers, pinktastic pasta, doll-icious desserts and Barbie\u2122 tini cocktails, the restaurant boasts generous promotional offers: those opting for the special meal receive a boxed set of Barbie plates and cutlery to take away.I ask Liu Yunting, who works for an advertising company, what she plans to do with her new tableware. \"I will use it myself,\" she says.Isn't it a little childish? \"Not at all. It is cute. This is much better than the stuff for children. We\u00a0know better how to appreciate it.\"Liu is a member of the fastest-growing consumer class: single women \u2013 or xiaobailing (white-collar princesses). They have high levels of disposable income and a craving for designer labels. For marketing moguls, they are the future face of consumer power. State\u00a0planners forecast that half the population will be middle class by 2020.Until recently, China was living within the planet's means. If everyone in the world consumed what the average Mr or Mrs Wang did in 2007, we'd just about stay within the sustainable resources of our planet. Humanity would have a balanced ecological budget. But, understandably, Mr and Mrs Wang wanted to keep up with Mr and Mrs Jones on the other side of the Pacific. That was human nature. It was also bad news for the environment, because if we all ate, shopped and travelled like those average Americans, we'd need 4.5 Earths.In recent years, the planet's largest corporations have become dependent on the Wangs catching up with the Joneses. The US had shopped until its economy dropped. Sinking in debt, plagued by obesity and increasingly dependent on military might to protect its lifestyle, the world's superconsumer was groaning with indigestion. Europe was too decrepit and conservative to take up the slack, so global manufacturers, retailers and restaurant chains were desperate to stimulate the Chinese appetite. Shanghai was their beachhead. While information firms and political lobbyists headed to Beijing and manufacturers flocked to Guangzhou, retail giants almost invariably chose Shanghai for their China headquarters and their first showrooms. From Kentucky Fried Chicken, McDonald's and Starbucks to Louis Vuitton, Gucci and Chanel, international brands made the city a giant shopping mall. Shanghai became the biggest, richest, most globalised mass of modernity in China, home to the most luxurious boutiques, the tallest buildings, the nation's first formula one track, the biggest auto companies, the second busiest port in the world and a gathering horde of international salesmen trying to sell the American consumer lifestyle.Chinese consumers have never had more options. America's Wal-Mart, France's Carrefour, Britain's Tesco and Japan's Ito Yokado are expanding in China faster than in any other country. Each year, they open hundreds of new stores in the expectation that demand will surge as more rural migrants move into cities and work their way into the middle class. Young urbanites are becoming as enthusiastic about french fries, burgers and fried chicken as their counterparts in New York or London. When the first KFC opened near Tiananmen Square in 1987, it was seen as a novel western dining experience; 20 years later, the company has 2,000 outlets in 400 cities, employing 200,000 people, making it easily the biggest restaurant chain in China. In roughly the same period, McDonald's had grown from one restaurant to 800.Along with the changing diet came a surge in obesity, diabetes and heart disease. Obese children used to be rare in China; now nearly 15% of the population is overweight. Shanghai is often cited as the worst affected city. Barbie\u2122 burgers and the like are part of an increasingly carnivorous diet. To\u00a0feed its growing livestock, China imports huge quantities of soya, much of it from Brazil, which has resulted in accelerated clearance of Amazonian forest and Cerrado savanna. Like many other wealthy cities, the high-protein, high-octane, jet-set lifestyle is being paid for elsewhere.I meet my guide, Emily Zhang Huijia, a connoisseur of consumption, outside number 18 the Bund. Once the China HQ of Standard Chartered Bank, the Bund is now a centre for shopping, eating and clubbing. Emily is its PR manager. A fashionista since her teens, she has worked for Gucci, Yves Saint Laurent and Chanel, and says she was brought up on Vogue, Glamour and OK! magazines.By western standards, her childhood was not privileged. In 1985, when she was three, her family got its first colour television. In 1992, around the time the first Barbies went on sale in China, they bought their first air-conditioner; so did everyone in the neighbourhood. The Zhangs had their first fixed phone line installed when Emily was six. By the time she was 16, they were connected to the internet. My family in the UK had a phone three generations before Emily's, but her parents went online four years earlier than mine.By 2006, the average person in Shanghai owned two mobile phones, 1.7 air-conditioners, 1.7 colour television sets, more than one fridge and spent 14,761 yuan a year (around \u00a31,455), some 70% more than the rest of the country. They use almost twice as much toilet paper as the average in developed nations and have a bigger carbon footprint than people in the UK. The city is consuming beyond the planet's means, and its appetite is growing by the day. By the time Emily's generation were earning a salary, they could afford more than the essentials; they could buy style. \"I'm a Shanghai girl,\" she says. \"We don't earn so much, but we see luxury brands every day. We don't want to buy anything else.\"Most of her friends are in the industry and\u00a0they share information about discounts and sample sales. At her first sale, she blew a third of her salary on Fendi sunglasses. \"It is like a fever,\" she says. \"The price is so low, you cannot refuse.\"Like many a proud shopper, Emily lists how much she saved rather than how much she spent. She is wearing a half-price Dior watch reduced by 2,900 yuan (\u00a3286). In her 40 sq m flat near Fuxing Park, she has dozens of other bags, accessories and clothes, including an Armani coat for 999 yuan (\u00a398), discounted from 9,900 (\u00a3976). Compared with friends, she says, she is restrained.In the last three years, Emily's monthly salary has increased from 3,000 yuan to just under 20,000, putting her firmly in the middle-class bracket. She eats at restaurants at weekends, has a French boyfriend, plays poker every Thursday. Business and pleasure are mixed. Her favourite after-hours hangout, she says, is the building where she works. \"Bund 18 has the coolest nightclub in Shanghai, so it's probably also the coolest in China.\" We agree to meet there again at midnight.After dark, the Bund's spotlit neoclassical pillars and low-rise architecture are reminiscent of London. On the other side of the Huangpu river, however, the futuristic Pudong skyline rises higher than almost anywhere on Earth, including one of the world's tallest buildings, the 492m bottle opener-shaped Shanghai World Financial Centre. Twenty years ago, most of Pudong was farmland. Today, it pulsates with light and colour.The crowd in the club is made up mostly of expat western men and their Chinese girlfriends. In the cigar lounge, Emily introduces me to a French food and beverage manager, Julian Desmettre, who describes how the nouveau riche from Taiwan, Hong Kong and Singapore have made the city their playground: \"Shanghai is like Paris during la belle \u00e9poque. This is the city of wealth and style, where people must show their money, where they are judged by how they dress, where they look down on those with less than themselves.\"Julian arrived in Shanghai as a student eight years ago with 5,000 yuan in his pocket. Now, he has on his wrist an Omega watch worth six times that amount. \"My life here is better than in France. I have a big apartment, a cleaner, a compound with a pool and a gym. It is so comfortable, it is almost too much.\"Most revellers in the lounge are European. \"Where can I meet Chinese partygoers?\" I\u00a0ask Emily, but she is reluctant to recommend anywhere: \"There are clubs, but they are the type of place you'd find in a second-tier city. The music and decor are not as good, but Chinese men prefer them because they don't want to be near foreigners. Chinese women are different. They are\u00a0more open. They go where the quality is.\"Wandering around local bars and restaurants, I\u00a0meet bar owners who organise prostitutes for customers and set up trips to karaoke parlours, where hostesses strip off to sing. Shanghai seems to be emulating the consumer sex industry of Tokyo; the hostess bar scene is reminiscent of Japan at the height of its \"bubble economy\".The next day, Emily introduces me to Cindy Tai, the head of a marketing agency and former head of EMI Music in China, who helped organise the first Rolling Stones concert in Shanghai. As a child during the Cultural Revolution, Cindy and her academic parents were sent from Shanghai to a farm on the nearby island of Chongming. \"We had enough to eat, but nothing to spare. We were very happy if we got a little meat on the table once a week. My\u00a0parents suffered. I vowed that one day I\u00a0would buy them whatever they wanted.\"She has achieved that ambition; now, her dream is \"to create an organic farm. I'd like to grow fruit, vegetables and rice, raise pigs and chickens. And to have a helicopter, because the traffic is so bad.\" But like many affluent consumers around the world, Cindy's environmentalism seems selective. She has blueberries delivered from an organic farm, baguettes from a French bakery in Xintiandi and olive oil from Italy. She eats out at least once a day, and at one point she and her French husband had four cars: a BMW, an MG and two Mercs. Now they have two; a sign, she says, of their increasing concern for the planet. Later, however, she reveals that her interest has switched to yachts. One is moored near their second home in Cannes.She may yet get another luxury car. Cindy is a member of the Shanghai Porsche club, mainly to\u00a0keep up with her friends, and has been invited to an awards ceremony hosted by Jaguar. I\u00a0shamelessly ask if I can come along.The venue for the Jaguar Gorgeous Award Party is a renovated mansion off Huaihai Road, a few minutes' walk from the Barbie store. In cocktail dresses and designer suits, guests sip wine in the courtyard, where they are treated to a sales pitch for the new 5-litre XKR: \"It is a wow car!\" gushes a PR lady who introduces herself by her westernised name, Seraph. I am sceptical: \"But you can barely move in Shanghai's traffic. Why would anyone want such a\u00a0huge engine?\"\"Rich people never take the subway,\" Seraph replies. \"Even if the traffic is bad, they need a car. Jaguar is nothing but gorgeous and beautiful.\"In the five years to 2009, sales of luxury cars in China rose five-fold, de luxe villas seven-fold and luxury goods tripled. This was just the start of a spending splurge: the number of wealthy households is forecast to double again by 2015.Earthwatch Institute estimates that if China's 1.3 billion people were to consume at the same rate as Americans, global production of steel, paper and cars would have to double, oil output would need to rise by 20m barrels a day and miners would have to dig an extra 5bn tons of coal. If it followed the US appetite, China would chew its way through 80% of current meat production and two-thirds of the global grain harvest. \"China is telescoping history,\" says Lester Brown, president of Earthwatch. \"It forces us to focus on what happens when huge numbers of low-income people rise rapidly in affluence. Chinese consumption shows the need to reconstruct the world economy.\"Instead of relying on an ever greater consumption of resources to generate growth, Brown says mankind needs to move to a fairer, more sustainable model. Yet the opposite seems to be happening. Global corporations and the communist government are trying to make China the greatest shopper of them all. In Shanghai, that goal is already being realised. By one estimate, the average carbon dioxide emissions of its residents have already overtaken those in Tokyo, New York and London. If there is a glimmer of environmental hope, it is that even in Shanghai people have not yet fully embraced western levels of throwaway consumption. Many still prefer flasks of hot tea to cans of Coke, and in the supermarkets the average basket of goods is smaller than in the west and profit margins are lower. This thrift is not inspired by environmental concerns, but by a\u00a0traditional desire to live within one's means.Even so, the rest of the country has some way to go to catch up with Shanghai, which is what the government wants. This will require a great deal more energy and raw materials. To provide everyone with a Shanghai lifestyle, factories will\u00a0need to churn out an extra 159 million refrigerators, 213 million televisions, 233 million computers, 166 million microwave ovens, 260 million air-conditioners and 187 million cars.The retail market, meanwhile, is becoming less diverse the bigger it grows. Paul French, a Shanghai-based marketing consultant, says the problem is that the shopping malls designed to create the image of a good life do not reflect reality for most people: \"They are building more and more malls filled with luxury brands. Like the power stations in Soviet-era Russia, they are being built not because of demand but because of prestige. Every official in China wants one to show their city is on the international map.\"These emporiums are designed to generate desire, not meet needs. Many are dismissed by locals as gui gouwu zhongxin (ghost malls) because they attract so few customers. Yet in Shanghai they are everywhere. Xujiahui intersection, for example, is ringed by six department stores. Among them is the Orient Shopping Mall, boasting Est\u00e9e Lauder cosmetics, Rolex watches, Cartier pens and Dior lipstick. Passing through the revolving door one weekday morning, I\u00a0see not a single customer. Not even a window shopper.This is an edited extract from When A Billion Chinese Jump by Jonathan Watts, published by Faber in July, at \u00a314.99. To order a copy for \u00a39.99, go to guardianbooks.co.uk or call 0330 333 6846.", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Environment", "Society", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China: The next superconsumer?"},{"date": "2010-06-20T14:12:30Z", "country": "china", "content": "Huge floods in southern China have killed at least 132 people and displaced 800,000, the government said today as the annual storm season picked up ferocity.Local media showed images of people abandoning their homes in rubber dinghies in Nanchang, Jiangxi province, one of the worst-hit areas.Many carried bundles of possessions salvaged from the waters that turned the streets into rivers.More than 10 million people have lost property, been injured or suffered a cut in power or water supplies as a result of the week of torrential rain across Guangdong, Fujian, Guangxi, Jiangxi and Sichuan.Many of these areas have gone from one extreme to another, according to the government. Earlier this year, south-east China endured its worst drought in living memory, but in the past week, some places have been inundated with three times the average rain for this period.With thousands of houses destroyed and businesses and power lines put out of action in Guangdong and Fujian \u2013 the industrial hubs on the coast \u2013 the ministry of water resources estimated the economic damage at 14bn yuan (\u00a3400m).The deaths occurred when people were washed into fast-flowing rivers that burst their banks, or when mudslides buried homes. As well as the confirmed dead, another 86 people were missing.The emergency services have upgraded their threat assessment as the National Meteorological Centre warned of more downpours in the days ahead. \"The scope and intensity of the rain have increased,\" it said on its website. Some areas are forecast to receive 200mm (nearly 8in) of rain.The state council, China's cabinet, has dispatched a team to co-ordinate the relief effort. The People's Liberation Army has joined firefighters and police in a mass evacuation involving boats and helicopters. Transport links have been severed in many areas, due to road damage, flooded railway lines and the danger of travelling in fierce storms. Hundreds of flights have been cancelled. Newspapers have run pictures of elderly people being carried on the backs of their children or grandchildren, wading through the flood waters. Families have taken refuge in public buildings.Food supplies \u2013 already hurt by the earlier drought \u2013 will take a further hit. The government estimates that 500,000 hectares (1.24m acres) of crops have been affected. Farmers have been salvaging what they can.Southern China experiences flooding almost every summer, but the Beijing climate centre says extreme weather events have increased in recent years, with droughts becoming longer and rain falling in more intense and damaging bursts.", "tags": ["China", "Flooding", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Environment", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China devastated by floods"},{"date": "2010-06-05T17:00:43Z", "country": "china", "content": "I am writing from the Shanghai Forum, the annual event dubbed as Asia's version of the World Economic Forum in Davos. A major issue at the forum has been the need to alleviate China's impending labour shortage. The implications for Central America and other developing countries loom large.It might seem inconceivable that a country with more than 1 billion people would have a labour shortage, but it's true. According to reports in the New York Times, the shortage is due to two factors: the increase in the levels of Chinese people going through higher education and getting absorbed into the emerging high technology, high value-added sectors of the economy; and the decrease in China's birth rate since its \"one child\" policy that began in 1977.At the forum, Min Hua, director of the Institute of World Economy at Fudan University unveiled China's solution to the problem: the industrialisation of Chinese agriculture and the creation of scores of new cities to absorb the 800 million farmers who will migrate to those cities. That's right, China plans to move 800 million farmers to existing and newly created cities. If they mechanise the countryside and achieve similar productivity levels to the US, they say, China will only need 100 million people in the rural sector.When the nations of Central America hear about this they will be shaking in their (Chinese) boots. For years these countries have been working to hook their economies to the US market, with a particular emphasis on clothing and apparel exports. Beginning in the 1980s, most Central American nations set up export processing zones that export textiles and clothing to the United States. By 2001, 87% of all El Salvadoran exports to the US were from such zones. For Honduras, 78%, and Guatemala and Nicaragua each export 63% of their exports to the US were from export processing zones.The capstone of such efforts was the Central American Free Trade Agreement between the US, Central American nations (excluding Panama) and the Dominican Republic (Cafta, for short). Cafta, by lowering tariffs and locking in access to the US economy, was supposed to solidify Central America as a clothing hub. Then China crashed the party.In 2001, both China and Central America sold approximately $6.5bn worth of clothing exports to the United States, with each holding approximately 12% of the US market for clothing. In 2004, the year before Cafta went into effect and after China's WTO entry was in full swing, Central American exports to the US reached $7.5bn and China's were still in the same order of magnitude at $10.7bn.Yet since Cafta went into effect, Central American exports of clothing to the US have fallen by 25%. How could this happen? Clothing exports to the US from Central America in 2009 were down from $7.5bn in 2004 to $5.6bn but China's were up to $24.3bn \u2013 a 127% increase for China since 2004. The Central American share of US clothing imports has declined to 8.7%. China now holds 38% of the US import market for clothing. News of a Chinese labour shortage was thus very welcome in Central America. Central American nations, as well as Vietnam, India, Sri Lanka and some others would stand to gain. Hundreds of millions of \"new\" low-skilled workers however, could seal Central America's fate.As Roberto Porzecanski and I argue in our forthcoming book on China and the future of industrial competitiveness in the Americas, these trends are not reason to point fingers at China. Rather than bashing the Chinese, Central Americans, not to mention nations such as Mexico that have chosen a \"low-wage export to the US through free trade agreements\" development strategy, developing nations should look to learn from China. Both China and the Americas have been globalising their economies for 30 years. China has adopted a strategic and gradual approach to globalisation where the government plays a key role, the Americas have practised the Washington Consensus of rapid trade and investment liberalisation and yanking the government from economic affairs. China has turned out to be the best globaliser in the developing world.", "tags": ["International trade", "China", "US economy", "Business", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China crashes Cafta's party | Kevin Gallagher"},{"date": "2010-06-25T23:02:32Z", "country": "china", "content": "The resident of 550 Huaihai Road in Shanghai is a rather unusual migrant. Born in Wisconsin on 9\u00a0March 1959, Barbara Millicent Roberts is the world's most famous supermodel. She drives a Corvette convertible, owns a dream home with a pool, parties with jocks and adores shopping. In the US,\u00a0she was a\u00a0prom queen and a role model. In\u00a0China, she is emerging as an ambassador for consumer culture.Better known as Barbie, this 30cm-tall icon was first sold in China in the early 1990s, but it was not until 2009 that she was given her own home in the retail heartland of Shanghai. Mattel,\u00a0the world's biggest toy company, marked her 50th\u00a0birthday by opening the planet's largest Barbie emporium. Covered in pink plastic, the six-storey doll's house on Huaihai Road became an instant landmark. Martial arts star Jet Li and the actor Christy Chung were among the celebrities at its launch. This was more than a party; it was the start of a marketing campaign aimed at prolonging and expanding the lifestyle championed by the toy firm. For the Barbie market to continue to grow for another 50 years, the doll would have to\u00a0make it big in China.When I lunch at Barbie's place, in the fantastically kitsch restaurant with a menu devised by chef David Laris, it doesn't seem to be hugely popular. Along with Barbie\u2122 burgers with Barbie\u2122 pink sauce, Ken burgers, pinktastic pasta, doll-icious desserts and Barbie\u2122 tini cocktails, the restaurant boasts generous promotional offers: those opting for the special meal receive a boxed set of Barbie plates and cutlery to take away.I ask Liu Yunting, who works for an advertising company, what she plans to do with her new tableware. \"I will use it myself,\" she says.Isn't it a little childish? \"Not at all. It is cute. This is much better than the stuff for children. We\u00a0know better how to appreciate it.\"Liu is a member of the fastest-growing consumer class: single women \u2013 or xiaobailing (white-collar princesses). They have high levels of disposable income and a craving for designer labels. For marketing moguls, they are the future face of consumer power. State\u00a0planners forecast that half the population will be middle class by 2020.Until recently, China was living within the planet's means. If everyone in the world consumed what the average Mr or Mrs Wang did in 2007, we'd just about stay within the sustainable resources of our planet. Humanity would have a balanced ecological budget. But, understandably, Mr and Mrs Wang wanted to keep up with Mr and Mrs Jones on the other side of the Pacific. That was human nature. It was also bad news for the environment, because if we all ate, shopped and travelled like those average Americans, we'd need 4.5 Earths.In recent years, the planet's largest corporations have become dependent on the Wangs catching up with the Joneses. The US had shopped until its economy dropped. Sinking in debt, plagued by obesity and increasingly dependent on military might to protect its lifestyle, the world's superconsumer was groaning with indigestion. Europe was too decrepit and conservative to take up the slack, so global manufacturers, retailers and restaurant chains were desperate to stimulate the Chinese appetite. Shanghai was their beachhead. While information firms and political lobbyists headed to Beijing and manufacturers flocked to Guangzhou, retail giants almost invariably chose Shanghai for their China headquarters and their first showrooms. From Kentucky Fried Chicken, McDonald's and Starbucks to Louis Vuitton, Gucci and Chanel, international brands made the city a giant shopping mall. Shanghai became the biggest, richest, most globalised mass of modernity in China, home to the most luxurious boutiques, the tallest buildings, the nation's first formula one track, the biggest auto companies, the second busiest port in the world and a gathering horde of international salesmen trying to sell the American consumer lifestyle.Chinese consumers have never had more options. America's Wal-Mart, France's Carrefour, Britain's Tesco and Japan's Ito Yokado are expanding in China faster than in any other country. Each year, they open hundreds of new stores in the expectation that demand will surge as more rural migrants move into cities and work their way into the middle class. Young urbanites are becoming as enthusiastic about french fries, burgers and fried chicken as their counterparts in New York or London. When the first KFC opened near Tiananmen Square in 1987, it was seen as a novel western dining experience; 20 years later, the company has 2,000 outlets in 400 cities, employing 200,000 people, making it easily the biggest restaurant chain in China. In roughly the same period, McDonald's had grown from one restaurant to 800.Along with the changing diet came a surge in obesity, diabetes and heart disease. Obese children used to be rare in China; now nearly 15% of the population is overweight. Shanghai is often cited as the worst affected city. Barbie\u2122 burgers and the like are part of an increasingly carnivorous diet. To\u00a0feed its growing livestock, China imports huge quantities of soya, much of it from Brazil, which has resulted in accelerated clearance of Amazonian forest and Cerrado savanna. Like many other wealthy cities, the high-protein, high-octane, jet-set lifestyle is being paid for elsewhere.I meet my guide, Emily Zhang Huijia, a connoisseur of consumption, outside number 18 the Bund. Once the China HQ of Standard Chartered Bank, the Bund is now a centre for shopping, eating and clubbing. Emily is its PR manager. A fashionista since her teens, she has worked for Gucci, Yves Saint Laurent and Chanel, and says she was brought up on Vogue, Glamour and OK! magazines.By western standards, her childhood was not privileged. In 1985, when she was three, her family got its first colour television. In 1992, around the time the first Barbies went on sale in China, they bought their first air-conditioner; so did everyone in the neighbourhood. The Zhangs had their first fixed phone line installed when Emily was six. By the time she was 16, they were connected to the internet. My family in the UK had a phone three generations before Emily's, but her parents went online four years earlier than mine.By 2006, the average person in Shanghai owned two mobile phones, 1.7 air-conditioners, 1.7 colour television sets, more than one fridge and spent 14,761 yuan a year (around \u00a31,455), some 70% more than the rest of the country. They use almost twice as much toilet paper as the average in developed nations and have a bigger carbon footprint than people in the UK. The city is consuming beyond the planet's means, and its appetite is growing by the day. By the time Emily's generation were earning a salary, they could afford more than the essentials; they could buy style. \"I'm a Shanghai girl,\" she says. \"We don't earn so much, but we see luxury brands every day. We don't want to buy anything else.\"Most of her friends are in the industry and\u00a0they share information about discounts and sample sales. At her first sale, she blew a third of her salary on Fendi sunglasses. \"It is like a fever,\" she says. \"The price is so low, you cannot refuse.\"Like many a proud shopper, Emily lists how much she saved rather than how much she spent. She is wearing a half-price Dior watch reduced by 2,900 yuan (\u00a3286). In her 40 sq m flat near Fuxing Park, she has dozens of other bags, accessories and clothes, including an Armani coat for 999 yuan (\u00a398), discounted from 9,900 (\u00a3976). Compared with friends, she says, she is restrained.In the last three years, Emily's monthly salary has increased from 3,000 yuan to just under 20,000, putting her firmly in the middle-class bracket. She eats at restaurants at weekends, has a French boyfriend, plays poker every Thursday. Business and pleasure are mixed. Her favourite after-hours hangout, she says, is the building where she works. \"Bund 18 has the coolest nightclub in Shanghai, so it's probably also the coolest in China.\" We agree to meet there again at midnight.After dark, the Bund's spotlit neoclassical pillars and low-rise architecture are reminiscent of London. On the other side of the Huangpu river, however, the futuristic Pudong skyline rises higher than almost anywhere on Earth, including one of the world's tallest buildings, the 492m bottle opener-shaped Shanghai World Financial Centre. Twenty years ago, most of Pudong was farmland. Today, it pulsates with light and colour.The crowd in the club is made up mostly of expat western men and their Chinese girlfriends. In the cigar lounge, Emily introduces me to a French food and beverage manager, Julian Desmettre, who describes how the nouveau riche from Taiwan, Hong Kong and Singapore have made the city their playground: \"Shanghai is like Paris during la belle \u00e9poque. This is the city of wealth and style, where people must show their money, where they are judged by how they dress, where they look down on those with less than themselves.\"Julian arrived in Shanghai as a student eight years ago with 5,000 yuan in his pocket. Now, he has on his wrist an Omega watch worth six times that amount. \"My life here is better than in France. I have a big apartment, a cleaner, a compound with a pool and a gym. It is so comfortable, it is almost too much.\"Most revellers in the lounge are European. \"Where can I meet Chinese partygoers?\" I\u00a0ask Emily, but she is reluctant to recommend anywhere: \"There are clubs, but they are the type of place you'd find in a second-tier city. The music and decor are not as good, but Chinese men prefer them because they don't want to be near foreigners. Chinese women are different. They are\u00a0more open. They go where the quality is.\"Wandering around local bars and restaurants, I\u00a0meet bar owners who organise prostitutes for customers and set up trips to karaoke parlours, where hostesses strip off to sing. Shanghai seems to be emulating the consumer sex industry of Tokyo; the hostess bar scene is reminiscent of Japan at the height of its \"bubble economy\".The next day, Emily introduces me to Cindy Tai, the head of a marketing agency and former head of EMI Music in China, who helped organise the first Rolling Stones concert in Shanghai. As a child during the Cultural Revolution, Cindy and her academic parents were sent from Shanghai to a farm on the nearby island of Chongming. \"We had enough to eat, but nothing to spare. We were very happy if we got a little meat on the table once a week. My\u00a0parents suffered. I vowed that one day I\u00a0would buy them whatever they wanted.\"She has achieved that ambition; now, her dream is \"to create an organic farm. I'd like to grow fruit, vegetables and rice, raise pigs and chickens. And to have a helicopter, because the traffic is so bad.\" But like many affluent consumers around the world, Cindy's environmentalism seems selective. She has blueberries delivered from an organic farm, baguettes from a French bakery in Xintiandi and olive oil from Italy. She eats out at least once a day, and at one point she and her French husband had four cars: a BMW, an MG and two Mercs. Now they have two; a sign, she says, of their increasing concern for the planet. Later, however, she reveals that her interest has switched to yachts. One is moored near their second home in Cannes.She may yet get another luxury car. Cindy is a member of the Shanghai Porsche club, mainly to\u00a0keep up with her friends, and has been invited to an awards ceremony hosted by Jaguar. I\u00a0shamelessly ask if I can come along.The venue for the Jaguar Gorgeous Award Party is a renovated mansion off Huaihai Road, a few minutes' walk from the Barbie store. In cocktail dresses and designer suits, guests sip wine in the courtyard, where they are treated to a sales pitch for the new 5-litre XKR: \"It is a wow car!\" gushes a PR lady who introduces herself by her westernised name, Seraph. I am sceptical: \"But you can barely move in Shanghai's traffic. Why would anyone want such a\u00a0huge engine?\"\"Rich people never take the subway,\" Seraph replies. \"Even if the traffic is bad, they need a car. Jaguar is nothing but gorgeous and beautiful.\"In the five years to 2009, sales of luxury cars in China rose five-fold, de luxe villas seven-fold and luxury goods tripled. This was just the start of a spending splurge: the number of wealthy households is forecast to double again by 2015.Earthwatch Institute estimates that if China's 1.3 billion people were to consume at the same rate as Americans, global production of steel, paper and cars would have to double, oil output would need to rise by 20m barrels a day and miners would have to dig an extra 5bn tons of coal. If it followed the US appetite, China would chew its way through 80% of current meat production and two-thirds of the global grain harvest. \"China is telescoping history,\" says Lester Brown, president of Earthwatch. \"It forces us to focus on what happens when huge numbers of low-income people rise rapidly in affluence. Chinese consumption shows the need to reconstruct the world economy.\"Instead of relying on an ever greater consumption of resources to generate growth, Brown says mankind needs to move to a fairer, more sustainable model. Yet the opposite seems to be happening. Global corporations and the communist government are trying to make China the greatest shopper of them all. In Shanghai, that goal is already being realised. By one estimate, the average carbon dioxide emissions of its residents have already overtaken those in Tokyo, New York and London. If there is a glimmer of environmental hope, it is that even in Shanghai people have not yet fully embraced western levels of throwaway consumption. Many still prefer flasks of hot tea to cans of Coke, and in the supermarkets the average basket of goods is smaller than in the west and profit margins are lower. This thrift is not inspired by environmental concerns, but by a\u00a0traditional desire to live within one's means.Even so, the rest of the country has some way to go to catch up with Shanghai, which is what the government wants. This will require a great deal more energy and raw materials. To provide everyone with a Shanghai lifestyle, factories will\u00a0need to churn out an extra 159 million refrigerators, 213 million televisions, 233 million computers, 166 million microwave ovens, 260 million air-conditioners and 187 million cars.The retail market, meanwhile, is becoming less diverse the bigger it grows. Paul French, a Shanghai-based marketing consultant, says the problem is that the shopping malls designed to create the image of a good life do not reflect reality for most people: \"They are building more and more malls filled with luxury brands. Like the power stations in Soviet-era Russia, they are being built not because of demand but because of prestige. Every official in China wants one to show their city is on the international map.\"These emporiums are designed to generate desire, not meet needs. Many are dismissed by locals as gui gouwu zhongxin (ghost malls) because they attract so few customers. Yet in Shanghai they are everywhere. Xujiahui intersection, for example, is ringed by six department stores. Among them is the Orient Shopping Mall, boasting Est\u00e9e Lauder cosmetics, Rolex watches, Cartier pens and Dior lipstick. Passing through the revolving door one weekday morning, I\u00a0see not a single customer. Not even a window shopper.This is an edited extract from When A Billion Chinese Jump by Jonathan Watts, published by Faber in July, at \u00a314.99. To order a copy for \u00a39.99, go to guardianbooks.co.uk or call 0330 333 6846.", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Environment", "Society", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China: The next superconsumer?"},{"date": "2010-06-20T14:12:30Z", "country": "china", "content": "Huge floods in southern China have killed at least 132 people and displaced 800,000, the government said today as the annual storm season picked up ferocity.Local media showed images of people abandoning their homes in rubber dinghies in Nanchang, Jiangxi province, one of the worst-hit areas.Many carried bundles of possessions salvaged from the waters that turned the streets into rivers.More than 10 million people have lost property, been injured or suffered a cut in power or water supplies as a result of the week of torrential rain across Guangdong, Fujian, Guangxi, Jiangxi and Sichuan.Many of these areas have gone from one extreme to another, according to the government. Earlier this year, south-east China endured its worst drought in living memory, but in the past week, some places have been inundated with three times the average rain for this period.With thousands of houses destroyed and businesses and power lines put out of action in Guangdong and Fujian \u2013 the industrial hubs on the coast \u2013 the ministry of water resources estimated the economic damage at 14bn yuan (\u00a3400m).The deaths occurred when people were washed into fast-flowing rivers that burst their banks, or when mudslides buried homes. As well as the confirmed dead, another 86 people were missing.The emergency services have upgraded their threat assessment as the National Meteorological Centre warned of more downpours in the days ahead. \"The scope and intensity of the rain have increased,\" it said on its website. Some areas are forecast to receive 200mm (nearly 8in) of rain.The state council, China's cabinet, has dispatched a team to co-ordinate the relief effort. The People's Liberation Army has joined firefighters and police in a mass evacuation involving boats and helicopters. Transport links have been severed in many areas, due to road damage, flooded railway lines and the danger of travelling in fierce storms. Hundreds of flights have been cancelled. Newspapers have run pictures of elderly people being carried on the backs of their children or grandchildren, wading through the flood waters. Families have taken refuge in public buildings.Food supplies \u2013 already hurt by the earlier drought \u2013 will take a further hit. The government estimates that 500,000 hectares (1.24m acres) of crops have been affected. Farmers have been salvaging what they can.Southern China experiences flooding almost every summer, but the Beijing climate centre says extreme weather events have increased in recent years, with droughts becoming longer and rain falling in more intense and damaging bursts.", "tags": ["China", "Flooding", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Environment", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China devastated by floods"},{"date": "2010-06-05T17:00:43Z", "country": "china", "content": "I am writing from the Shanghai Forum, the annual event dubbed as Asia's version of the World Economic Forum in Davos. A major issue at the forum has been the need to alleviate China's impending labour shortage. The implications for Central America and other developing countries loom large.It might seem inconceivable that a country with more than 1 billion people would have a labour shortage, but it's true. According to reports in the New York Times, the shortage is due to two factors: the increase in the levels of Chinese people going through higher education and getting absorbed into the emerging high technology, high value-added sectors of the economy; and the decrease in China's birth rate since its \"one child\" policy that began in 1977.At the forum, Min Hua, director of the Institute of World Economy at Fudan University unveiled China's solution to the problem: the industrialisation of Chinese agriculture and the creation of scores of new cities to absorb the 800 million farmers who will migrate to those cities. That's right, China plans to move 800 million farmers to existing and newly created cities. If they mechanise the countryside and achieve similar productivity levels to the US, they say, China will only need 100 million people in the rural sector.When the nations of Central America hear about this they will be shaking in their (Chinese) boots. For years these countries have been working to hook their economies to the US market, with a particular emphasis on clothing and apparel exports. Beginning in the 1980s, most Central American nations set up export processing zones that export textiles and clothing to the United States. By 2001, 87% of all El Salvadoran exports to the US were from such zones. For Honduras, 78%, and Guatemala and Nicaragua each export 63% of their exports to the US were from export processing zones.The capstone of such efforts was the Central American Free Trade Agreement between the US, Central American nations (excluding Panama) and the Dominican Republic (Cafta, for short). Cafta, by lowering tariffs and locking in access to the US economy, was supposed to solidify Central America as a clothing hub. Then China crashed the party.In 2001, both China and Central America sold approximately $6.5bn worth of clothing exports to the United States, with each holding approximately 12% of the US market for clothing. In 2004, the year before Cafta went into effect and after China's WTO entry was in full swing, Central American exports to the US reached $7.5bn and China's were still in the same order of magnitude at $10.7bn.Yet since Cafta went into effect, Central American exports of clothing to the US have fallen by 25%. How could this happen? Clothing exports to the US from Central America in 2009 were down from $7.5bn in 2004 to $5.6bn but China's were up to $24.3bn \u2013 a 127% increase for China since 2004. The Central American share of US clothing imports has declined to 8.7%. China now holds 38% of the US import market for clothing. News of a Chinese labour shortage was thus very welcome in Central America. Central American nations, as well as Vietnam, India, Sri Lanka and some others would stand to gain. Hundreds of millions of \"new\" low-skilled workers however, could seal Central America's fate.As Roberto Porzecanski and I argue in our forthcoming book on China and the future of industrial competitiveness in the Americas, these trends are not reason to point fingers at China. Rather than bashing the Chinese, Central Americans, not to mention nations such as Mexico that have chosen a \"low-wage export to the US through free trade agreements\" development strategy, developing nations should look to learn from China. Both China and the Americas have been globalising their economies for 30 years. China has adopted a strategic and gradual approach to globalisation where the government plays a key role, the Americas have practised the Washington Consensus of rapid trade and investment liberalisation and yanking the government from economic affairs. China has turned out to be the best globaliser in the developing world.", "tags": ["International trade", "China", "US economy", "Business", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China crashes Cafta's party | Kevin Gallagher"},{"date": "2010-04-16T06:00:06Z", "country": "china", "content": "What Gordon Brown and Barack Obama wouldn't give to have a piece of the action that China's economy is enjoying: the latest quarterly figures show a spectacular 11.9% expansion in its GDP, retail sales up 17.9% in March from the year before, industrial production expanded by 18% and consumer price inflation running at just 2.4%. Global economic crisis, what global economic crisis?But here's another statistic: China's urban property price index rose by an extraordinary 11.7% in March, its fastest increase in five years. Property investment was up 35% annually, making it easily the biggest contributor to those spectacular economic growth figures. As has been pointed out, this leap comes after concerted efforts by the government to cool down the housing market by restricting lending. It doesn't seem to be working. Talk about a Chinese property bubble will only get more credible \u2013 and China's authorities seem nervous, having just this week announced new measures to curb speculative buying by raising the minimum down-payment for purchases of second homes from 40% to 50%.The fear is that we've seen this movie before and we know how it ends: strong growth, export bonanza, low exchange or interest rates, a property bubble ... what could possibly go wrong? If you think things are different this time, then I have some condos in Florida, a bank in Iceland and a hotel in Dubai that might interest you for investment purposes. Unfortunately, because local and central government in China benefits so directly from property deals, there's a very strong incentive for them to keep the bubble expanding \u2013 which is exactly what has happened.But that's for the longer run. In the short run the international question is: what happens to China's currency against the US dollar? The single biggest issue between China and the US is the rate at which the yuan has been stuck against the dollar since 2008, with Washington lobbying hard for China to let its currency appreciate in value. Economic growth of this magnitude removes any argument China might have had for keeping the yuan weak to avoid the after-effects of the global economic meltdown. And really, there seems little macroeconomic reason to do otherwise: a stronger yuan would help keep domestic inflation and make imports cheaper. In any case, China's authorities can easily let both domestic interest rates and the yuan rise. And in a few month's time they probably will.A weaker dollar may not be the panacea that US politicians think it would be. US exports to China are already pretty healthy. The breathtaking capture of the US manufactured goods sector by China's exporters \u2013 the challenge in any branch of WalMart or Target is to find a non-food item on sale that is not made in China \u2013 means a stronger yuan and weaker dollar equals more expensive imports for US consumers. All those shiny iPads may be designed in California but they are made (or their components are) in China. More seriously, plenty of quotidian consumer staples, such as children's clothes, come from China. America's leaders should be careful what they wish for.", "tags": ["China", "US economy", "International trade", "Currencies", "US foreign policy", "US news", "World news", "Economics", "US economic growth and recession", "Business", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Dim sums for China | Richard Adams"},{"date": "2010-06-25T23:02:32Z", "country": "china", "content": "The resident of 550 Huaihai Road in Shanghai is a rather unusual migrant. Born in Wisconsin on 9\u00a0March 1959, Barbara Millicent Roberts is the world's most famous supermodel. She drives a Corvette convertible, owns a dream home with a pool, parties with jocks and adores shopping. In the US,\u00a0she was a\u00a0prom queen and a role model. In\u00a0China, she is emerging as an ambassador for consumer culture.Better known as Barbie, this 30cm-tall icon was first sold in China in the early 1990s, but it was not until 2009 that she was given her own home in the retail heartland of Shanghai. Mattel,\u00a0the world's biggest toy company, marked her 50th\u00a0birthday by opening the planet's largest Barbie emporium. Covered in pink plastic, the six-storey doll's house on Huaihai Road became an instant landmark. Martial arts star Jet Li and the actor Christy Chung were among the celebrities at its launch. This was more than a party; it was the start of a marketing campaign aimed at prolonging and expanding the lifestyle championed by the toy firm. For the Barbie market to continue to grow for another 50 years, the doll would have to\u00a0make it big in China.When I lunch at Barbie's place, in the fantastically kitsch restaurant with a menu devised by chef David Laris, it doesn't seem to be hugely popular. Along with Barbie\u2122 burgers with Barbie\u2122 pink sauce, Ken burgers, pinktastic pasta, doll-icious desserts and Barbie\u2122 tini cocktails, the restaurant boasts generous promotional offers: those opting for the special meal receive a boxed set of Barbie plates and cutlery to take away.I ask Liu Yunting, who works for an advertising company, what she plans to do with her new tableware. \"I will use it myself,\" she says.Isn't it a little childish? \"Not at all. It is cute. This is much better than the stuff for children. We\u00a0know better how to appreciate it.\"Liu is a member of the fastest-growing consumer class: single women \u2013 or xiaobailing (white-collar princesses). They have high levels of disposable income and a craving for designer labels. For marketing moguls, they are the future face of consumer power. State\u00a0planners forecast that half the population will be middle class by 2020.Until recently, China was living within the planet's means. If everyone in the world consumed what the average Mr or Mrs Wang did in 2007, we'd just about stay within the sustainable resources of our planet. Humanity would have a balanced ecological budget. But, understandably, Mr and Mrs Wang wanted to keep up with Mr and Mrs Jones on the other side of the Pacific. That was human nature. It was also bad news for the environment, because if we all ate, shopped and travelled like those average Americans, we'd need 4.5 Earths.In recent years, the planet's largest corporations have become dependent on the Wangs catching up with the Joneses. The US had shopped until its economy dropped. Sinking in debt, plagued by obesity and increasingly dependent on military might to protect its lifestyle, the world's superconsumer was groaning with indigestion. Europe was too decrepit and conservative to take up the slack, so global manufacturers, retailers and restaurant chains were desperate to stimulate the Chinese appetite. Shanghai was their beachhead. While information firms and political lobbyists headed to Beijing and manufacturers flocked to Guangzhou, retail giants almost invariably chose Shanghai for their China headquarters and their first showrooms. From Kentucky Fried Chicken, McDonald's and Starbucks to Louis Vuitton, Gucci and Chanel, international brands made the city a giant shopping mall. Shanghai became the biggest, richest, most globalised mass of modernity in China, home to the most luxurious boutiques, the tallest buildings, the nation's first formula one track, the biggest auto companies, the second busiest port in the world and a gathering horde of international salesmen trying to sell the American consumer lifestyle.Chinese consumers have never had more options. America's Wal-Mart, France's Carrefour, Britain's Tesco and Japan's Ito Yokado are expanding in China faster than in any other country. Each year, they open hundreds of new stores in the expectation that demand will surge as more rural migrants move into cities and work their way into the middle class. Young urbanites are becoming as enthusiastic about french fries, burgers and fried chicken as their counterparts in New York or London. When the first KFC opened near Tiananmen Square in 1987, it was seen as a novel western dining experience; 20 years later, the company has 2,000 outlets in 400 cities, employing 200,000 people, making it easily the biggest restaurant chain in China. In roughly the same period, McDonald's had grown from one restaurant to 800.Along with the changing diet came a surge in obesity, diabetes and heart disease. Obese children used to be rare in China; now nearly 15% of the population is overweight. Shanghai is often cited as the worst affected city. Barbie\u2122 burgers and the like are part of an increasingly carnivorous diet. To\u00a0feed its growing livestock, China imports huge quantities of soya, much of it from Brazil, which has resulted in accelerated clearance of Amazonian forest and Cerrado savanna. Like many other wealthy cities, the high-protein, high-octane, jet-set lifestyle is being paid for elsewhere.I meet my guide, Emily Zhang Huijia, a connoisseur of consumption, outside number 18 the Bund. Once the China HQ of Standard Chartered Bank, the Bund is now a centre for shopping, eating and clubbing. Emily is its PR manager. A fashionista since her teens, she has worked for Gucci, Yves Saint Laurent and Chanel, and says she was brought up on Vogue, Glamour and OK! magazines.By western standards, her childhood was not privileged. In 1985, when she was three, her family got its first colour television. In 1992, around the time the first Barbies went on sale in China, they bought their first air-conditioner; so did everyone in the neighbourhood. The Zhangs had their first fixed phone line installed when Emily was six. By the time she was 16, they were connected to the internet. My family in the UK had a phone three generations before Emily's, but her parents went online four years earlier than mine.By 2006, the average person in Shanghai owned two mobile phones, 1.7 air-conditioners, 1.7 colour television sets, more than one fridge and spent 14,761 yuan a year (around \u00a31,455), some 70% more than the rest of the country. They use almost twice as much toilet paper as the average in developed nations and have a bigger carbon footprint than people in the UK. The city is consuming beyond the planet's means, and its appetite is growing by the day. By the time Emily's generation were earning a salary, they could afford more than the essentials; they could buy style. \"I'm a Shanghai girl,\" she says. \"We don't earn so much, but we see luxury brands every day. We don't want to buy anything else.\"Most of her friends are in the industry and\u00a0they share information about discounts and sample sales. At her first sale, she blew a third of her salary on Fendi sunglasses. \"It is like a fever,\" she says. \"The price is so low, you cannot refuse.\"Like many a proud shopper, Emily lists how much she saved rather than how much she spent. She is wearing a half-price Dior watch reduced by 2,900 yuan (\u00a3286). In her 40 sq m flat near Fuxing Park, she has dozens of other bags, accessories and clothes, including an Armani coat for 999 yuan (\u00a398), discounted from 9,900 (\u00a3976). Compared with friends, she says, she is restrained.In the last three years, Emily's monthly salary has increased from 3,000 yuan to just under 20,000, putting her firmly in the middle-class bracket. She eats at restaurants at weekends, has a French boyfriend, plays poker every Thursday. Business and pleasure are mixed. Her favourite after-hours hangout, she says, is the building where she works. \"Bund 18 has the coolest nightclub in Shanghai, so it's probably also the coolest in China.\" We agree to meet there again at midnight.After dark, the Bund's spotlit neoclassical pillars and low-rise architecture are reminiscent of London. On the other side of the Huangpu river, however, the futuristic Pudong skyline rises higher than almost anywhere on Earth, including one of the world's tallest buildings, the 492m bottle opener-shaped Shanghai World Financial Centre. Twenty years ago, most of Pudong was farmland. Today, it pulsates with light and colour.The crowd in the club is made up mostly of expat western men and their Chinese girlfriends. In the cigar lounge, Emily introduces me to a French food and beverage manager, Julian Desmettre, who describes how the nouveau riche from Taiwan, Hong Kong and Singapore have made the city their playground: \"Shanghai is like Paris during la belle \u00e9poque. This is the city of wealth and style, where people must show their money, where they are judged by how they dress, where they look down on those with less than themselves.\"Julian arrived in Shanghai as a student eight years ago with 5,000 yuan in his pocket. Now, he has on his wrist an Omega watch worth six times that amount. \"My life here is better than in France. I have a big apartment, a cleaner, a compound with a pool and a gym. It is so comfortable, it is almost too much.\"Most revellers in the lounge are European. \"Where can I meet Chinese partygoers?\" I\u00a0ask Emily, but she is reluctant to recommend anywhere: \"There are clubs, but they are the type of place you'd find in a second-tier city. The music and decor are not as good, but Chinese men prefer them because they don't want to be near foreigners. Chinese women are different. They are\u00a0more open. They go where the quality is.\"Wandering around local bars and restaurants, I\u00a0meet bar owners who organise prostitutes for customers and set up trips to karaoke parlours, where hostesses strip off to sing. Shanghai seems to be emulating the consumer sex industry of Tokyo; the hostess bar scene is reminiscent of Japan at the height of its \"bubble economy\".The next day, Emily introduces me to Cindy Tai, the head of a marketing agency and former head of EMI Music in China, who helped organise the first Rolling Stones concert in Shanghai. As a child during the Cultural Revolution, Cindy and her academic parents were sent from Shanghai to a farm on the nearby island of Chongming. \"We had enough to eat, but nothing to spare. We were very happy if we got a little meat on the table once a week. My\u00a0parents suffered. I vowed that one day I\u00a0would buy them whatever they wanted.\"She has achieved that ambition; now, her dream is \"to create an organic farm. I'd like to grow fruit, vegetables and rice, raise pigs and chickens. And to have a helicopter, because the traffic is so bad.\" But like many affluent consumers around the world, Cindy's environmentalism seems selective. She has blueberries delivered from an organic farm, baguettes from a French bakery in Xintiandi and olive oil from Italy. She eats out at least once a day, and at one point she and her French husband had four cars: a BMW, an MG and two Mercs. Now they have two; a sign, she says, of their increasing concern for the planet. Later, however, she reveals that her interest has switched to yachts. One is moored near their second home in Cannes.She may yet get another luxury car. Cindy is a member of the Shanghai Porsche club, mainly to\u00a0keep up with her friends, and has been invited to an awards ceremony hosted by Jaguar. I\u00a0shamelessly ask if I can come along.The venue for the Jaguar Gorgeous Award Party is a renovated mansion off Huaihai Road, a few minutes' walk from the Barbie store. In cocktail dresses and designer suits, guests sip wine in the courtyard, where they are treated to a sales pitch for the new 5-litre XKR: \"It is a wow car!\" gushes a PR lady who introduces herself by her westernised name, Seraph. I am sceptical: \"But you can barely move in Shanghai's traffic. Why would anyone want such a\u00a0huge engine?\"\"Rich people never take the subway,\" Seraph replies. \"Even if the traffic is bad, they need a car. Jaguar is nothing but gorgeous and beautiful.\"In the five years to 2009, sales of luxury cars in China rose five-fold, de luxe villas seven-fold and luxury goods tripled. This was just the start of a spending splurge: the number of wealthy households is forecast to double again by 2015.Earthwatch Institute estimates that if China's 1.3 billion people were to consume at the same rate as Americans, global production of steel, paper and cars would have to double, oil output would need to rise by 20m barrels a day and miners would have to dig an extra 5bn tons of coal. If it followed the US appetite, China would chew its way through 80% of current meat production and two-thirds of the global grain harvest. \"China is telescoping history,\" says Lester Brown, president of Earthwatch. \"It forces us to focus on what happens when huge numbers of low-income people rise rapidly in affluence. Chinese consumption shows the need to reconstruct the world economy.\"Instead of relying on an ever greater consumption of resources to generate growth, Brown says mankind needs to move to a fairer, more sustainable model. Yet the opposite seems to be happening. Global corporations and the communist government are trying to make China the greatest shopper of them all. In Shanghai, that goal is already being realised. By one estimate, the average carbon dioxide emissions of its residents have already overtaken those in Tokyo, New York and London. If there is a glimmer of environmental hope, it is that even in Shanghai people have not yet fully embraced western levels of throwaway consumption. Many still prefer flasks of hot tea to cans of Coke, and in the supermarkets the average basket of goods is smaller than in the west and profit margins are lower. This thrift is not inspired by environmental concerns, but by a\u00a0traditional desire to live within one's means.Even so, the rest of the country has some way to go to catch up with Shanghai, which is what the government wants. This will require a great deal more energy and raw materials. To provide everyone with a Shanghai lifestyle, factories will\u00a0need to churn out an extra 159 million refrigerators, 213 million televisions, 233 million computers, 166 million microwave ovens, 260 million air-conditioners and 187 million cars.The retail market, meanwhile, is becoming less diverse the bigger it grows. Paul French, a Shanghai-based marketing consultant, says the problem is that the shopping malls designed to create the image of a good life do not reflect reality for most people: \"They are building more and more malls filled with luxury brands. Like the power stations in Soviet-era Russia, they are being built not because of demand but because of prestige. Every official in China wants one to show their city is on the international map.\"These emporiums are designed to generate desire, not meet needs. Many are dismissed by locals as gui gouwu zhongxin (ghost malls) because they attract so few customers. Yet in Shanghai they are everywhere. Xujiahui intersection, for example, is ringed by six department stores. Among them is the Orient Shopping Mall, boasting Est\u00e9e Lauder cosmetics, Rolex watches, Cartier pens and Dior lipstick. Passing through the revolving door one weekday morning, I\u00a0see not a single customer. Not even a window shopper.This is an edited extract from When A Billion Chinese Jump by Jonathan Watts, published by Faber in July, at \u00a314.99. To order a copy for \u00a39.99, go to guardianbooks.co.uk or call 0330 333 6846.", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Environment", "Society", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China: The next superconsumer?"},{"date": "2010-06-20T14:12:30Z", "country": "china", "content": "Huge floods in southern China have killed at least 132 people and displaced 800,000, the government said today as the annual storm season picked up ferocity.Local media showed images of people abandoning their homes in rubber dinghies in Nanchang, Jiangxi province, one of the worst-hit areas.Many carried bundles of possessions salvaged from the waters that turned the streets into rivers.More than 10 million people have lost property, been injured or suffered a cut in power or water supplies as a result of the week of torrential rain across Guangdong, Fujian, Guangxi, Jiangxi and Sichuan.Many of these areas have gone from one extreme to another, according to the government. Earlier this year, south-east China endured its worst drought in living memory, but in the past week, some places have been inundated with three times the average rain for this period.With thousands of houses destroyed and businesses and power lines put out of action in Guangdong and Fujian \u2013 the industrial hubs on the coast \u2013 the ministry of water resources estimated the economic damage at 14bn yuan (\u00a3400m).The deaths occurred when people were washed into fast-flowing rivers that burst their banks, or when mudslides buried homes. As well as the confirmed dead, another 86 people were missing.The emergency services have upgraded their threat assessment as the National Meteorological Centre warned of more downpours in the days ahead. \"The scope and intensity of the rain have increased,\" it said on its website. Some areas are forecast to receive 200mm (nearly 8in) of rain.The state council, China's cabinet, has dispatched a team to co-ordinate the relief effort. The People's Liberation Army has joined firefighters and police in a mass evacuation involving boats and helicopters. Transport links have been severed in many areas, due to road damage, flooded railway lines and the danger of travelling in fierce storms. Hundreds of flights have been cancelled. Newspapers have run pictures of elderly people being carried on the backs of their children or grandchildren, wading through the flood waters. Families have taken refuge in public buildings.Food supplies \u2013 already hurt by the earlier drought \u2013 will take a further hit. The government estimates that 500,000 hectares (1.24m acres) of crops have been affected. Farmers have been salvaging what they can.Southern China experiences flooding almost every summer, but the Beijing climate centre says extreme weather events have increased in recent years, with droughts becoming longer and rain falling in more intense and damaging bursts.", "tags": ["China", "Flooding", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Environment", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China devastated by floods"},{"date": "2010-06-05T17:00:43Z", "country": "china", "content": "I am writing from the Shanghai Forum, the annual event dubbed as Asia's version of the World Economic Forum in Davos. A major issue at the forum has been the need to alleviate China's impending labour shortage. The implications for Central America and other developing countries loom large.It might seem inconceivable that a country with more than 1 billion people would have a labour shortage, but it's true. According to reports in the New York Times, the shortage is due to two factors: the increase in the levels of Chinese people going through higher education and getting absorbed into the emerging high technology, high value-added sectors of the economy; and the decrease in China's birth rate since its \"one child\" policy that began in 1977.At the forum, Min Hua, director of the Institute of World Economy at Fudan University unveiled China's solution to the problem: the industrialisation of Chinese agriculture and the creation of scores of new cities to absorb the 800 million farmers who will migrate to those cities. That's right, China plans to move 800 million farmers to existing and newly created cities. If they mechanise the countryside and achieve similar productivity levels to the US, they say, China will only need 100 million people in the rural sector.When the nations of Central America hear about this they will be shaking in their (Chinese) boots. For years these countries have been working to hook their economies to the US market, with a particular emphasis on clothing and apparel exports. Beginning in the 1980s, most Central American nations set up export processing zones that export textiles and clothing to the United States. By 2001, 87% of all El Salvadoran exports to the US were from such zones. For Honduras, 78%, and Guatemala and Nicaragua each export 63% of their exports to the US were from export processing zones.The capstone of such efforts was the Central American Free Trade Agreement between the US, Central American nations (excluding Panama) and the Dominican Republic (Cafta, for short). Cafta, by lowering tariffs and locking in access to the US economy, was supposed to solidify Central America as a clothing hub. Then China crashed the party.In 2001, both China and Central America sold approximately $6.5bn worth of clothing exports to the United States, with each holding approximately 12% of the US market for clothing. In 2004, the year before Cafta went into effect and after China's WTO entry was in full swing, Central American exports to the US reached $7.5bn and China's were still in the same order of magnitude at $10.7bn.Yet since Cafta went into effect, Central American exports of clothing to the US have fallen by 25%. How could this happen? Clothing exports to the US from Central America in 2009 were down from $7.5bn in 2004 to $5.6bn but China's were up to $24.3bn \u2013 a 127% increase for China since 2004. The Central American share of US clothing imports has declined to 8.7%. China now holds 38% of the US import market for clothing. News of a Chinese labour shortage was thus very welcome in Central America. Central American nations, as well as Vietnam, India, Sri Lanka and some others would stand to gain. Hundreds of millions of \"new\" low-skilled workers however, could seal Central America's fate.As Roberto Porzecanski and I argue in our forthcoming book on China and the future of industrial competitiveness in the Americas, these trends are not reason to point fingers at China. Rather than bashing the Chinese, Central Americans, not to mention nations such as Mexico that have chosen a \"low-wage export to the US through free trade agreements\" development strategy, developing nations should look to learn from China. Both China and the Americas have been globalising their economies for 30 years. China has adopted a strategic and gradual approach to globalisation where the government plays a key role, the Americas have practised the Washington Consensus of rapid trade and investment liberalisation and yanking the government from economic affairs. China has turned out to be the best globaliser in the developing world.", "tags": ["International trade", "China", "US economy", "Business", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China crashes Cafta's party | Kevin Gallagher"},{"date": "2010-04-16T06:00:06Z", "country": "china", "content": "What Gordon Brown and Barack Obama wouldn't give to have a piece of the action that China's economy is enjoying: the latest quarterly figures show a spectacular 11.9% expansion in its GDP, retail sales up 17.9% in March from the year before, industrial production expanded by 18% and consumer price inflation running at just 2.4%. Global economic crisis, what global economic crisis?But here's another statistic: China's urban property price index rose by an extraordinary 11.7% in March, its fastest increase in five years. Property investment was up 35% annually, making it easily the biggest contributor to those spectacular economic growth figures. As has been pointed out, this leap comes after concerted efforts by the government to cool down the housing market by restricting lending. It doesn't seem to be working. Talk about a Chinese property bubble will only get more credible \u2013 and China's authorities seem nervous, having just this week announced new measures to curb speculative buying by raising the minimum down-payment for purchases of second homes from 40% to 50%.The fear is that we've seen this movie before and we know how it ends: strong growth, export bonanza, low exchange or interest rates, a property bubble ... what could possibly go wrong? If you think things are different this time, then I have some condos in Florida, a bank in Iceland and a hotel in Dubai that might interest you for investment purposes. Unfortunately, because local and central government in China benefits so directly from property deals, there's a very strong incentive for them to keep the bubble expanding \u2013 which is exactly what has happened.But that's for the longer run. In the short run the international question is: what happens to China's currency against the US dollar? The single biggest issue between China and the US is the rate at which the yuan has been stuck against the dollar since 2008, with Washington lobbying hard for China to let its currency appreciate in value. Economic growth of this magnitude removes any argument China might have had for keeping the yuan weak to avoid the after-effects of the global economic meltdown. And really, there seems little macroeconomic reason to do otherwise: a stronger yuan would help keep domestic inflation and make imports cheaper. In any case, China's authorities can easily let both domestic interest rates and the yuan rise. And in a few month's time they probably will.A weaker dollar may not be the panacea that US politicians think it would be. US exports to China are already pretty healthy. The breathtaking capture of the US manufactured goods sector by China's exporters \u2013 the challenge in any branch of WalMart or Target is to find a non-food item on sale that is not made in China \u2013 means a stronger yuan and weaker dollar equals more expensive imports for US consumers. All those shiny iPads may be designed in California but they are made (or their components are) in China. More seriously, plenty of quotidian consumer staples, such as children's clothes, come from China. America's leaders should be careful what they wish for.", "tags": ["China", "US economy", "International trade", "Currencies", "US foreign policy", "US news", "World news", "Economics", "US economic growth and recession", "Business", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Dim sums for China | Richard Adams"},{"date": "2010-06-21T09:19:42Z", "country": "china", "content": "Huge floods in southern China have killed at least 175 people and displaced 800,000, the government said today as the annual storm season picked up ferocity. Around 107 people are still missing amid torrential rains which began a week ago. Local media showed images of people abandoning their homes in rubber dinghies in Nanchang, Jiangxi province, one of the worst-hit areas.Many carried bundles of possessions salvaged from the waters that turned the streets into rivers.More than 10 million people have lost property, been injured or suffered a cut in power or water supplies as a result of the rain across Guangdong, Fujian, Guangxi, Jiangxi and Sichuan.Many of these areas have gone from one extreme to another, according to the government. Earlier this year, south-east China endured its worst drought in living memory, but in the past week, some places have been inundated with three times the average rain for this period.With thousands of houses destroyed, and businesses and power lines put out of action in Guangdong and Fujian \u2013 the industrial hubs on the coast \u2013 the ministry of water resources estimated the economic damage at 14bn yuan (\u00a31.3bn).The deaths occurred when people were washed into fast-flowing rivers that burst their banks, or when mudslides buried homes. As well as the confirmed dead, another 86 people were missing.The emergency services have upgraded their threat assessment as the National Meteorological Centre warned of more downpours in the days ahead. \"The scope and intensity of the rain have increased,\" it said on its website. Some areas are forecast to receive 200mm (nearly 8in) of rain.The state council, China's cabinet, has dispatched a team to co-ordinate the relief effort. The People's Liberation Army has joined firefighters and police in a mass evacuation involving boats and helicopters. Transport links have been severed in many areas, due to road damage, flooded railway lines and the danger of travelling in fierce storms. Hundreds of flights have been cancelled. Newspapers have run pictures of elderly people being carried on the backs of their children or grandchildren, wading through the flood waters. Families have taken refuge in public buildings.Food supplies \u2013 already hurt by the earlier drought \u2013 will take a further hit. The government estimates that 500,000 hectares (1.25m acres) of crops have been affected. Farmers have been salvaging what they can.Southern China experiences flooding almost every summer, but the Beijing climate centre says extreme weather events have increased in recent years, with droughts becoming longer and rain falling in more intense and damaging bursts.", "tags": ["China", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Southern China floods kill scores"},{"date": "2010-08-28T11:00:43Z", "country": "china", "content": "Ever since Deng Xiaoping's relaxation of the Chinese Communist party's (CCP) suppression of religious practice in the late 1970s, Christianity has flourished in China. This has been an unexpected phenomenon, as it has been a story largely unheralded by the western media. While figures are patchy, it is estimated that the Christian missionaries (of whom the first were the Nestorians as far back as the Tang dynasty in the seventh century) that were expelled from the People's Republic of China (PRC) in 1949 left behind about half a million people baptised \u2013 the majority of whom were Catholics. Today, estimates of Christians range between 40 million and 100 million.Mao Zedong's cultural revolution banned all forms of religious expression, driving Christians underground into \"house churches\". After the cultural revolution, realising the potential dangers of such uncontrolled practices, the CCP reinstated the Three-Self Patriotic Movement (TSPM) and formed the China Christian Council as the formal registered organisations of Chinese Protestants, as well as the Catholic equivalent \u2013 the Chinese Patriotic Catholic Association. The latter, critically, has no formal links with the Vatican, in large part due to CCP fears of western meddling.During this period, house churches boomed in popularity. As the New York Times correspondent Nicholas Kristof noted, initially popular among the peasantry, Christianity's reach has extended towards the cities and the wealthy and intellectual Chinese over the last decade.The reasons for this boom are twofold. The first is that the Chinese have found Christianity to be a stabilising belief system amid a dramatically changing socioeconomic landscape, which had its previous religious traditions crushed by Maoism and its values questioned after Tiananmen Square. And, secondly, with its obvious western heritage, the rise of Christianity may be linked to a subconscious attack on the norms and values espoused by the PRC \u2013 rather like South Korea in the 1980s.However what is most surprising is the CCP's recent policy of actively funding and supporting state-sponsored Christian belief in China, as reported by the BBC earlier this week. According to the director general for the state administration for religious affairs, Wang Zuo An, this is due to the CCP's belief \"that it should respect and protect religious belief\".This state-sponsored investment includes building Protestant and Catholic seminaries, funding academic studies into the role of religion in China, and donating land and part-financing the construction of the largest state-sanctioned church in China (for an expected 5,000 worshippers). According to Wang, there are now around 23m official Protestants in China (members of the TSPM), and that \"Christianity is enjoying its best period of growth in China\".Yet this all sits rather uneasily with a state that does not allow Christians to be members of the Communist party and whose police, the Public Security Bureau, still frequently break up house church meetings (though with considerable inconsistency from province to province). According to the US group, China Aid Association, from 2005 to 2006, 1,958 Chinese Christians were arrested by the state.The likelihood is that this policy of \"accommodation\" is a result of the CCP's past experiences with underground religious organisations and its acknowledgement of the potential economic prosperity that Christianity can bring. In the first instance, it would appear that conscious of the disastrously counterproductive suppression of the \"spiritual movement\" Falun Gong in the 1990s, the CCP believes that the threat caused by unregistered house churches is best neutralised by bringing Christianity under the auspices of the state.While the majority of house churches do not appear to have a political agenda (though a small number of revolutionary cults have appeared in rural areas), any violent suppression of Christian groups risks provoking the ire of the west, in particular the US. Second, the recommendations of the prominent Chinese economist, Zhao Xiao, that market economies benefit from active religious groups seem to have been adopted by the CCP leadership. Perhaps eying the benefits that a strong, state-approved Christian voluntary sector could bring to China, in late 2007 President Hu Jintao announced \"the knowledge of religious people must be harnessed to build a prosperous society\".On its current trajectory and with state backing, as the former Time magazine Beijing chief David Aikman notes, within three decades there may be nearly 400 million Christians in China. The future of Christianity may well lie in the east.", "tags": ["China", "Christianity", "Catholicism", "Communism", "Religion", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China: the future of Christianity? | Antonio Weiss"},{"date": "2010-08-28T11:00:43Z", "country": "china", "content": "Ever since Deng Xiaoping's relaxation of the Chinese Communist party's (CCP) suppression of religious practice in the late 1970s, Christianity has flourished in China. This has been an unexpected phenomenon, as it has been a story largely unheralded by the western media. While figures are patchy, it is estimated that the Christian missionaries (of whom the first were the Nestorians as far back as the Tang dynasty in the seventh century) that were expelled from the People's Republic of China (PRC) in 1949 left behind about half a million people baptised \u2013 the majority of whom were Catholics. Today, estimates of Christians range between 40 million and 100 million.Mao Zedong's cultural revolution banned all forms of religious expression, driving Christians underground into \"house churches\". After the cultural revolution, realising the potential dangers of such uncontrolled practices, the CCP reinstated the Three-Self Patriotic Movement (TSPM) and formed the China Christian Council as the formal registered organisations of Chinese Protestants, as well as the Catholic equivalent \u2013 the Chinese Patriotic Catholic Association. The latter, critically, has no formal links with the Vatican, in large part due to CCP fears of western meddling.During this period, house churches boomed in popularity. As the New York Times correspondent Nicholas Kristof noted, initially popular among the peasantry, Christianity's reach has extended towards the cities and the wealthy and intellectual Chinese over the last decade.The reasons for this boom are twofold. The first is that the Chinese have found Christianity to be a stabilising belief system amid a dramatically changing socioeconomic landscape, which had its previous religious traditions crushed by Maoism and its values questioned after Tiananmen Square. And, secondly, with its obvious western heritage, the rise of Christianity may be linked to a subconscious attack on the norms and values espoused by the PRC \u2013 rather like South Korea in the 1980s.However what is most surprising is the CCP's recent policy of actively funding and supporting state-sponsored Christian belief in China, as reported by the BBC earlier this week. According to the director general for the state administration for religious affairs, Wang Zuo An, this is due to the CCP's belief \"that it should respect and protect religious belief\".This state-sponsored investment includes building Protestant and Catholic seminaries, funding academic studies into the role of religion in China, and donating land and part-financing the construction of the largest state-sanctioned church in China (for an expected 5,000 worshippers). According to Wang, there are now around 23m official Protestants in China (members of the TSPM), and that \"Christianity is enjoying its best period of growth in China\".Yet this all sits rather uneasily with a state that does not allow Christians to be members of the Communist party and whose police, the Public Security Bureau, still frequently break up house church meetings (though with considerable inconsistency from province to province). According to the US group, China Aid Association, from 2005 to 2006, 1,958 Chinese Christians were arrested by the state.The likelihood is that this policy of \"accommodation\" is a result of the CCP's past experiences with underground religious organisations and its acknowledgement of the potential economic prosperity that Christianity can bring. In the first instance, it would appear that conscious of the disastrously counterproductive suppression of the \"spiritual movement\" Falun Gong in the 1990s, the CCP believes that the threat caused by unregistered house churches is best neutralised by bringing Christianity under the auspices of the state.While the majority of house churches do not appear to have a political agenda (though a small number of revolutionary cults have appeared in rural areas), any violent suppression of Christian groups risks provoking the ire of the west, in particular the US. Second, the recommendations of the prominent Chinese economist, Zhao Xiao, that market economies benefit from active religious groups seem to have been adopted by the CCP leadership. Perhaps eying the benefits that a strong, state-approved Christian voluntary sector could bring to China, in late 2007 President Hu Jintao announced \"the knowledge of religious people must be harnessed to build a prosperous society\".On its current trajectory and with state backing, as the former Time magazine Beijing chief David Aikman notes, within three decades there may be nearly 400 million Christians in China. The future of Christianity may well lie in the east.", "tags": ["China", "Christianity", "Catholicism", "Communism", "Religion", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China: the future of Christianity? | Antonio Weiss"},{"date": "2010-08-03T15:39:20Z", "country": "china", "content": "China's energy use has more than doubled over the last decade to overtake the United States as the word's biggest user, according to preliminary data from the International Energy Agency.As the data from the IEA shows, China has gone from using 1,107 million tons of oil equivalent (Mtoe) in 2000, to 2,131 Mtoe in 2008 and is estimated to have consumed 2,265 Mtoe in 2009.Meanwhile, US energy consumption was only marginally higher in 2008 (at 2,281 Mtoe) than it was in 2000 (2,270 Mtoe), and will actually be shown to have fallen last year (to 2,169 Mtoe).As Jonathan Watts writes is his news story from Beijing, this is a major turning point. The US has been the world's biggest energy user since records began. The IEA figures also show how individual energy consumption in China is rising fast - from 0.87 tons of oil equivalent (Toe) per person in 2000, to 1.6 Toe estimated in 2009.(Although, this is a doubling from a low base - US per capita consumption was far higher at 7.92 Toe in 2000 and the preliminary IEA data has it at 6.95 Toe last year).Here's how it looks as a graph.\u2022 DATA: download the full total consumption datasheet\u2022 DATA: download the full per capita datasheet\u2022 Search the world's government data with our gatewayFlickr Please post your visualisations and mash-ups on our Flickr group or mail us at datastore@guardian.co.uk\u2022 Get the A-Z of data\u2022 More at the Datastore directory\u2022 Follow us on Twitter", "tags": ["Global economy", "Energy", "Energy industry", "US news", "China", "World news", "Business", "Environment", "Economics", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China v US energy consumption: the data"},{"date": "2010-08-28T11:00:43Z", "country": "china", "content": "Ever since Deng Xiaoping's relaxation of the Chinese Communist party's (CCP) suppression of religious practice in the late 1970s, Christianity has flourished in China. This has been an unexpected phenomenon, as it has been a story largely unheralded by the western media. While figures are patchy, it is estimated that the Christian missionaries (of whom the first were the Nestorians as far back as the Tang dynasty in the seventh century) that were expelled from the People's Republic of China (PRC) in 1949 left behind about half a million people baptised \u2013 the majority of whom were Catholics. Today, estimates of Christians range between 40 million and 100 million.Mao Zedong's cultural revolution banned all forms of religious expression, driving Christians underground into \"house churches\". After the cultural revolution, realising the potential dangers of such uncontrolled practices, the CCP reinstated the Three-Self Patriotic Movement (TSPM) and formed the China Christian Council as the formal registered organisations of Chinese Protestants, as well as the Catholic equivalent \u2013 the Chinese Patriotic Catholic Association. The latter, critically, has no formal links with the Vatican, in large part due to CCP fears of western meddling.During this period, house churches boomed in popularity. As the New York Times correspondent Nicholas Kristof noted, initially popular among the peasantry, Christianity's reach has extended towards the cities and the wealthy and intellectual Chinese over the last decade.The reasons for this boom are twofold. The first is that the Chinese have found Christianity to be a stabilising belief system amid a dramatically changing socioeconomic landscape, which had its previous religious traditions crushed by Maoism and its values questioned after Tiananmen Square. And, secondly, with its obvious western heritage, the rise of Christianity may be linked to a subconscious attack on the norms and values espoused by the PRC \u2013 rather like South Korea in the 1980s.However what is most surprising is the CCP's recent policy of actively funding and supporting state-sponsored Christian belief in China, as reported by the BBC earlier this week. According to the director general for the state administration for religious affairs, Wang Zuo An, this is due to the CCP's belief \"that it should respect and protect religious belief\".This state-sponsored investment includes building Protestant and Catholic seminaries, funding academic studies into the role of religion in China, and donating land and part-financing the construction of the largest state-sanctioned church in China (for an expected 5,000 worshippers). According to Wang, there are now around 23m official Protestants in China (members of the TSPM), and that \"Christianity is enjoying its best period of growth in China\".Yet this all sits rather uneasily with a state that does not allow Christians to be members of the Communist party and whose police, the Public Security Bureau, still frequently break up house church meetings (though with considerable inconsistency from province to province). According to the US group, China Aid Association, from 2005 to 2006, 1,958 Chinese Christians were arrested by the state.The likelihood is that this policy of \"accommodation\" is a result of the CCP's past experiences with underground religious organisations and its acknowledgement of the potential economic prosperity that Christianity can bring. In the first instance, it would appear that conscious of the disastrously counterproductive suppression of the \"spiritual movement\" Falun Gong in the 1990s, the CCP believes that the threat caused by unregistered house churches is best neutralised by bringing Christianity under the auspices of the state.While the majority of house churches do not appear to have a political agenda (though a small number of revolutionary cults have appeared in rural areas), any violent suppression of Christian groups risks provoking the ire of the west, in particular the US. Second, the recommendations of the prominent Chinese economist, Zhao Xiao, that market economies benefit from active religious groups seem to have been adopted by the CCP leadership. Perhaps eying the benefits that a strong, state-approved Christian voluntary sector could bring to China, in late 2007 President Hu Jintao announced \"the knowledge of religious people must be harnessed to build a prosperous society\".On its current trajectory and with state backing, as the former Time magazine Beijing chief David Aikman notes, within three decades there may be nearly 400 million Christians in China. The future of Christianity may well lie in the east.", "tags": ["China", "Christianity", "Catholicism", "Communism", "Religion", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China: the future of Christianity? | Antonio Weiss"},{"date": "2010-08-03T15:39:20Z", "country": "china", "content": "China's energy use has more than doubled over the last decade to overtake the United States as the word's biggest user, according to preliminary data from the International Energy Agency.As the data from the IEA shows, China has gone from using 1,107 million tons of oil equivalent (Mtoe) in 2000, to 2,131 Mtoe in 2008 and is estimated to have consumed 2,265 Mtoe in 2009.Meanwhile, US energy consumption was only marginally higher in 2008 (at 2,281 Mtoe) than it was in 2000 (2,270 Mtoe), and will actually be shown to have fallen last year (to 2,169 Mtoe).As Jonathan Watts writes is his news story from Beijing, this is a major turning point. The US has been the world's biggest energy user since records began. The IEA figures also show how individual energy consumption in China is rising fast - from 0.87 tons of oil equivalent (Toe) per person in 2000, to 1.6 Toe estimated in 2009.(Although, this is a doubling from a low base - US per capita consumption was far higher at 7.92 Toe in 2000 and the preliminary IEA data has it at 6.95 Toe last year).Here's how it looks as a graph.\u2022 DATA: download the full total consumption datasheet\u2022 DATA: download the full per capita datasheet\u2022 Search the world's government data with our gatewayFlickr Please post your visualisations and mash-ups on our Flickr group or mail us at datastore@guardian.co.uk\u2022 Get the A-Z of data\u2022 More at the Datastore directory\u2022 Follow us on Twitter", "tags": ["Global economy", "Energy", "Energy industry", "US news", "China", "World news", "Business", "Environment", "Economics", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China v US energy consumption: the data"},{"date": "2010-09-29T17:14:15Z", "country": "china", "content": "American frustration with Beijing's trade policy boiled over today into a congressional vote that was expected to back a threat of punitive tariffs on Chinese imports to compensate for perceived manipulation of the level of the yuan.Exporters and politicians in the US have become increasingly frustrated with the Chinese government's interventionist tendency to keep its currency artificially weak \u2013 a practice that means exports of Chinese goods are cheap around the world, while imports of foreign goods are expensive to Chinese consumers.In a rare display of cross-party consensus, the US House of Representatives scheduled a swift vote on a bill to authorise the US commerce department to impose duties on Chinese imports to cancel out what some politicians claim is a 40% discount on their price on global markets. America's trade deficit with China is expected to hit $250bn (\u00a3158bn) this year.\"It's time to deliver a strong message to Beijing on behalf of American manufacturing: Congress will do whatever it takes to protect American jobs,\" said Tim Murphy, a Democratic congressman sponsoring the bill. He said the weakness of China's currency had cost 500,000 US jobs.Economists believe that an uneven playing field in trade between the world's two largest economies is slowing America's recovery from recession. Barack Obama this month dispatched his financial guru Larry Summers to Beijing in an effort to secure greater flexibility in the yuan, and the US president raised the issue personally with China's premier, Wen Jiabao, at last week's UN general assembly.The congressional bill is more symbolic than truly practical \u2013 it would face opposition in the Senate and President Obama would be unlikely to sign it. Critics say it could inflame relations with China, which is notoriously prickly about explicit foreign criticism, and that tit-for-tat measures would hurt US companies already operating there.The Chinese government promised a more flexible approach to its currency in June \u2013 but since then, the yuan has risen by only 2%. China argues that it has the right to adopt policies that support its rapid economic growth and help lift its citizens out of poverty.Peter Morici, a former chief economist at the US International Trade Commission, said Chinese imports were reaching the US at less than the cost of the materials in them: \"It's really a beggar-thy-neighbour policy [by China] that victimises trading partners.\"Unions have pressed Obama to take a firmer line with China. Leo Gerard, international president of the USW steelworkers' union, said the weak yuan risked allowing China to dominate the emerging green technology sector.\"The failure to address China's practices means that we will never see the promise of green jobs,\" he said.", "tags": ["International trade", "Currencies", "Economics", "Global economy", "Business", "US news", "World news"], "title": "US politicians threaten trade war with China"},{"date": "2010-08-28T11:00:43Z", "country": "china", "content": "Ever since Deng Xiaoping's relaxation of the Chinese Communist party's (CCP) suppression of religious practice in the late 1970s, Christianity has flourished in China. This has been an unexpected phenomenon, as it has been a story largely unheralded by the western media. While figures are patchy, it is estimated that the Christian missionaries (of whom the first were the Nestorians as far back as the Tang dynasty in the seventh century) that were expelled from the People's Republic of China (PRC) in 1949 left behind about half a million people baptised \u2013 the majority of whom were Catholics. Today, estimates of Christians range between 40 million and 100 million.Mao Zedong's cultural revolution banned all forms of religious expression, driving Christians underground into \"house churches\". After the cultural revolution, realising the potential dangers of such uncontrolled practices, the CCP reinstated the Three-Self Patriotic Movement (TSPM) and formed the China Christian Council as the formal registered organisations of Chinese Protestants, as well as the Catholic equivalent \u2013 the Chinese Patriotic Catholic Association. The latter, critically, has no formal links with the Vatican, in large part due to CCP fears of western meddling.During this period, house churches boomed in popularity. As the New York Times correspondent Nicholas Kristof noted, initially popular among the peasantry, Christianity's reach has extended towards the cities and the wealthy and intellectual Chinese over the last decade.The reasons for this boom are twofold. The first is that the Chinese have found Christianity to be a stabilising belief system amid a dramatically changing socioeconomic landscape, which had its previous religious traditions crushed by Maoism and its values questioned after Tiananmen Square. And, secondly, with its obvious western heritage, the rise of Christianity may be linked to a subconscious attack on the norms and values espoused by the PRC \u2013 rather like South Korea in the 1980s.However what is most surprising is the CCP's recent policy of actively funding and supporting state-sponsored Christian belief in China, as reported by the BBC earlier this week. According to the director general for the state administration for religious affairs, Wang Zuo An, this is due to the CCP's belief \"that it should respect and protect religious belief\".This state-sponsored investment includes building Protestant and Catholic seminaries, funding academic studies into the role of religion in China, and donating land and part-financing the construction of the largest state-sanctioned church in China (for an expected 5,000 worshippers). According to Wang, there are now around 23m official Protestants in China (members of the TSPM), and that \"Christianity is enjoying its best period of growth in China\".Yet this all sits rather uneasily with a state that does not allow Christians to be members of the Communist party and whose police, the Public Security Bureau, still frequently break up house church meetings (though with considerable inconsistency from province to province). According to the US group, China Aid Association, from 2005 to 2006, 1,958 Chinese Christians were arrested by the state.The likelihood is that this policy of \"accommodation\" is a result of the CCP's past experiences with underground religious organisations and its acknowledgement of the potential economic prosperity that Christianity can bring. In the first instance, it would appear that conscious of the disastrously counterproductive suppression of the \"spiritual movement\" Falun Gong in the 1990s, the CCP believes that the threat caused by unregistered house churches is best neutralised by bringing Christianity under the auspices of the state.While the majority of house churches do not appear to have a political agenda (though a small number of revolutionary cults have appeared in rural areas), any violent suppression of Christian groups risks provoking the ire of the west, in particular the US. Second, the recommendations of the prominent Chinese economist, Zhao Xiao, that market economies benefit from active religious groups seem to have been adopted by the CCP leadership. Perhaps eying the benefits that a strong, state-approved Christian voluntary sector could bring to China, in late 2007 President Hu Jintao announced \"the knowledge of religious people must be harnessed to build a prosperous society\".On its current trajectory and with state backing, as the former Time magazine Beijing chief David Aikman notes, within three decades there may be nearly 400 million Christians in China. The future of Christianity may well lie in the east.", "tags": ["China", "Christianity", "Catholicism", "Communism", "Religion", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China: the future of Christianity? | Antonio Weiss"},{"date": "2010-08-03T15:39:20Z", "country": "china", "content": "China's energy use has more than doubled over the last decade to overtake the United States as the word's biggest user, according to preliminary data from the International Energy Agency.As the data from the IEA shows, China has gone from using 1,107 million tons of oil equivalent (Mtoe) in 2000, to 2,131 Mtoe in 2008 and is estimated to have consumed 2,265 Mtoe in 2009.Meanwhile, US energy consumption was only marginally higher in 2008 (at 2,281 Mtoe) than it was in 2000 (2,270 Mtoe), and will actually be shown to have fallen last year (to 2,169 Mtoe).As Jonathan Watts writes is his news story from Beijing, this is a major turning point. The US has been the world's biggest energy user since records began. The IEA figures also show how individual energy consumption in China is rising fast - from 0.87 tons of oil equivalent (Toe) per person in 2000, to 1.6 Toe estimated in 2009.(Although, this is a doubling from a low base - US per capita consumption was far higher at 7.92 Toe in 2000 and the preliminary IEA data has it at 6.95 Toe last year).Here's how it looks as a graph.\u2022 DATA: download the full total consumption datasheet\u2022 DATA: download the full per capita datasheet\u2022 Search the world's government data with our gatewayFlickr Please post your visualisations and mash-ups on our Flickr group or mail us at datastore@guardian.co.uk\u2022 Get the A-Z of data\u2022 More at the Datastore directory\u2022 Follow us on Twitter", "tags": ["Global economy", "Energy", "Energy industry", "US news", "China", "World news", "Business", "Environment", "Economics", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China v US energy consumption: the data"},{"date": "2010-09-29T17:14:15Z", "country": "china", "content": "American frustration with Beijing's trade policy boiled over today into a congressional vote that was expected to back a threat of punitive tariffs on Chinese imports to compensate for perceived manipulation of the level of the yuan.Exporters and politicians in the US have become increasingly frustrated with the Chinese government's interventionist tendency to keep its currency artificially weak \u2013 a practice that means exports of Chinese goods are cheap around the world, while imports of foreign goods are expensive to Chinese consumers.In a rare display of cross-party consensus, the US House of Representatives scheduled a swift vote on a bill to authorise the US commerce department to impose duties on Chinese imports to cancel out what some politicians claim is a 40% discount on their price on global markets. America's trade deficit with China is expected to hit $250bn (\u00a3158bn) this year.\"It's time to deliver a strong message to Beijing on behalf of American manufacturing: Congress will do whatever it takes to protect American jobs,\" said Tim Murphy, a Democratic congressman sponsoring the bill. He said the weakness of China's currency had cost 500,000 US jobs.Economists believe that an uneven playing field in trade between the world's two largest economies is slowing America's recovery from recession. Barack Obama this month dispatched his financial guru Larry Summers to Beijing in an effort to secure greater flexibility in the yuan, and the US president raised the issue personally with China's premier, Wen Jiabao, at last week's UN general assembly.The congressional bill is more symbolic than truly practical \u2013 it would face opposition in the Senate and President Obama would be unlikely to sign it. Critics say it could inflame relations with China, which is notoriously prickly about explicit foreign criticism, and that tit-for-tat measures would hurt US companies already operating there.The Chinese government promised a more flexible approach to its currency in June \u2013 but since then, the yuan has risen by only 2%. China argues that it has the right to adopt policies that support its rapid economic growth and help lift its citizens out of poverty.Peter Morici, a former chief economist at the US International Trade Commission, said Chinese imports were reaching the US at less than the cost of the materials in them: \"It's really a beggar-thy-neighbour policy [by China] that victimises trading partners.\"Unions have pressed Obama to take a firmer line with China. Leo Gerard, international president of the USW steelworkers' union, said the weak yuan risked allowing China to dominate the emerging green technology sector.\"The failure to address China's practices means that we will never see the promise of green jobs,\" he said.", "tags": ["International trade", "Currencies", "Economics", "Global economy", "Business", "US news", "World news"], "title": "US politicians threaten trade war with China"},{"date": "2010-07-09T12:25:57Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has renewed Google's licence to operate in the country, the search giant announced today.Writing on the company blog, chief legal officer David Drummond said: \"We are very pleased that the government has renewed our ICP license and we look forward to continuing to provide web search and local products to our users in China.\"Google \u2013 which has a 30% market share of Chinese search traffic \u2013 recently began directing Google.cn visitors to its uncensored Hong Kong site, saying the new approach ensured it stayed true to a commitment not to censor searches from internet users in China.Relations with authorities in China have been strained since Google said it no longer wanted to cooperate with government internet censorship. The announcement was prompted by cyber attacks the company traced to China.Google stunned markets and consumers in January when it warned it might quit the country, saying it would not provide the censored search results that China requires.However, the Google chief executive, Eric Schmidt, said yesterday the company was confident of being granted an ICP licence extension.Google is due to report its second-quarter financial results next week. Google's search business in China accounts for a tiny slice of the company's \u00a315.82bn in annual revenue. Analysts' estimates of Google's annual revenues in China range from $300m to $600m, but long-term growth prospects are key.There was no immediate word from China's Information Ministry about the renewal.", "tags": ["Google", "Technology", "Internet", "World news", "China", "Business", "Digital media", "Media", "Media business", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China confirms Google licence renewal"},{"date": "2010-08-28T11:00:43Z", "country": "china", "content": "Ever since Deng Xiaoping's relaxation of the Chinese Communist party's (CCP) suppression of religious practice in the late 1970s, Christianity has flourished in China. This has been an unexpected phenomenon, as it has been a story largely unheralded by the western media. While figures are patchy, it is estimated that the Christian missionaries (of whom the first were the Nestorians as far back as the Tang dynasty in the seventh century) that were expelled from the People's Republic of China (PRC) in 1949 left behind about half a million people baptised \u2013 the majority of whom were Catholics. Today, estimates of Christians range between 40 million and 100 million.Mao Zedong's cultural revolution banned all forms of religious expression, driving Christians underground into \"house churches\". After the cultural revolution, realising the potential dangers of such uncontrolled practices, the CCP reinstated the Three-Self Patriotic Movement (TSPM) and formed the China Christian Council as the formal registered organisations of Chinese Protestants, as well as the Catholic equivalent \u2013 the Chinese Patriotic Catholic Association. The latter, critically, has no formal links with the Vatican, in large part due to CCP fears of western meddling.During this period, house churches boomed in popularity. As the New York Times correspondent Nicholas Kristof noted, initially popular among the peasantry, Christianity's reach has extended towards the cities and the wealthy and intellectual Chinese over the last decade.The reasons for this boom are twofold. The first is that the Chinese have found Christianity to be a stabilising belief system amid a dramatically changing socioeconomic landscape, which had its previous religious traditions crushed by Maoism and its values questioned after Tiananmen Square. And, secondly, with its obvious western heritage, the rise of Christianity may be linked to a subconscious attack on the norms and values espoused by the PRC \u2013 rather like South Korea in the 1980s.However what is most surprising is the CCP's recent policy of actively funding and supporting state-sponsored Christian belief in China, as reported by the BBC earlier this week. According to the director general for the state administration for religious affairs, Wang Zuo An, this is due to the CCP's belief \"that it should respect and protect religious belief\".This state-sponsored investment includes building Protestant and Catholic seminaries, funding academic studies into the role of religion in China, and donating land and part-financing the construction of the largest state-sanctioned church in China (for an expected 5,000 worshippers). According to Wang, there are now around 23m official Protestants in China (members of the TSPM), and that \"Christianity is enjoying its best period of growth in China\".Yet this all sits rather uneasily with a state that does not allow Christians to be members of the Communist party and whose police, the Public Security Bureau, still frequently break up house church meetings (though with considerable inconsistency from province to province). According to the US group, China Aid Association, from 2005 to 2006, 1,958 Chinese Christians were arrested by the state.The likelihood is that this policy of \"accommodation\" is a result of the CCP's past experiences with underground religious organisations and its acknowledgement of the potential economic prosperity that Christianity can bring. In the first instance, it would appear that conscious of the disastrously counterproductive suppression of the \"spiritual movement\" Falun Gong in the 1990s, the CCP believes that the threat caused by unregistered house churches is best neutralised by bringing Christianity under the auspices of the state.While the majority of house churches do not appear to have a political agenda (though a small number of revolutionary cults have appeared in rural areas), any violent suppression of Christian groups risks provoking the ire of the west, in particular the US. Second, the recommendations of the prominent Chinese economist, Zhao Xiao, that market economies benefit from active religious groups seem to have been adopted by the CCP leadership. Perhaps eying the benefits that a strong, state-approved Christian voluntary sector could bring to China, in late 2007 President Hu Jintao announced \"the knowledge of religious people must be harnessed to build a prosperous society\".On its current trajectory and with state backing, as the former Time magazine Beijing chief David Aikman notes, within three decades there may be nearly 400 million Christians in China. The future of Christianity may well lie in the east.", "tags": ["China", "Christianity", "Catholicism", "Communism", "Religion", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China: the future of Christianity? | Antonio Weiss"},{"date": "2010-08-03T15:39:20Z", "country": "china", "content": "China's energy use has more than doubled over the last decade to overtake the United States as the word's biggest user, according to preliminary data from the International Energy Agency.As the data from the IEA shows, China has gone from using 1,107 million tons of oil equivalent (Mtoe) in 2000, to 2,131 Mtoe in 2008 and is estimated to have consumed 2,265 Mtoe in 2009.Meanwhile, US energy consumption was only marginally higher in 2008 (at 2,281 Mtoe) than it was in 2000 (2,270 Mtoe), and will actually be shown to have fallen last year (to 2,169 Mtoe).As Jonathan Watts writes is his news story from Beijing, this is a major turning point. The US has been the world's biggest energy user since records began. The IEA figures also show how individual energy consumption in China is rising fast - from 0.87 tons of oil equivalent (Toe) per person in 2000, to 1.6 Toe estimated in 2009.(Although, this is a doubling from a low base - US per capita consumption was far higher at 7.92 Toe in 2000 and the preliminary IEA data has it at 6.95 Toe last year).Here's how it looks as a graph.\u2022 DATA: download the full total consumption datasheet\u2022 DATA: download the full per capita datasheet\u2022 Search the world's government data with our gatewayFlickr Please post your visualisations and mash-ups on our Flickr group or mail us at datastore@guardian.co.uk\u2022 Get the A-Z of data\u2022 More at the Datastore directory\u2022 Follow us on Twitter", "tags": ["Global economy", "Energy", "Energy industry", "US news", "China", "World news", "Business", "Environment", "Economics", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China v US energy consumption: the data"},{"date": "2010-09-29T17:14:15Z", "country": "china", "content": "American frustration with Beijing's trade policy boiled over today into a congressional vote that was expected to back a threat of punitive tariffs on Chinese imports to compensate for perceived manipulation of the level of the yuan.Exporters and politicians in the US have become increasingly frustrated with the Chinese government's interventionist tendency to keep its currency artificially weak \u2013 a practice that means exports of Chinese goods are cheap around the world, while imports of foreign goods are expensive to Chinese consumers.In a rare display of cross-party consensus, the US House of Representatives scheduled a swift vote on a bill to authorise the US commerce department to impose duties on Chinese imports to cancel out what some politicians claim is a 40% discount on their price on global markets. America's trade deficit with China is expected to hit $250bn (\u00a3158bn) this year.\"It's time to deliver a strong message to Beijing on behalf of American manufacturing: Congress will do whatever it takes to protect American jobs,\" said Tim Murphy, a Democratic congressman sponsoring the bill. He said the weakness of China's currency had cost 500,000 US jobs.Economists believe that an uneven playing field in trade between the world's two largest economies is slowing America's recovery from recession. Barack Obama this month dispatched his financial guru Larry Summers to Beijing in an effort to secure greater flexibility in the yuan, and the US president raised the issue personally with China's premier, Wen Jiabao, at last week's UN general assembly.The congressional bill is more symbolic than truly practical \u2013 it would face opposition in the Senate and President Obama would be unlikely to sign it. Critics say it could inflame relations with China, which is notoriously prickly about explicit foreign criticism, and that tit-for-tat measures would hurt US companies already operating there.The Chinese government promised a more flexible approach to its currency in June \u2013 but since then, the yuan has risen by only 2%. China argues that it has the right to adopt policies that support its rapid economic growth and help lift its citizens out of poverty.Peter Morici, a former chief economist at the US International Trade Commission, said Chinese imports were reaching the US at less than the cost of the materials in them: \"It's really a beggar-thy-neighbour policy [by China] that victimises trading partners.\"Unions have pressed Obama to take a firmer line with China. Leo Gerard, international president of the USW steelworkers' union, said the weak yuan risked allowing China to dominate the emerging green technology sector.\"The failure to address China's practices means that we will never see the promise of green jobs,\" he said.", "tags": ["International trade", "Currencies", "Economics", "Global economy", "Business", "US news", "World news"], "title": "US politicians threaten trade war with China"},{"date": "2010-07-09T12:25:57Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has renewed Google's licence to operate in the country, the search giant announced today.Writing on the company blog, chief legal officer David Drummond said: \"We are very pleased that the government has renewed our ICP license and we look forward to continuing to provide web search and local products to our users in China.\"Google \u2013 which has a 30% market share of Chinese search traffic \u2013 recently began directing Google.cn visitors to its uncensored Hong Kong site, saying the new approach ensured it stayed true to a commitment not to censor searches from internet users in China.Relations with authorities in China have been strained since Google said it no longer wanted to cooperate with government internet censorship. The announcement was prompted by cyber attacks the company traced to China.Google stunned markets and consumers in January when it warned it might quit the country, saying it would not provide the censored search results that China requires.However, the Google chief executive, Eric Schmidt, said yesterday the company was confident of being granted an ICP licence extension.Google is due to report its second-quarter financial results next week. Google's search business in China accounts for a tiny slice of the company's \u00a315.82bn in annual revenue. Analysts' estimates of Google's annual revenues in China range from $300m to $600m, but long-term growth prospects are key.There was no immediate word from China's Information Ministry about the renewal.", "tags": ["Google", "Technology", "Internet", "World news", "China", "Business", "Digital media", "Media", "Media business", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China confirms Google licence renewal"},{"date": "2010-09-26T17:57:48Z", "country": "china", "content": "Sainsbury's is looking at plans to open stores in China that could see it go head to head with Tesco in the fastest-growing grocery market in the world.A move into China would mark Sainsbury's first overseas foray since it sold its ill-starred US business, Shaw's, in 2004.Sainsbury's is understood to have sent a team of executives to China to assess whether the supermarket group should open a chain of stores in Beijing and elsewhere in the country.Tesco has already drawn up plans to open 80 giant 37,000 sq metre Lifestyle malls in China.Sainsbury's said the project was more a feasibility study at this stage. A spokesman said no firm decision had been taken about China, but he added: \"We are looking at all the options.\"Sainsbury's announced in June that Darren Shapland, its group development director, would study the possibility of overseas expansion as part of his role.If the supermarket opens stores in China, it will also face competition from French rival Carrefour and Wal-mart. Both groups have spent nearly a decade building Chinese operations.Sainsbury's posted a rise in sales in its last interim update in June, with like-for-like sales excluding petrol increasing by 1.1% in the 12 weeks to 12 June. The supermarket has identified non-food sales and smaller convenience-style stores as key areas of growth. It remains on track to open 135,000 sq metres of new space during the current financial year as competition for shoppers intensifies.Elsewhere in the sector, Waitrose has announced plans to take on rival Tesco by matching its prices on 1,000 branded products. The supermarket said the move, which starts tomorrow, follows strong growth in its own-branded goods, which were launched in March 2009 and now make up 17% of sales.Waitrose said products in the price-match range included food staples such as Heinz baked beans and household basics such as Persil. Analysts said Waitrose's margins would have to take a hit to roll out the plans.Price match items will be monitored twice a week to ensure they are kept in line with the commitment to match prices at Tesco, Waitrose added.The move comes at a competitive time in the food retail sector, with products such as bread and milk being discounted despite rising commodity prices.Tesco, Asda, Sainsbury's and Morrisons cut the price of a sliced white loaf last month to about 30p from 47p, despite wheat being up to 60% more expensive than three months ago.Waitrose posted group sales of \u00a34.5bn in the year to the end of January, a 25% increase over the past two years. The company said some of the improvement was due to the signing of chefs Delia Smith and Heston Blumenthal to promote the supermarket on TV and with recipe cards. The promotion attracted 370,000 new customers in the first eight weeks.Online grocery sales climbed 54% and are likely to grow faster next year when Waitrose competes with home delivery specialist Ocado inside the M25.\u2022 This article was amended on 1 October 2010. The original said that in the 12 weeks to 12 June, Sainsbury's like-for-like sales excluding petrol slipped by 1.1%. This has been corrected. ", "tags": ["J Sainsbury", "Business", "Supermarkets", "Tesco", "Retail industry", "China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Sainsbury's explores prospect of opening stores in China"},{"date": "2010-08-28T11:00:43Z", "country": "china", "content": "Ever since Deng Xiaoping's relaxation of the Chinese Communist party's (CCP) suppression of religious practice in the late 1970s, Christianity has flourished in China. This has been an unexpected phenomenon, as it has been a story largely unheralded by the western media. While figures are patchy, it is estimated that the Christian missionaries (of whom the first were the Nestorians as far back as the Tang dynasty in the seventh century) that were expelled from the People's Republic of China (PRC) in 1949 left behind about half a million people baptised \u2013 the majority of whom were Catholics. Today, estimates of Christians range between 40 million and 100 million.Mao Zedong's cultural revolution banned all forms of religious expression, driving Christians underground into \"house churches\". After the cultural revolution, realising the potential dangers of such uncontrolled practices, the CCP reinstated the Three-Self Patriotic Movement (TSPM) and formed the China Christian Council as the formal registered organisations of Chinese Protestants, as well as the Catholic equivalent \u2013 the Chinese Patriotic Catholic Association. The latter, critically, has no formal links with the Vatican, in large part due to CCP fears of western meddling.During this period, house churches boomed in popularity. As the New York Times correspondent Nicholas Kristof noted, initially popular among the peasantry, Christianity's reach has extended towards the cities and the wealthy and intellectual Chinese over the last decade.The reasons for this boom are twofold. The first is that the Chinese have found Christianity to be a stabilising belief system amid a dramatically changing socioeconomic landscape, which had its previous religious traditions crushed by Maoism and its values questioned after Tiananmen Square. And, secondly, with its obvious western heritage, the rise of Christianity may be linked to a subconscious attack on the norms and values espoused by the PRC \u2013 rather like South Korea in the 1980s.However what is most surprising is the CCP's recent policy of actively funding and supporting state-sponsored Christian belief in China, as reported by the BBC earlier this week. According to the director general for the state administration for religious affairs, Wang Zuo An, this is due to the CCP's belief \"that it should respect and protect religious belief\".This state-sponsored investment includes building Protestant and Catholic seminaries, funding academic studies into the role of religion in China, and donating land and part-financing the construction of the largest state-sanctioned church in China (for an expected 5,000 worshippers). According to Wang, there are now around 23m official Protestants in China (members of the TSPM), and that \"Christianity is enjoying its best period of growth in China\".Yet this all sits rather uneasily with a state that does not allow Christians to be members of the Communist party and whose police, the Public Security Bureau, still frequently break up house church meetings (though with considerable inconsistency from province to province). According to the US group, China Aid Association, from 2005 to 2006, 1,958 Chinese Christians were arrested by the state.The likelihood is that this policy of \"accommodation\" is a result of the CCP's past experiences with underground religious organisations and its acknowledgement of the potential economic prosperity that Christianity can bring. In the first instance, it would appear that conscious of the disastrously counterproductive suppression of the \"spiritual movement\" Falun Gong in the 1990s, the CCP believes that the threat caused by unregistered house churches is best neutralised by bringing Christianity under the auspices of the state.While the majority of house churches do not appear to have a political agenda (though a small number of revolutionary cults have appeared in rural areas), any violent suppression of Christian groups risks provoking the ire of the west, in particular the US. Second, the recommendations of the prominent Chinese economist, Zhao Xiao, that market economies benefit from active religious groups seem to have been adopted by the CCP leadership. Perhaps eying the benefits that a strong, state-approved Christian voluntary sector could bring to China, in late 2007 President Hu Jintao announced \"the knowledge of religious people must be harnessed to build a prosperous society\".On its current trajectory and with state backing, as the former Time magazine Beijing chief David Aikman notes, within three decades there may be nearly 400 million Christians in China. The future of Christianity may well lie in the east.", "tags": ["China", "Christianity", "Catholicism", "Communism", "Religion", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China: the future of Christianity? | Antonio Weiss"},{"date": "2010-08-03T15:39:20Z", "country": "china", "content": "China's energy use has more than doubled over the last decade to overtake the United States as the word's biggest user, according to preliminary data from the International Energy Agency.As the data from the IEA shows, China has gone from using 1,107 million tons of oil equivalent (Mtoe) in 2000, to 2,131 Mtoe in 2008 and is estimated to have consumed 2,265 Mtoe in 2009.Meanwhile, US energy consumption was only marginally higher in 2008 (at 2,281 Mtoe) than it was in 2000 (2,270 Mtoe), and will actually be shown to have fallen last year (to 2,169 Mtoe).As Jonathan Watts writes is his news story from Beijing, this is a major turning point. The US has been the world's biggest energy user since records began. The IEA figures also show how individual energy consumption in China is rising fast - from 0.87 tons of oil equivalent (Toe) per person in 2000, to 1.6 Toe estimated in 2009.(Although, this is a doubling from a low base - US per capita consumption was far higher at 7.92 Toe in 2000 and the preliminary IEA data has it at 6.95 Toe last year).Here's how it looks as a graph.\u2022 DATA: download the full total consumption datasheet\u2022 DATA: download the full per capita datasheet\u2022 Search the world's government data with our gatewayFlickr Please post your visualisations and mash-ups on our Flickr group or mail us at datastore@guardian.co.uk\u2022 Get the A-Z of data\u2022 More at the Datastore directory\u2022 Follow us on Twitter", "tags": ["Global economy", "Energy", "Energy industry", "US news", "China", "World news", "Business", "Environment", "Economics", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China v US energy consumption: the data"},{"date": "2010-09-29T17:14:15Z", "country": "china", "content": "American frustration with Beijing's trade policy boiled over today into a congressional vote that was expected to back a threat of punitive tariffs on Chinese imports to compensate for perceived manipulation of the level of the yuan.Exporters and politicians in the US have become increasingly frustrated with the Chinese government's interventionist tendency to keep its currency artificially weak \u2013 a practice that means exports of Chinese goods are cheap around the world, while imports of foreign goods are expensive to Chinese consumers.In a rare display of cross-party consensus, the US House of Representatives scheduled a swift vote on a bill to authorise the US commerce department to impose duties on Chinese imports to cancel out what some politicians claim is a 40% discount on their price on global markets. America's trade deficit with China is expected to hit $250bn (\u00a3158bn) this year.\"It's time to deliver a strong message to Beijing on behalf of American manufacturing: Congress will do whatever it takes to protect American jobs,\" said Tim Murphy, a Democratic congressman sponsoring the bill. He said the weakness of China's currency had cost 500,000 US jobs.Economists believe that an uneven playing field in trade between the world's two largest economies is slowing America's recovery from recession. Barack Obama this month dispatched his financial guru Larry Summers to Beijing in an effort to secure greater flexibility in the yuan, and the US president raised the issue personally with China's premier, Wen Jiabao, at last week's UN general assembly.The congressional bill is more symbolic than truly practical \u2013 it would face opposition in the Senate and President Obama would be unlikely to sign it. Critics say it could inflame relations with China, which is notoriously prickly about explicit foreign criticism, and that tit-for-tat measures would hurt US companies already operating there.The Chinese government promised a more flexible approach to its currency in June \u2013 but since then, the yuan has risen by only 2%. China argues that it has the right to adopt policies that support its rapid economic growth and help lift its citizens out of poverty.Peter Morici, a former chief economist at the US International Trade Commission, said Chinese imports were reaching the US at less than the cost of the materials in them: \"It's really a beggar-thy-neighbour policy [by China] that victimises trading partners.\"Unions have pressed Obama to take a firmer line with China. Leo Gerard, international president of the USW steelworkers' union, said the weak yuan risked allowing China to dominate the emerging green technology sector.\"The failure to address China's practices means that we will never see the promise of green jobs,\" he said.", "tags": ["International trade", "Currencies", "Economics", "Global economy", "Business", "US news", "World news"], "title": "US politicians threaten trade war with China"},{"date": "2010-07-09T12:25:57Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has renewed Google's licence to operate in the country, the search giant announced today.Writing on the company blog, chief legal officer David Drummond said: \"We are very pleased that the government has renewed our ICP license and we look forward to continuing to provide web search and local products to our users in China.\"Google \u2013 which has a 30% market share of Chinese search traffic \u2013 recently began directing Google.cn visitors to its uncensored Hong Kong site, saying the new approach ensured it stayed true to a commitment not to censor searches from internet users in China.Relations with authorities in China have been strained since Google said it no longer wanted to cooperate with government internet censorship. The announcement was prompted by cyber attacks the company traced to China.Google stunned markets and consumers in January when it warned it might quit the country, saying it would not provide the censored search results that China requires.However, the Google chief executive, Eric Schmidt, said yesterday the company was confident of being granted an ICP licence extension.Google is due to report its second-quarter financial results next week. Google's search business in China accounts for a tiny slice of the company's \u00a315.82bn in annual revenue. Analysts' estimates of Google's annual revenues in China range from $300m to $600m, but long-term growth prospects are key.There was no immediate word from China's Information Ministry about the renewal.", "tags": ["Google", "Technology", "Internet", "World news", "China", "Business", "Digital media", "Media", "Media business", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China confirms Google licence renewal"},{"date": "2010-09-26T17:57:48Z", "country": "china", "content": "Sainsbury's is looking at plans to open stores in China that could see it go head to head with Tesco in the fastest-growing grocery market in the world.A move into China would mark Sainsbury's first overseas foray since it sold its ill-starred US business, Shaw's, in 2004.Sainsbury's is understood to have sent a team of executives to China to assess whether the supermarket group should open a chain of stores in Beijing and elsewhere in the country.Tesco has already drawn up plans to open 80 giant 37,000 sq metre Lifestyle malls in China.Sainsbury's said the project was more a feasibility study at this stage. A spokesman said no firm decision had been taken about China, but he added: \"We are looking at all the options.\"Sainsbury's announced in June that Darren Shapland, its group development director, would study the possibility of overseas expansion as part of his role.If the supermarket opens stores in China, it will also face competition from French rival Carrefour and Wal-mart. Both groups have spent nearly a decade building Chinese operations.Sainsbury's posted a rise in sales in its last interim update in June, with like-for-like sales excluding petrol increasing by 1.1% in the 12 weeks to 12 June. The supermarket has identified non-food sales and smaller convenience-style stores as key areas of growth. It remains on track to open 135,000 sq metres of new space during the current financial year as competition for shoppers intensifies.Elsewhere in the sector, Waitrose has announced plans to take on rival Tesco by matching its prices on 1,000 branded products. The supermarket said the move, which starts tomorrow, follows strong growth in its own-branded goods, which were launched in March 2009 and now make up 17% of sales.Waitrose said products in the price-match range included food staples such as Heinz baked beans and household basics such as Persil. Analysts said Waitrose's margins would have to take a hit to roll out the plans.Price match items will be monitored twice a week to ensure they are kept in line with the commitment to match prices at Tesco, Waitrose added.The move comes at a competitive time in the food retail sector, with products such as bread and milk being discounted despite rising commodity prices.Tesco, Asda, Sainsbury's and Morrisons cut the price of a sliced white loaf last month to about 30p from 47p, despite wheat being up to 60% more expensive than three months ago.Waitrose posted group sales of \u00a34.5bn in the year to the end of January, a 25% increase over the past two years. The company said some of the improvement was due to the signing of chefs Delia Smith and Heston Blumenthal to promote the supermarket on TV and with recipe cards. The promotion attracted 370,000 new customers in the first eight weeks.Online grocery sales climbed 54% and are likely to grow faster next year when Waitrose competes with home delivery specialist Ocado inside the M25.\u2022 This article was amended on 1 October 2010. The original said that in the 12 weeks to 12 June, Sainsbury's like-for-like sales excluding petrol slipped by 1.1%. This has been corrected. ", "tags": ["J Sainsbury", "Business", "Supermarkets", "Tesco", "Retail industry", "China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Sainsbury's explores prospect of opening stores in China"},{"date": "2010-07-07T09:20:22Z", "country": "china", "content": "A Polish journalist regarded as an authoritative and experienced writer on Chinese affairs has been refused an entry visa to China.Konrad Godlewski, a freelance commissioned by Gazeta Wyborcza, Poland's largest daily newspaper, was denied entry to the country to cover the China-Europe forum in Chengdu.He was told he had been blacklisted by Chinese authorities in Beijing. No reason was given. \"This is a tragedy for me. My dream was to be a correspondent in China. Now I feel like a fisherman whose boat has been stolen.\"He believes his blacklisting may have been sparked by his acting as a translator for an interview in May between Wang Lixiong, a prominent Chinese writer and critic of China's Tibetan policy, and the Dalai Lama.The rejection of Godlewski's visa application comes three months after another Polish journalist, Maria Kruczkowska, was denied a Chinese visa. She reported on China for 11 years, and had previously visited the country several times without incident.But she was blacklisted for writing a critical article about China and the 2008 Olympic Games.Piotr Stasinski, an International Press Institute board member and Gazeta Wyborcza's deputy editor-in-chief, said: \"It's deeply surprising that the Chinese authorities - though they seemingly wish to broaden good relationships with the outside world, and with the European Union in particular... deny visas to journalists from Poland, an EU member.\"IPI's press freedom manager Anthony Mills said: \"We expect China to abide by universal press freedom values. This includes allowing foreign journalists to cover developments inside China, just as Chinese journalists should be allowed to cover events elsewhere in the world.\"Sources: IPI/SEEMO", "tags": ["Media", "Press freedom", "China", "Poland", "World news", "Europe", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Roy Greenslade: China denies entry visa to Polish newspaper reporter"},{"date": "2010-08-28T11:00:43Z", "country": "china", "content": "Ever since Deng Xiaoping's relaxation of the Chinese Communist party's (CCP) suppression of religious practice in the late 1970s, Christianity has flourished in China. This has been an unexpected phenomenon, as it has been a story largely unheralded by the western media. While figures are patchy, it is estimated that the Christian missionaries (of whom the first were the Nestorians as far back as the Tang dynasty in the seventh century) that were expelled from the People's Republic of China (PRC) in 1949 left behind about half a million people baptised \u2013 the majority of whom were Catholics. Today, estimates of Christians range between 40 million and 100 million.Mao Zedong's cultural revolution banned all forms of religious expression, driving Christians underground into \"house churches\". After the cultural revolution, realising the potential dangers of such uncontrolled practices, the CCP reinstated the Three-Self Patriotic Movement (TSPM) and formed the China Christian Council as the formal registered organisations of Chinese Protestants, as well as the Catholic equivalent \u2013 the Chinese Patriotic Catholic Association. The latter, critically, has no formal links with the Vatican, in large part due to CCP fears of western meddling.During this period, house churches boomed in popularity. As the New York Times correspondent Nicholas Kristof noted, initially popular among the peasantry, Christianity's reach has extended towards the cities and the wealthy and intellectual Chinese over the last decade.The reasons for this boom are twofold. The first is that the Chinese have found Christianity to be a stabilising belief system amid a dramatically changing socioeconomic landscape, which had its previous religious traditions crushed by Maoism and its values questioned after Tiananmen Square. And, secondly, with its obvious western heritage, the rise of Christianity may be linked to a subconscious attack on the norms and values espoused by the PRC \u2013 rather like South Korea in the 1980s.However what is most surprising is the CCP's recent policy of actively funding and supporting state-sponsored Christian belief in China, as reported by the BBC earlier this week. According to the director general for the state administration for religious affairs, Wang Zuo An, this is due to the CCP's belief \"that it should respect and protect religious belief\".This state-sponsored investment includes building Protestant and Catholic seminaries, funding academic studies into the role of religion in China, and donating land and part-financing the construction of the largest state-sanctioned church in China (for an expected 5,000 worshippers). According to Wang, there are now around 23m official Protestants in China (members of the TSPM), and that \"Christianity is enjoying its best period of growth in China\".Yet this all sits rather uneasily with a state that does not allow Christians to be members of the Communist party and whose police, the Public Security Bureau, still frequently break up house church meetings (though with considerable inconsistency from province to province). According to the US group, China Aid Association, from 2005 to 2006, 1,958 Chinese Christians were arrested by the state.The likelihood is that this policy of \"accommodation\" is a result of the CCP's past experiences with underground religious organisations and its acknowledgement of the potential economic prosperity that Christianity can bring. In the first instance, it would appear that conscious of the disastrously counterproductive suppression of the \"spiritual movement\" Falun Gong in the 1990s, the CCP believes that the threat caused by unregistered house churches is best neutralised by bringing Christianity under the auspices of the state.While the majority of house churches do not appear to have a political agenda (though a small number of revolutionary cults have appeared in rural areas), any violent suppression of Christian groups risks provoking the ire of the west, in particular the US. Second, the recommendations of the prominent Chinese economist, Zhao Xiao, that market economies benefit from active religious groups seem to have been adopted by the CCP leadership. Perhaps eying the benefits that a strong, state-approved Christian voluntary sector could bring to China, in late 2007 President Hu Jintao announced \"the knowledge of religious people must be harnessed to build a prosperous society\".On its current trajectory and with state backing, as the former Time magazine Beijing chief David Aikman notes, within three decades there may be nearly 400 million Christians in China. The future of Christianity may well lie in the east.", "tags": ["China", "Christianity", "Catholicism", "Communism", "Religion", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China: the future of Christianity? | Antonio Weiss"},{"date": "2010-08-03T15:39:20Z", "country": "china", "content": "China's energy use has more than doubled over the last decade to overtake the United States as the word's biggest user, according to preliminary data from the International Energy Agency.As the data from the IEA shows, China has gone from using 1,107 million tons of oil equivalent (Mtoe) in 2000, to 2,131 Mtoe in 2008 and is estimated to have consumed 2,265 Mtoe in 2009.Meanwhile, US energy consumption was only marginally higher in 2008 (at 2,281 Mtoe) than it was in 2000 (2,270 Mtoe), and will actually be shown to have fallen last year (to 2,169 Mtoe).As Jonathan Watts writes is his news story from Beijing, this is a major turning point. The US has been the world's biggest energy user since records began. The IEA figures also show how individual energy consumption in China is rising fast - from 0.87 tons of oil equivalent (Toe) per person in 2000, to 1.6 Toe estimated in 2009.(Although, this is a doubling from a low base - US per capita consumption was far higher at 7.92 Toe in 2000 and the preliminary IEA data has it at 6.95 Toe last year).Here's how it looks as a graph.\u2022 DATA: download the full total consumption datasheet\u2022 DATA: download the full per capita datasheet\u2022 Search the world's government data with our gatewayFlickr Please post your visualisations and mash-ups on our Flickr group or mail us at datastore@guardian.co.uk\u2022 Get the A-Z of data\u2022 More at the Datastore directory\u2022 Follow us on Twitter", "tags": ["Global economy", "Energy", "Energy industry", "US news", "China", "World news", "Business", "Environment", "Economics", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China v US energy consumption: the data"},{"date": "2010-09-29T17:14:15Z", "country": "china", "content": "American frustration with Beijing's trade policy boiled over today into a congressional vote that was expected to back a threat of punitive tariffs on Chinese imports to compensate for perceived manipulation of the level of the yuan.Exporters and politicians in the US have become increasingly frustrated with the Chinese government's interventionist tendency to keep its currency artificially weak \u2013 a practice that means exports of Chinese goods are cheap around the world, while imports of foreign goods are expensive to Chinese consumers.In a rare display of cross-party consensus, the US House of Representatives scheduled a swift vote on a bill to authorise the US commerce department to impose duties on Chinese imports to cancel out what some politicians claim is a 40% discount on their price on global markets. America's trade deficit with China is expected to hit $250bn (\u00a3158bn) this year.\"It's time to deliver a strong message to Beijing on behalf of American manufacturing: Congress will do whatever it takes to protect American jobs,\" said Tim Murphy, a Democratic congressman sponsoring the bill. He said the weakness of China's currency had cost 500,000 US jobs.Economists believe that an uneven playing field in trade between the world's two largest economies is slowing America's recovery from recession. Barack Obama this month dispatched his financial guru Larry Summers to Beijing in an effort to secure greater flexibility in the yuan, and the US president raised the issue personally with China's premier, Wen Jiabao, at last week's UN general assembly.The congressional bill is more symbolic than truly practical \u2013 it would face opposition in the Senate and President Obama would be unlikely to sign it. Critics say it could inflame relations with China, which is notoriously prickly about explicit foreign criticism, and that tit-for-tat measures would hurt US companies already operating there.The Chinese government promised a more flexible approach to its currency in June \u2013 but since then, the yuan has risen by only 2%. China argues that it has the right to adopt policies that support its rapid economic growth and help lift its citizens out of poverty.Peter Morici, a former chief economist at the US International Trade Commission, said Chinese imports were reaching the US at less than the cost of the materials in them: \"It's really a beggar-thy-neighbour policy [by China] that victimises trading partners.\"Unions have pressed Obama to take a firmer line with China. Leo Gerard, international president of the USW steelworkers' union, said the weak yuan risked allowing China to dominate the emerging green technology sector.\"The failure to address China's practices means that we will never see the promise of green jobs,\" he said.", "tags": ["International trade", "Currencies", "Economics", "Global economy", "Business", "US news", "World news"], "title": "US politicians threaten trade war with China"},{"date": "2010-07-09T12:25:57Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has renewed Google's licence to operate in the country, the search giant announced today.Writing on the company blog, chief legal officer David Drummond said: \"We are very pleased that the government has renewed our ICP license and we look forward to continuing to provide web search and local products to our users in China.\"Google \u2013 which has a 30% market share of Chinese search traffic \u2013 recently began directing Google.cn visitors to its uncensored Hong Kong site, saying the new approach ensured it stayed true to a commitment not to censor searches from internet users in China.Relations with authorities in China have been strained since Google said it no longer wanted to cooperate with government internet censorship. The announcement was prompted by cyber attacks the company traced to China.Google stunned markets and consumers in January when it warned it might quit the country, saying it would not provide the censored search results that China requires.However, the Google chief executive, Eric Schmidt, said yesterday the company was confident of being granted an ICP licence extension.Google is due to report its second-quarter financial results next week. Google's search business in China accounts for a tiny slice of the company's \u00a315.82bn in annual revenue. Analysts' estimates of Google's annual revenues in China range from $300m to $600m, but long-term growth prospects are key.There was no immediate word from China's Information Ministry about the renewal.", "tags": ["Google", "Technology", "Internet", "World news", "China", "Business", "Digital media", "Media", "Media business", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China confirms Google licence renewal"},{"date": "2010-09-26T17:57:48Z", "country": "china", "content": "Sainsbury's is looking at plans to open stores in China that could see it go head to head with Tesco in the fastest-growing grocery market in the world.A move into China would mark Sainsbury's first overseas foray since it sold its ill-starred US business, Shaw's, in 2004.Sainsbury's is understood to have sent a team of executives to China to assess whether the supermarket group should open a chain of stores in Beijing and elsewhere in the country.Tesco has already drawn up plans to open 80 giant 37,000 sq metre Lifestyle malls in China.Sainsbury's said the project was more a feasibility study at this stage. A spokesman said no firm decision had been taken about China, but he added: \"We are looking at all the options.\"Sainsbury's announced in June that Darren Shapland, its group development director, would study the possibility of overseas expansion as part of his role.If the supermarket opens stores in China, it will also face competition from French rival Carrefour and Wal-mart. Both groups have spent nearly a decade building Chinese operations.Sainsbury's posted a rise in sales in its last interim update in June, with like-for-like sales excluding petrol increasing by 1.1% in the 12 weeks to 12 June. The supermarket has identified non-food sales and smaller convenience-style stores as key areas of growth. It remains on track to open 135,000 sq metres of new space during the current financial year as competition for shoppers intensifies.Elsewhere in the sector, Waitrose has announced plans to take on rival Tesco by matching its prices on 1,000 branded products. The supermarket said the move, which starts tomorrow, follows strong growth in its own-branded goods, which were launched in March 2009 and now make up 17% of sales.Waitrose said products in the price-match range included food staples such as Heinz baked beans and household basics such as Persil. Analysts said Waitrose's margins would have to take a hit to roll out the plans.Price match items will be monitored twice a week to ensure they are kept in line with the commitment to match prices at Tesco, Waitrose added.The move comes at a competitive time in the food retail sector, with products such as bread and milk being discounted despite rising commodity prices.Tesco, Asda, Sainsbury's and Morrisons cut the price of a sliced white loaf last month to about 30p from 47p, despite wheat being up to 60% more expensive than three months ago.Waitrose posted group sales of \u00a34.5bn in the year to the end of January, a 25% increase over the past two years. The company said some of the improvement was due to the signing of chefs Delia Smith and Heston Blumenthal to promote the supermarket on TV and with recipe cards. The promotion attracted 370,000 new customers in the first eight weeks.Online grocery sales climbed 54% and are likely to grow faster next year when Waitrose competes with home delivery specialist Ocado inside the M25.\u2022 This article was amended on 1 October 2010. The original said that in the 12 weeks to 12 June, Sainsbury's like-for-like sales excluding petrol slipped by 1.1%. This has been corrected. ", "tags": ["J Sainsbury", "Business", "Supermarkets", "Tesco", "Retail industry", "China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Sainsbury's explores prospect of opening stores in China"},{"date": "2010-07-07T09:20:22Z", "country": "china", "content": "A Polish journalist regarded as an authoritative and experienced writer on Chinese affairs has been refused an entry visa to China.Konrad Godlewski, a freelance commissioned by Gazeta Wyborcza, Poland's largest daily newspaper, was denied entry to the country to cover the China-Europe forum in Chengdu.He was told he had been blacklisted by Chinese authorities in Beijing. No reason was given. \"This is a tragedy for me. My dream was to be a correspondent in China. Now I feel like a fisherman whose boat has been stolen.\"He believes his blacklisting may have been sparked by his acting as a translator for an interview in May between Wang Lixiong, a prominent Chinese writer and critic of China's Tibetan policy, and the Dalai Lama.The rejection of Godlewski's visa application comes three months after another Polish journalist, Maria Kruczkowska, was denied a Chinese visa. She reported on China for 11 years, and had previously visited the country several times without incident.But she was blacklisted for writing a critical article about China and the 2008 Olympic Games.Piotr Stasinski, an International Press Institute board member and Gazeta Wyborcza's deputy editor-in-chief, said: \"It's deeply surprising that the Chinese authorities - though they seemingly wish to broaden good relationships with the outside world, and with the European Union in particular... deny visas to journalists from Poland, an EU member.\"IPI's press freedom manager Anthony Mills said: \"We expect China to abide by universal press freedom values. This includes allowing foreign journalists to cover developments inside China, just as Chinese journalists should be allowed to cover events elsewhere in the world.\"Sources: IPI/SEEMO", "tags": ["Media", "Press freedom", "China", "Poland", "World news", "Europe", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Roy Greenslade: China denies entry visa to Polish newspaper reporter"},{"date": "2010-07-02T23:06:04Z", "country": "china", "content": "Seumas Milne is quite correct (These strikes are good for China, 1 July) that China needs to boost consumption and that wage rises are one way of doing this. But the picture is considerably more complex and nuanced than he suggests. The strikes have been solely at companies owned by Japanese and Taiwanese \u2013 no mainland firms have been affected. They have been in a small area of Guangdong. Companies affected will react by increasing productivity through use of new machines that require fewer workers. They will move production from the coast to inland areas where wages are lower \u2013 Foxconn has already announced plans to expand its labour force inland to 300,000.The wage rises announced on 1 July apply only to minimum wages and do not affect higher-paid workers. Up to 50% of the earnings of Chinese industrial workers comes from overtime, which is not affected either. Without effective health, education or pensions systems, precautionary savings will remain high and present a deterrent to consumption spending.Finally, the past 30 years have shown no evidence that rising living standards on the mainland lead to \"progressive democratic change\".It would be nice to think that we are witnessing a decisive shift in the Chinese model but, as with the currency, it would be wiser to be patient if recent history is any guide. Milne refers to Hu Jintao's \"attempt to reduce inequality\", but the share of wages in China's GDP has slumped from 53% of GDP to 40% in the last 10 years, while the Gini coefficient measuring wealth disparities has steadily widened.Jonathan FenbyDirector, China research, Trusted Sources", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Letters: Inequality in China has widened"},{"date": "2010-11-11T12:00:01Z", "country": "china", "content": "It's hard to avoid superlatives when describing China. The country's landmass is enormous, covering roughly 9.6m sq km, with a huge population of some 1.3 billion people. Having recently overtaken Japan as the world's second largest economy, it is well on the way to cementing a dominant position on the global markets. Yet one key fact to understand about China is that these developments are seen as nothing new, but a return to the old order of things. During the Tang dynasty (AD618-907) a census from the year 750 revealed a population of one million within the walls of the capital city, Chang'an, making it the largest city in the world at the time. And it was not just its size that was spectacular. The Chinese capital was probably the most powerful economic centre in the ancient world, attracting traders from the west who travelled along the Silk Road to buy and sell. There were Arabs, Persians and Sogdian traders from Samarkand, whose spiritual needs were served by mosques and Zoroastrian temples in the cosmopolitan city.The Chinese pride themselves on having the longest continuous civilisation in the world, although the massive state we know today took time to develop. From isolated Neolithic settlements scattered across the landmass, the great bronze age cultures of the Shang (c1500\u2013c1050BC) and Zhou (c1050\u2013221BC) developed in the north along the Yellow River. As Zhou polity fell apart, the northern part of China was divided between smaller states, many of which built defensive walls, precursors of the Great Wall. In 221BC, the First Emperor conquered all the other states and established his rule over a unified state stretching from the north of Beijing down to the northern border of the Guangdong province and from the far western Sichuan area to the eastern seaboard. This was most of the China we know today \u2013 in fact the name \"China\" derives from the First Emperor's home state of Qin (pronounced \"Chin\") on the Wei river.The First Emperor quickly established an administration to maintain control of this vast landmass. Armed with legal handbooks, texts inscribed on narrow slips of bamboo, tied together and rolled up like tiny bamboo blinds, his officials established a system of law: they set out official standards for weights and measures that were checked rigorously \u2013 swindling offences were punished with sentences of hard labour on imperial walls and roads \u2013 and they conducted forensic investigations into suspicious deaths. A standardised coinage was also introduced: a new form of a circular coin with a square hole in the middle, which was used for more than 2,000 years until 1911. Even now the shape forms a major decorative emblem in ceramics and textiles.In China, the First Emperor's rule is traditionally remembered as that of an unnecessarily harsh tyrant (contrasting with the \"good guys\" from the Han dynasty). Yet the First Emperor also managed to set up a relatively modern, forward-looking legal system that lasted 2,000 years, whereby trained administrators were sent out all over the country to govern by statute. What was right and what was wrong was now no longer subject to the whim of erratic autocrats, but out there for everyone to see. If you stole a sheep, you knew the consequences. China's legal system was described by Jesuit missionaries in the 18th century and admired by Enlightenment thinkers who saw it as a great improvement on rule by hereditary aristocrats.Furthermore, a legal code was promoted that included a concession about legal responsibility. Unlike in Europe, though, it was not based on a person's age. In China even today, on the doors of buses and beside ticket offices in stations and at tourist sites, there is a metre-high mark, indicating that those under a metre in height can enter or travel for free.Another of the First Emperor's decrees was a standardisation of the Chinese script. Though it had been in use for around two millennia, the script had developed into different local forms during the so-called Spring and Autumn period (770\u2013476BC) and Warring States period (475\u2013221BC). After the rule of the First Emperor, there was some further standardisation during the Han dynasty (206BC\u2013AD220), which created the unifying script that has been used ever since. Though it is clear that the pronunciation of Chinese has changed over the millennia, an educated person can still read Han dynasty texts with a fair amount of ease. The sheer difference of Chinese script from other writing systems \u2013 non-alphabetic, with tens of thousands of separate characters \u2013 is a source of national pride. The status of the art of calligraphy is equal to that of painting and has, at times, been higher. Even Mao Zedong, better known in the west as a communist tyrant bent on destroying traditional Chinese culture, prided himself on the wild, \"grass-style\" calligraphy in which he wrote his poems.With the ancient language came ancient traditions and beliefs. In another pattern established by the First Emperor, it was customary for rulers to travel the country, offering sacrifices on the sacred mountains to appease the gods and please rain-bearing dragons. These tours also enabled the emperors to gain an impression of how well their local officials were administering the country, maintaining the delicate balance between the collection of grain and other goods such as tax, and sustaining the life of the peasants by supplying grain relief in times of shortage and keeping up flood defences along China's turbulent rivers. Though the Ming emperors (AD1368\u20131644) were inclined to stay at home, their successors, the invading Manchus from the north-east who established the Qing dynasty (1644\u20131911), revived the practice with enthusiasm. They particularly favoured southern China with their \"southern tours of inspection\", known as nan xun. The Kangxi emperor (1654\u20131722) and the Qianlong emperor (1711\u20131799) were particularly interested in the south, and in southern food and culture. These northerners from the cold Manchurian plains were particularly impressed by the rich, rice-growing, silk-producing cultural centres of Hangzhou, Suzhou and Wuxi. The Qianlong emperor commissioned a copy of the Jichangyuan (Garden of Ease of Mind) in Wuxi to be constructed in the Summer Palace outside Beijing, where it can still be seen today. Both emperors enjoyed southern food so much they retrained their personal cooks \u2013 southern fruits such as lychees and mangoes were soon shipped up the Grand Canal for the imperial kitchens.A more sinister aspect of the traditional respect for language and script is China's long tradition of censorship. It is said that in 213BC, the First Emperor, enraged by conservative critics, ordered a great bonfire in which ancient Confucian texts were destroyed. In 1772, as part of a massive collection of texts to form a huge imperial encyclopaedia, the Qianlong emperor also instructed his officials to seek out seditious works that criticised Manchu rule in what became known as \"the literary inquisition of Qianlong\". During the Cultural Revolution (1966\u20131976) in a bid to destroy the \"four olds\" \u2013 old customs, culture, habits and ideas \u2013 vast quantities of books, paintings, family photographs and works of art were destroyed in a campaign that was remarkably similar to that of the First Emperor's burning of the books.The technological innovations of China's past not only enabled the construction of massive canal networks for transport and improved agricultural techniques but also helped make possible complex and beautiful art objects. They range from the dramatic bronzes of the Shang and Zhou, through the three-coloured ceramic camels of the Tang and the monochrome elegance of Song porcelains (960\u20131279), to the embroidered robes of the Qing. Museums all over the world display aspects of China's artistic achievements. Many demonstrate the ingenuity of China's craftsmen, often working without external stimuli but making their own discoveries. The massive bronzes of 3,000 years ago are unlike those found anywhere else in the world. They were made not by the lost-wax process but in ceramic moulds \u2013 testimony to the skill of the ceramic workers as well as the bronze founders. Porcelain was made in China and perfected a thousand years before European ceramicists groped their way towards the secret of its manufacture. Silk cultivation and weaving were invented in China many thousands of years ago: cut silk cocoons have been discovered in Neolithic sites and silk fabrics survive from Warring States tombs. Silk is probably China's most magical export: a fine yet strong material that was exported along the Silk Road to Rome in the second century BC. The Romans mistakenly believed that it was combed from trees, so the secret of its origin and production were not known outside China until AD522, when production began in Byzantium. Porcelain began to be exported from China in great quantities in the late Tang dynasty and, as European ships began to arrive, first in south-east Asia and eventually in 17th century China, porcelain became a very popular commodity, with European houses filling up with blue and white dishes and bowls.Technological achievements such as gunpowder and the maritime compass are often cited as some of China's most influential gifts to the world. Yet perhaps the greatest legacy was the invention of paper, an essential prerequisite for printing and mass production. Paper and printing were both invented in China \u2013 archaeologists have found paper remains from the second century BC, though according to the standard history of the Han dynasty, the first official mention of the technology was in AD\u00a0105 when the imperial factories officially reported its production to the emperor. Used to make rubbings of significant stone inscriptions such as the Confucian classics in the second century AD, the mass production of paper must have played a part in the invention of woodblock printing in China in about the sixth century, opening up the possibility of cheap mass communication long before Gutenberg's invention of the printing press in Europe. Like silk, paper was used along the Silk Road from the third century BC and by the 10th century had reached Sicily and Spain through the Arab conquests.Paradoxically, even though Chinese products spread across the world to great acclaim, the country itself was little known outside Asia. The arrival of the western nations, intent on trade, coincided with China's decline in the 19th and 20th centuries, a period that now looks like a very short blip in China's long history of economic and cultural success. The decline was internal, caused by expensive wars waged by the Qing emperors, by population growth and a failure to maintain local order. And it was exacerbated by the impatient pressure of western traders, culminating in the two Opium Wars (1839\u20131842 and 1856).The 20th century saw a disastrous period of division and the cruel Japanese invasion, followed by a civil war, after which Mao Zedong and the Communist Party took power in 1949. Since the death of Mao in 1976, new policies have seen the gradual growth of China to its present economic success.Despite its cultural heritage and the dramatic performance of the national economy, and perhaps partly because of the knocks it took in the Cultural Revolution, China has been slow to recover confidence after 200 years of disaster and disunion. There is a widespread tendency to dwell on the humiliation of the Opium Wars, and to regard any setback as a further humiliation of the same sort. China's failure to secure the 2000 and 2004 Olympic Games still rankles, despite the extraordinary spectacle of the 2008 Beijing Olympics. Even the existence of Chinese porcelain in European museums is sometimes resented and regarded as loot even though the vast majority of the pieces were acquired quite legitimately.As China's economy takes off, perhaps sensitivity to 19th century humiliations can be overcome by pride in the earlier past. Occasionally one gets a glance of the self-belief that China's ancient memory can engender. In the 1980s, I met an old monk on the Buddhist mountain of Jiuhua Shan. \"England...\" he said after I had introduced myself. \"You have a queen, don't you? She must be very old by now\". Only as I started my descent did I realise that he had been thinking of Queen Victoria.Frances Wood is head of the Chinese department at the British Library. Her publications include Did Marco Polo Go To China?, The Silk Road, The First Emperor and The Diamond Sutra", "tags": ["Culture", "China", "Archaeology", "Science", "World news", "Art and design", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "The Ancient World | China"},{"date": "2010-11-11T12:00:01Z", "country": "china", "content": "It's hard to avoid superlatives when describing China. The country's landmass is enormous, covering roughly 9.6m sq km, with a huge population of some 1.3 billion people. Having recently overtaken Japan as the world's second largest economy, it is well on the way to cementing a dominant position on the global markets. Yet one key fact to understand about China is that these developments are seen as nothing new, but a return to the old order of things. During the Tang dynasty (AD618-907) a census from the year 750 revealed a population of one million within the walls of the capital city, Chang'an, making it the largest city in the world at the time. And it was not just its size that was spectacular. The Chinese capital was probably the most powerful economic centre in the ancient world, attracting traders from the west who travelled along the Silk Road to buy and sell. There were Arabs, Persians and Sogdian traders from Samarkand, whose spiritual needs were served by mosques and Zoroastrian temples in the cosmopolitan city.The Chinese pride themselves on having the longest continuous civilisation in the world, although the massive state we know today took time to develop. From isolated Neolithic settlements scattered across the landmass, the great bronze age cultures of the Shang (c1500\u2013c1050BC) and Zhou (c1050\u2013221BC) developed in the north along the Yellow River. As Zhou polity fell apart, the northern part of China was divided between smaller states, many of which built defensive walls, precursors of the Great Wall. In 221BC, the First Emperor conquered all the other states and established his rule over a unified state stretching from the north of Beijing down to the northern border of the Guangdong province and from the far western Sichuan area to the eastern seaboard. This was most of the China we know today \u2013 in fact the name \"China\" derives from the First Emperor's home state of Qin (pronounced \"Chin\") on the Wei river.The First Emperor quickly established an administration to maintain control of this vast landmass. Armed with legal handbooks, texts inscribed on narrow slips of bamboo, tied together and rolled up like tiny bamboo blinds, his officials established a system of law: they set out official standards for weights and measures that were checked rigorously \u2013 swindling offences were punished with sentences of hard labour on imperial walls and roads \u2013 and they conducted forensic investigations into suspicious deaths. A standardised coinage was also introduced: a new form of a circular coin with a square hole in the middle, which was used for more than 2,000 years until 1911. Even now the shape forms a major decorative emblem in ceramics and textiles.In China, the First Emperor's rule is traditionally remembered as that of an unnecessarily harsh tyrant (contrasting with the \"good guys\" from the Han dynasty). Yet the First Emperor also managed to set up a relatively modern, forward-looking legal system that lasted 2,000 years, whereby trained administrators were sent out all over the country to govern by statute. What was right and what was wrong was now no longer subject to the whim of erratic autocrats, but out there for everyone to see. If you stole a sheep, you knew the consequences. China's legal system was described by Jesuit missionaries in the 18th century and admired by Enlightenment thinkers who saw it as a great improvement on rule by hereditary aristocrats.Furthermore, a legal code was promoted that included a concession about legal responsibility. Unlike in Europe, though, it was not based on a person's age. In China even today, on the doors of buses and beside ticket offices in stations and at tourist sites, there is a metre-high mark, indicating that those under a metre in height can enter or travel for free.Another of the First Emperor's decrees was a standardisation of the Chinese script. Though it had been in use for around two millennia, the script had developed into different local forms during the so-called Spring and Autumn period (770\u2013476BC) and Warring States period (475\u2013221BC). After the rule of the First Emperor, there was some further standardisation during the Han dynasty (206BC\u2013AD220), which created the unifying script that has been used ever since. Though it is clear that the pronunciation of Chinese has changed over the millennia, an educated person can still read Han dynasty texts with a fair amount of ease. The sheer difference of Chinese script from other writing systems \u2013 non-alphabetic, with tens of thousands of separate characters \u2013 is a source of national pride. The status of the art of calligraphy is equal to that of painting and has, at times, been higher. Even Mao Zedong, better known in the west as a communist tyrant bent on destroying traditional Chinese culture, prided himself on the wild, \"grass-style\" calligraphy in which he wrote his poems.With the ancient language came ancient traditions and beliefs. In another pattern established by the First Emperor, it was customary for rulers to travel the country, offering sacrifices on the sacred mountains to appease the gods and please rain-bearing dragons. These tours also enabled the emperors to gain an impression of how well their local officials were administering the country, maintaining the delicate balance between the collection of grain and other goods such as tax, and sustaining the life of the peasants by supplying grain relief in times of shortage and keeping up flood defences along China's turbulent rivers. Though the Ming emperors (AD1368\u20131644) were inclined to stay at home, their successors, the invading Manchus from the north-east who established the Qing dynasty (1644\u20131911), revived the practice with enthusiasm. They particularly favoured southern China with their \"southern tours of inspection\", known as nan xun. The Kangxi emperor (1654\u20131722) and the Qianlong emperor (1711\u20131799) were particularly interested in the south, and in southern food and culture. These northerners from the cold Manchurian plains were particularly impressed by the rich, rice-growing, silk-producing cultural centres of Hangzhou, Suzhou and Wuxi. The Qianlong emperor commissioned a copy of the Jichangyuan (Garden of Ease of Mind) in Wuxi to be constructed in the Summer Palace outside Beijing, where it can still be seen today. Both emperors enjoyed southern food so much they retrained their personal cooks \u2013 southern fruits such as lychees and mangoes were soon shipped up the Grand Canal for the imperial kitchens.A more sinister aspect of the traditional respect for language and script is China's long tradition of censorship. It is said that in 213BC, the First Emperor, enraged by conservative critics, ordered a great bonfire in which ancient Confucian texts were destroyed. In 1772, as part of a massive collection of texts to form a huge imperial encyclopaedia, the Qianlong emperor also instructed his officials to seek out seditious works that criticised Manchu rule in what became known as \"the literary inquisition of Qianlong\". During the Cultural Revolution (1966\u20131976) in a bid to destroy the \"four olds\" \u2013 old customs, culture, habits and ideas \u2013 vast quantities of books, paintings, family photographs and works of art were destroyed in a campaign that was remarkably similar to that of the First Emperor's burning of the books.The technological innovations of China's past not only enabled the construction of massive canal networks for transport and improved agricultural techniques but also helped make possible complex and beautiful art objects. They range from the dramatic bronzes of the Shang and Zhou, through the three-coloured ceramic camels of the Tang and the monochrome elegance of Song porcelains (960\u20131279), to the embroidered robes of the Qing. Museums all over the world display aspects of China's artistic achievements. Many demonstrate the ingenuity of China's craftsmen, often working without external stimuli but making their own discoveries. The massive bronzes of 3,000 years ago are unlike those found anywhere else in the world. They were made not by the lost-wax process but in ceramic moulds \u2013 testimony to the skill of the ceramic workers as well as the bronze founders. Porcelain was made in China and perfected a thousand years before European ceramicists groped their way towards the secret of its manufacture. Silk cultivation and weaving were invented in China many thousands of years ago: cut silk cocoons have been discovered in Neolithic sites and silk fabrics survive from Warring States tombs. Silk is probably China's most magical export: a fine yet strong material that was exported along the Silk Road to Rome in the second century BC. The Romans mistakenly believed that it was combed from trees, so the secret of its origin and production were not known outside China until AD522, when production began in Byzantium. Porcelain began to be exported from China in great quantities in the late Tang dynasty and, as European ships began to arrive, first in south-east Asia and eventually in 17th century China, porcelain became a very popular commodity, with European houses filling up with blue and white dishes and bowls.Technological achievements such as gunpowder and the maritime compass are often cited as some of China's most influential gifts to the world. Yet perhaps the greatest legacy was the invention of paper, an essential prerequisite for printing and mass production. Paper and printing were both invented in China \u2013 archaeologists have found paper remains from the second century BC, though according to the standard history of the Han dynasty, the first official mention of the technology was in AD\u00a0105 when the imperial factories officially reported its production to the emperor. Used to make rubbings of significant stone inscriptions such as the Confucian classics in the second century AD, the mass production of paper must have played a part in the invention of woodblock printing in China in about the sixth century, opening up the possibility of cheap mass communication long before Gutenberg's invention of the printing press in Europe. Like silk, paper was used along the Silk Road from the third century BC and by the 10th century had reached Sicily and Spain through the Arab conquests.Paradoxically, even though Chinese products spread across the world to great acclaim, the country itself was little known outside Asia. The arrival of the western nations, intent on trade, coincided with China's decline in the 19th and 20th centuries, a period that now looks like a very short blip in China's long history of economic and cultural success. The decline was internal, caused by expensive wars waged by the Qing emperors, by population growth and a failure to maintain local order. And it was exacerbated by the impatient pressure of western traders, culminating in the two Opium Wars (1839\u20131842 and 1856).The 20th century saw a disastrous period of division and the cruel Japanese invasion, followed by a civil war, after which Mao Zedong and the Communist Party took power in 1949. Since the death of Mao in 1976, new policies have seen the gradual growth of China to its present economic success.Despite its cultural heritage and the dramatic performance of the national economy, and perhaps partly because of the knocks it took in the Cultural Revolution, China has been slow to recover confidence after 200 years of disaster and disunion. There is a widespread tendency to dwell on the humiliation of the Opium Wars, and to regard any setback as a further humiliation of the same sort. China's failure to secure the 2000 and 2004 Olympic Games still rankles, despite the extraordinary spectacle of the 2008 Beijing Olympics. Even the existence of Chinese porcelain in European museums is sometimes resented and regarded as loot even though the vast majority of the pieces were acquired quite legitimately.As China's economy takes off, perhaps sensitivity to 19th century humiliations can be overcome by pride in the earlier past. Occasionally one gets a glance of the self-belief that China's ancient memory can engender. In the 1980s, I met an old monk on the Buddhist mountain of Jiuhua Shan. \"England...\" he said after I had introduced myself. \"You have a queen, don't you? She must be very old by now\". Only as I started my descent did I realise that he had been thinking of Queen Victoria.Frances Wood is head of the Chinese department at the British Library. Her publications include Did Marco Polo Go To China?, The Silk Road, The First Emperor and The Diamond Sutra", "tags": ["Culture", "China", "Archaeology", "Science", "World news", "Art and design", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "The Ancient World | China"},{"date": "2010-10-13T12:00:03Z", "country": "china", "content": "Dear members of the standing committee of the National People's Congress:Article 35 of China's constitution as adopted in 1982 clearly states that: \"Citizens of the People's Republic of China enjoy freedom of speech, of the press, of assembly, of association, of procession and of demonstration.\" For 28 years this article has stood unrealised, having been negated by detailed rules and regulations for \"implementation\". This false democracy of formal avowal and concrete denial has become a scandalous mark on the history of world democracy.On 26 February 2003, at a meeting of democratic consultation between the standing committee of the political bureau of the central committee of the Chinese Communist party and democratic parties, not long after President Hu Jintao assumed office, he stated clearly: \"The removal of restrictions on the press, and the opening up of public opinion positions, is a mainstream view and demand held by society; it is natural, and should be resolved through the legislative process. If the Communist party does not reform itself, if it does not transform, it will lose its vitality and move toward natural and inevitable extinction.\"On 3 October, America's Cable News Network (CNN) aired an interview with Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao by anchor Fareed Zakaria. Responding to the journalist's questions, Wen said: \"Freedom of speech is indispensable for any nation; China's constitution endows the people with freedom of speech; the demands of the people for democracy cannot be resisted.\"In accord with China's constitution, and in the spirit of the remarks made by Hu and Wen, we hereupon represent the following concerning the materialisation of the constitutional rights to freedom of speech and of the press.We have for 61 years \"served as master\" in the name of the citizens of the People's Republic of China. But the freedom of speech and of the press we now enjoy is inferior even to that of Hong Kong before its return to Chinese sovereignty, to that entrusted to the residents of a colony.Before the handover, Hong Kong was a British colony, governed by those appointed by the Queen's government. But the freedom of speech and freedom of the press given to residents of Hong Kong by the British authorities there was not empty, appearing only on paper. It was enacted and realised.When our country was founded in 1949, our people cried that they had been liberated, that they were not their own masters. Mao Zedong said that \"from this moment, the people of China have stood\". But even today, 61 years after the founding of our nation, after 30 years of opening and reform, we have not yet attained freedom of speech and freedom of the press to the degree enjoyed by the people of Hong Kong under colonial rule. Even now, many books discussing political and current affairs must be published in Hong Kong. This is not something that dates from the [territory's] return, but is merely an old tactic familiar under colonial rule. The \"master\" status of the people of China's mainland is so inferior. For our nation to advertise itself as having \"socialist democracy\" with Chinese characteristics is such an embarrassment.Not only the average citizen, but even the most senior leaders of the Communist party have no freedom of speech or press. Recently, Li Rui met with the following circumstance. Not long ago, the Collected Works in Memory of Zhou Xiaozhou were published, and it originally included an essay commemorating Zhou that Li had written for the People's Daily in 1981. Zhou's wife phoned Li to explain the situation: \"Beijing has sent out a notice. Li Rui's writings cannot be published.\" What incredible folly it is that an old piece of writing from a party newspaper cannot be included in a volume of collected works! Li said: \"What kind of country is this?! I want to cry it out: the press must be free! Such strangling of the people's freedom of expression is entirely illegal!\"It's not even just high-level leaders \u2013 even the premier of our country does not have freedom of speech or of the press. On 21 August 2010, Wen gave a speech in Shenzhen called, \"Only by pushing ahead with reforms can our nation have bright prospects.\" He said: \"We must not only push economic reforms, but also promote political reforms. Without the protection afforded by political reforms, the gains we have made from economic reforms will be lost, and our goal of modernisation cannot be realised.\" Xinhua news agency's official news release on 21 August, \"Building a beautiful future for the special economic zone\", omitted the content in Wen's speech dealing with political reform.On 22 September, Wen held a dialogue in New York with American Chinese media and media from Hong Kong and Macao, and again emphasised the importance of \"political system reforms\". Wen said: \"Concerning political reforms, I have said previously that if economic reforms are without the protection to be gained by political reforms, then we cannot be entirely successful, and even perhaps the gains of our progress so far will be lost.\" Shortly after, Wen addressed the 65th session of the United Nations general assembly, giving a speech called \"Recognising a true China\", in which he spoke again about political reform. Late on 23 September, these events were reported on China Central Television's Xinwen Lianbo and in an official news release from Xinhua news agency. They reported only Wen's remarks on the circumstances facing overseas Chinese, and on the importance of overseas Chinese media. His mentions of political reform were all removed.For these matters, if we endeavour to find those responsible, we are utterly incapable of putting our finger on a specific person. This is the work of invisible hands. For their own reasons, they violate our constitution, often ordering by telephone that the works of such and such a person cannot be published, or that such and such an event cannot be reported in the media. The officials who make the call do not leave their names, and the secrecy of the agents is protected, but you must heed their phone instructions. These invisible hands are our central propaganda department. Right now the department is placed above the central committee of the Communist party, and above the state council. We would ask, what right does the central propaganda department have to muzzle the speech of the premier? What right does it have to rob the people of our nation of their right to know what the premier has said?Our core demand is that the system of censorship be dismantled in favour of a system of legal responsibility.The rights to freedom of speech and the press guaranteed in article 35 of our constitution are turned into mere adornments for the walls by means of concrete implementation rules such as the \"ordinance on publishing control\". These implementation rules are, broadly speaking, a system of censorship and approvals. There are countless numbers of commandments and taboos restricting freedom of speech and freedom of the press. The creation of a press law and the abolishment of the censorship system has already become an urgent task before us.We recommend that the National People's Congress work immediately toward the creation of a press law, and that the ordinance on publishing control and local restrictions on news and publishing be annulled. Institutionally speaking, the realisation of freedom of speech and freedom of the press as guaranteed in the constitution means making media independent of the party and government organs that presently control them, thereby transforming \"party mouthpieces\" into \"public instruments.\"Therefore, the foundation of the creation of a press law must be the enacting of a system of [post facto] legal responsibility [determined according to fair laws]. We cannot again strengthen the censorship system in the name of \"strengthening the leadership of the party\". The so-called censorship system is the system by which prior to publication one must receive the approval of party organs, allowing for publication only after approval and designating all unapproved published materials as illegal. The so-called system of legal responsibility means that published materials need not pass through approval by party or government organs, but may be published as soon as the editor-in-chief deems fit. If there are unfavourable outcomes or disputes following publication, the government would be able to intervene and determine according to the law whether there are cases of wrongdoing.In countries around the world, the development of rule of law in news and publishing has followed this path, making a transition from systems of censorship to systems of legal responsibility. There is little doubt that systems of legal responsibility mark progress over systems of censorship, and this is greatly in the favour of the development of the humanities and natural sciences, and in promoting social harmony and historical progress. England did away with censorship in 1695. France abolished its censorship system in 1881, and the publication of newspapers and periodicals thereafter required only a simple declaration, which was signed by the representatives of the publication and mailed to the office of the procurator of the republic. Our present system of censorship leaves news and book publishing in our country 315 years behind England and 129 years behind France.1. Abolish sponsoring institutions of [Chinese] media, allowing publishing institutions to operate independently; and truly implement a system in which directors and editors-in-chief are responsible for their publication units.2. Respect journalists and make them strong. Journalists should be the \"uncrowned kings\". The reporting of mass incidents and exposing of official corruption are noble missions on behalf of the people, and this work should be protected and supported. Immediately put a stop to the unconstitutional behaviour of various local governments and police in arresting journalists. Look into the circumstances behind the case of writer Xie Chaoping. Liang Fengmin, the party secretary of Weinan city [involved in the Xie Chaoping case] must face party discipline as a warning to others.3. Abolish restrictions on extra-territorial supervision by public opinion by the media, ensuring the right of journalists to carry out reporting freely throughout the country.4. The internet is an important discussion platform for information in our society and citizens' views. Aside from information that truly concerns our national secrets and speech that violates a citizen's right to privacy, internet regulatory bodies must not arbitrarily delete online posts and online comments. Online spies must be abolished, the \"fifty-cent party\" must be abolished, and restrictions on anti-censorship technologies must be abolished.5. There are no more taboos concerning our party's history. Chinese citizens have a right to know the errors of the ruling party.6. Southern Weekly and Yanhuang Chunqiu should be permitted to restructure as privately operated pilot programmes in the independent media. The privatisation of newspapers and periodicals is the natural direction of political reforms. History teaches us: when rulers and deliberators are highly unified, when the government and the media are both surnamed \"party\", and when the party sings for its own pleasure, it is difficult to connect with the will of the people and attain true leadership. From the time of the great leap forward to the time of the cultural revolution, newspapers, magazines, television and radio in the mainland have never truly reflected the will of the people. Party and government leaders have been insensible to dissenting voices, so they have had difficulty in recognising and correcting wholesale errors. For a ruling party and government to use the tax money of the people to run media that sing their own praises is something not permitted in democratic nations.7. Permit the free circulation within the mainland of books and periodicals from Hong Kong and Macao. Our country has joined the World Trade Organisation, and economically we have already integrated with the world \u2013 attempting to remain closed culturally goes against the course already plotted for opening and reform. Hong Kong and Macao offer advanced culture right at our nation's door, and the books and periodicals of Hong Kong and Macao are welcomed and trusted by the people.8. Transform the functions of various propaganda organs, so that they are transformed from agencies setting down so many \"taboos\" to agencies protecting the accuracy, timeliness and unimpeded flow of information; from agencies that assist corrupt officials in suppressing and controlling stories that reveal the truth to agencies that support the media in monitoring party and government organs; from agencies that close publications, fire editors and arrest journalists to agencies that oppose power and protect media and journalists. Our propaganda organs have a horrid reputation within the party and in society. They must work for good in order to regain their reputations. At the appropriate time, we can consider renaming these propaganda organs to suit global trends.We represent ourselves, hoping for your utmost attention.Signed:Li Rui, former standing vice minister of the organisation department of the CCP central committee, member of the 12th central committee of the CCPHu Jiwei, former director of People's Daily, standing committee member to the 7th National People's Congress, director of the Federation of Chinese Communication InstitutesJiang Ping, former head of the China University of Political Science and Law, tenured professor, standing committee member to the 7th National People's Congress, deputy director of the executive law committee of the NPCLi Pu, former deputy director of Xinhua news agencyZhou Shaoming, former deputy director of the political department of the Guangzhou military area commandZhong Peizhang, former head of the news office of the central propaganda departmentWang Yongcheng, professor at Shanghai Jiaotong UniversityZhang Zhongpei, researcher at the Imperial Palace museum, chairman of the China Archaeological SocietyDu Guang, former professor at the Central Party SchoolGuo Daojun, former editor-in-chief of China Legal ScienceXiao Mo, former head of the Architecture Research Centre of the Chinese National Academy of ArtsZhuang Puming, former deputy director of People's PressHu Fuchen, former director and editor-in-chief at China Worker's Publishing HouseZhang Ding, former director of the China Social Sciences Press at the Chinese Academy of Social SciencesYu You, former editor-in-chief of China DailyOuyang Jin, former editor-in-chief of Hong Kong's Pacific magazineYu Haocheng, former director of Masses Publishing HouseZhang Qing, former director of China Cinema Publishing HouseYu Yueting, former director of Fujian Television, veteran journalistSha Yexin, former head of the Shanghai People's Art and Drama Academy, now an independent writer of the Hui ethnic minoritySun Xupei, former director of the News Research Institute at the Chinese Academy of Social SciencesXin Ziling, former director of the editorial desk at China National Defence UniversityTie Liu, editor-in-chief of Wangshi Weihen magazine (Scars of the Past).Legal Counsel\uff1aSong Yue, Chinese citizen, practicing lawyer in the State of New York, USThis translation was made by the University of Hong Kong's China Media Project and was first posted here.", "tags": ["China", "Freedom of speech", "Censorship", "Civil liberties - international", "Journalist safety", "Communism", "Media", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China must abandon censorship | Open letter"},{"date": "2010-11-11T12:00:01Z", "country": "china", "content": "It's hard to avoid superlatives when describing China. The country's landmass is enormous, covering roughly 9.6m sq km, with a huge population of some 1.3 billion people. Having recently overtaken Japan as the world's second largest economy, it is well on the way to cementing a dominant position on the global markets. Yet one key fact to understand about China is that these developments are seen as nothing new, but a return to the old order of things. During the Tang dynasty (AD618-907) a census from the year 750 revealed a population of one million within the walls of the capital city, Chang'an, making it the largest city in the world at the time. And it was not just its size that was spectacular. The Chinese capital was probably the most powerful economic centre in the ancient world, attracting traders from the west who travelled along the Silk Road to buy and sell. There were Arabs, Persians and Sogdian traders from Samarkand, whose spiritual needs were served by mosques and Zoroastrian temples in the cosmopolitan city.The Chinese pride themselves on having the longest continuous civilisation in the world, although the massive state we know today took time to develop. From isolated Neolithic settlements scattered across the landmass, the great bronze age cultures of the Shang (c1500\u2013c1050BC) and Zhou (c1050\u2013221BC) developed in the north along the Yellow River. As Zhou polity fell apart, the northern part of China was divided between smaller states, many of which built defensive walls, precursors of the Great Wall. In 221BC, the First Emperor conquered all the other states and established his rule over a unified state stretching from the north of Beijing down to the northern border of the Guangdong province and from the far western Sichuan area to the eastern seaboard. This was most of the China we know today \u2013 in fact the name \"China\" derives from the First Emperor's home state of Qin (pronounced \"Chin\") on the Wei river.The First Emperor quickly established an administration to maintain control of this vast landmass. Armed with legal handbooks, texts inscribed on narrow slips of bamboo, tied together and rolled up like tiny bamboo blinds, his officials established a system of law: they set out official standards for weights and measures that were checked rigorously \u2013 swindling offences were punished with sentences of hard labour on imperial walls and roads \u2013 and they conducted forensic investigations into suspicious deaths. A standardised coinage was also introduced: a new form of a circular coin with a square hole in the middle, which was used for more than 2,000 years until 1911. Even now the shape forms a major decorative emblem in ceramics and textiles.In China, the First Emperor's rule is traditionally remembered as that of an unnecessarily harsh tyrant (contrasting with the \"good guys\" from the Han dynasty). Yet the First Emperor also managed to set up a relatively modern, forward-looking legal system that lasted 2,000 years, whereby trained administrators were sent out all over the country to govern by statute. What was right and what was wrong was now no longer subject to the whim of erratic autocrats, but out there for everyone to see. If you stole a sheep, you knew the consequences. China's legal system was described by Jesuit missionaries in the 18th century and admired by Enlightenment thinkers who saw it as a great improvement on rule by hereditary aristocrats.Furthermore, a legal code was promoted that included a concession about legal responsibility. Unlike in Europe, though, it was not based on a person's age. In China even today, on the doors of buses and beside ticket offices in stations and at tourist sites, there is a metre-high mark, indicating that those under a metre in height can enter or travel for free.Another of the First Emperor's decrees was a standardisation of the Chinese script. Though it had been in use for around two millennia, the script had developed into different local forms during the so-called Spring and Autumn period (770\u2013476BC) and Warring States period (475\u2013221BC). After the rule of the First Emperor, there was some further standardisation during the Han dynasty (206BC\u2013AD220), which created the unifying script that has been used ever since. Though it is clear that the pronunciation of Chinese has changed over the millennia, an educated person can still read Han dynasty texts with a fair amount of ease. The sheer difference of Chinese script from other writing systems \u2013 non-alphabetic, with tens of thousands of separate characters \u2013 is a source of national pride. The status of the art of calligraphy is equal to that of painting and has, at times, been higher. Even Mao Zedong, better known in the west as a communist tyrant bent on destroying traditional Chinese culture, prided himself on the wild, \"grass-style\" calligraphy in which he wrote his poems.With the ancient language came ancient traditions and beliefs. In another pattern established by the First Emperor, it was customary for rulers to travel the country, offering sacrifices on the sacred mountains to appease the gods and please rain-bearing dragons. These tours also enabled the emperors to gain an impression of how well their local officials were administering the country, maintaining the delicate balance between the collection of grain and other goods such as tax, and sustaining the life of the peasants by supplying grain relief in times of shortage and keeping up flood defences along China's turbulent rivers. Though the Ming emperors (AD1368\u20131644) were inclined to stay at home, their successors, the invading Manchus from the north-east who established the Qing dynasty (1644\u20131911), revived the practice with enthusiasm. They particularly favoured southern China with their \"southern tours of inspection\", known as nan xun. The Kangxi emperor (1654\u20131722) and the Qianlong emperor (1711\u20131799) were particularly interested in the south, and in southern food and culture. These northerners from the cold Manchurian plains were particularly impressed by the rich, rice-growing, silk-producing cultural centres of Hangzhou, Suzhou and Wuxi. The Qianlong emperor commissioned a copy of the Jichangyuan (Garden of Ease of Mind) in Wuxi to be constructed in the Summer Palace outside Beijing, where it can still be seen today. Both emperors enjoyed southern food so much they retrained their personal cooks \u2013 southern fruits such as lychees and mangoes were soon shipped up the Grand Canal for the imperial kitchens.A more sinister aspect of the traditional respect for language and script is China's long tradition of censorship. It is said that in 213BC, the First Emperor, enraged by conservative critics, ordered a great bonfire in which ancient Confucian texts were destroyed. In 1772, as part of a massive collection of texts to form a huge imperial encyclopaedia, the Qianlong emperor also instructed his officials to seek out seditious works that criticised Manchu rule in what became known as \"the literary inquisition of Qianlong\". During the Cultural Revolution (1966\u20131976) in a bid to destroy the \"four olds\" \u2013 old customs, culture, habits and ideas \u2013 vast quantities of books, paintings, family photographs and works of art were destroyed in a campaign that was remarkably similar to that of the First Emperor's burning of the books.The technological innovations of China's past not only enabled the construction of massive canal networks for transport and improved agricultural techniques but also helped make possible complex and beautiful art objects. They range from the dramatic bronzes of the Shang and Zhou, through the three-coloured ceramic camels of the Tang and the monochrome elegance of Song porcelains (960\u20131279), to the embroidered robes of the Qing. Museums all over the world display aspects of China's artistic achievements. Many demonstrate the ingenuity of China's craftsmen, often working without external stimuli but making their own discoveries. The massive bronzes of 3,000 years ago are unlike those found anywhere else in the world. They were made not by the lost-wax process but in ceramic moulds \u2013 testimony to the skill of the ceramic workers as well as the bronze founders. Porcelain was made in China and perfected a thousand years before European ceramicists groped their way towards the secret of its manufacture. Silk cultivation and weaving were invented in China many thousands of years ago: cut silk cocoons have been discovered in Neolithic sites and silk fabrics survive from Warring States tombs. Silk is probably China's most magical export: a fine yet strong material that was exported along the Silk Road to Rome in the second century BC. The Romans mistakenly believed that it was combed from trees, so the secret of its origin and production were not known outside China until AD522, when production began in Byzantium. Porcelain began to be exported from China in great quantities in the late Tang dynasty and, as European ships began to arrive, first in south-east Asia and eventually in 17th century China, porcelain became a very popular commodity, with European houses filling up with blue and white dishes and bowls.Technological achievements such as gunpowder and the maritime compass are often cited as some of China's most influential gifts to the world. Yet perhaps the greatest legacy was the invention of paper, an essential prerequisite for printing and mass production. Paper and printing were both invented in China \u2013 archaeologists have found paper remains from the second century BC, though according to the standard history of the Han dynasty, the first official mention of the technology was in AD\u00a0105 when the imperial factories officially reported its production to the emperor. Used to make rubbings of significant stone inscriptions such as the Confucian classics in the second century AD, the mass production of paper must have played a part in the invention of woodblock printing in China in about the sixth century, opening up the possibility of cheap mass communication long before Gutenberg's invention of the printing press in Europe. Like silk, paper was used along the Silk Road from the third century BC and by the 10th century had reached Sicily and Spain through the Arab conquests.Paradoxically, even though Chinese products spread across the world to great acclaim, the country itself was little known outside Asia. The arrival of the western nations, intent on trade, coincided with China's decline in the 19th and 20th centuries, a period that now looks like a very short blip in China's long history of economic and cultural success. The decline was internal, caused by expensive wars waged by the Qing emperors, by population growth and a failure to maintain local order. And it was exacerbated by the impatient pressure of western traders, culminating in the two Opium Wars (1839\u20131842 and 1856).The 20th century saw a disastrous period of division and the cruel Japanese invasion, followed by a civil war, after which Mao Zedong and the Communist Party took power in 1949. Since the death of Mao in 1976, new policies have seen the gradual growth of China to its present economic success.Despite its cultural heritage and the dramatic performance of the national economy, and perhaps partly because of the knocks it took in the Cultural Revolution, China has been slow to recover confidence after 200 years of disaster and disunion. There is a widespread tendency to dwell on the humiliation of the Opium Wars, and to regard any setback as a further humiliation of the same sort. China's failure to secure the 2000 and 2004 Olympic Games still rankles, despite the extraordinary spectacle of the 2008 Beijing Olympics. Even the existence of Chinese porcelain in European museums is sometimes resented and regarded as loot even though the vast majority of the pieces were acquired quite legitimately.As China's economy takes off, perhaps sensitivity to 19th century humiliations can be overcome by pride in the earlier past. Occasionally one gets a glance of the self-belief that China's ancient memory can engender. In the 1980s, I met an old monk on the Buddhist mountain of Jiuhua Shan. \"England...\" he said after I had introduced myself. \"You have a queen, don't you? She must be very old by now\". Only as I started my descent did I realise that he had been thinking of Queen Victoria.Frances Wood is head of the Chinese department at the British Library. Her publications include Did Marco Polo Go To China?, The Silk Road, The First Emperor and The Diamond Sutra", "tags": ["Culture", "China", "Archaeology", "Science", "World news", "Art and design", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "The Ancient World | China"},{"date": "2010-10-13T12:00:03Z", "country": "china", "content": "Dear members of the standing committee of the National People's Congress:Article 35 of China's constitution as adopted in 1982 clearly states that: \"Citizens of the People's Republic of China enjoy freedom of speech, of the press, of assembly, of association, of procession and of demonstration.\" For 28 years this article has stood unrealised, having been negated by detailed rules and regulations for \"implementation\". This false democracy of formal avowal and concrete denial has become a scandalous mark on the history of world democracy.On 26 February 2003, at a meeting of democratic consultation between the standing committee of the political bureau of the central committee of the Chinese Communist party and democratic parties, not long after President Hu Jintao assumed office, he stated clearly: \"The removal of restrictions on the press, and the opening up of public opinion positions, is a mainstream view and demand held by society; it is natural, and should be resolved through the legislative process. If the Communist party does not reform itself, if it does not transform, it will lose its vitality and move toward natural and inevitable extinction.\"On 3 October, America's Cable News Network (CNN) aired an interview with Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao by anchor Fareed Zakaria. Responding to the journalist's questions, Wen said: \"Freedom of speech is indispensable for any nation; China's constitution endows the people with freedom of speech; the demands of the people for democracy cannot be resisted.\"In accord with China's constitution, and in the spirit of the remarks made by Hu and Wen, we hereupon represent the following concerning the materialisation of the constitutional rights to freedom of speech and of the press.We have for 61 years \"served as master\" in the name of the citizens of the People's Republic of China. But the freedom of speech and of the press we now enjoy is inferior even to that of Hong Kong before its return to Chinese sovereignty, to that entrusted to the residents of a colony.Before the handover, Hong Kong was a British colony, governed by those appointed by the Queen's government. But the freedom of speech and freedom of the press given to residents of Hong Kong by the British authorities there was not empty, appearing only on paper. It was enacted and realised.When our country was founded in 1949, our people cried that they had been liberated, that they were not their own masters. Mao Zedong said that \"from this moment, the people of China have stood\". But even today, 61 years after the founding of our nation, after 30 years of opening and reform, we have not yet attained freedom of speech and freedom of the press to the degree enjoyed by the people of Hong Kong under colonial rule. Even now, many books discussing political and current affairs must be published in Hong Kong. This is not something that dates from the [territory's] return, but is merely an old tactic familiar under colonial rule. The \"master\" status of the people of China's mainland is so inferior. For our nation to advertise itself as having \"socialist democracy\" with Chinese characteristics is such an embarrassment.Not only the average citizen, but even the most senior leaders of the Communist party have no freedom of speech or press. Recently, Li Rui met with the following circumstance. Not long ago, the Collected Works in Memory of Zhou Xiaozhou were published, and it originally included an essay commemorating Zhou that Li had written for the People's Daily in 1981. Zhou's wife phoned Li to explain the situation: \"Beijing has sent out a notice. Li Rui's writings cannot be published.\" What incredible folly it is that an old piece of writing from a party newspaper cannot be included in a volume of collected works! Li said: \"What kind of country is this?! I want to cry it out: the press must be free! Such strangling of the people's freedom of expression is entirely illegal!\"It's not even just high-level leaders \u2013 even the premier of our country does not have freedom of speech or of the press. On 21 August 2010, Wen gave a speech in Shenzhen called, \"Only by pushing ahead with reforms can our nation have bright prospects.\" He said: \"We must not only push economic reforms, but also promote political reforms. Without the protection afforded by political reforms, the gains we have made from economic reforms will be lost, and our goal of modernisation cannot be realised.\" Xinhua news agency's official news release on 21 August, \"Building a beautiful future for the special economic zone\", omitted the content in Wen's speech dealing with political reform.On 22 September, Wen held a dialogue in New York with American Chinese media and media from Hong Kong and Macao, and again emphasised the importance of \"political system reforms\". Wen said: \"Concerning political reforms, I have said previously that if economic reforms are without the protection to be gained by political reforms, then we cannot be entirely successful, and even perhaps the gains of our progress so far will be lost.\" Shortly after, Wen addressed the 65th session of the United Nations general assembly, giving a speech called \"Recognising a true China\", in which he spoke again about political reform. Late on 23 September, these events were reported on China Central Television's Xinwen Lianbo and in an official news release from Xinhua news agency. They reported only Wen's remarks on the circumstances facing overseas Chinese, and on the importance of overseas Chinese media. His mentions of political reform were all removed.For these matters, if we endeavour to find those responsible, we are utterly incapable of putting our finger on a specific person. This is the work of invisible hands. For their own reasons, they violate our constitution, often ordering by telephone that the works of such and such a person cannot be published, or that such and such an event cannot be reported in the media. The officials who make the call do not leave their names, and the secrecy of the agents is protected, but you must heed their phone instructions. These invisible hands are our central propaganda department. Right now the department is placed above the central committee of the Communist party, and above the state council. We would ask, what right does the central propaganda department have to muzzle the speech of the premier? What right does it have to rob the people of our nation of their right to know what the premier has said?Our core demand is that the system of censorship be dismantled in favour of a system of legal responsibility.The rights to freedom of speech and the press guaranteed in article 35 of our constitution are turned into mere adornments for the walls by means of concrete implementation rules such as the \"ordinance on publishing control\". These implementation rules are, broadly speaking, a system of censorship and approvals. There are countless numbers of commandments and taboos restricting freedom of speech and freedom of the press. The creation of a press law and the abolishment of the censorship system has already become an urgent task before us.We recommend that the National People's Congress work immediately toward the creation of a press law, and that the ordinance on publishing control and local restrictions on news and publishing be annulled. Institutionally speaking, the realisation of freedom of speech and freedom of the press as guaranteed in the constitution means making media independent of the party and government organs that presently control them, thereby transforming \"party mouthpieces\" into \"public instruments.\"Therefore, the foundation of the creation of a press law must be the enacting of a system of [post facto] legal responsibility [determined according to fair laws]. We cannot again strengthen the censorship system in the name of \"strengthening the leadership of the party\". The so-called censorship system is the system by which prior to publication one must receive the approval of party organs, allowing for publication only after approval and designating all unapproved published materials as illegal. The so-called system of legal responsibility means that published materials need not pass through approval by party or government organs, but may be published as soon as the editor-in-chief deems fit. If there are unfavourable outcomes or disputes following publication, the government would be able to intervene and determine according to the law whether there are cases of wrongdoing.In countries around the world, the development of rule of law in news and publishing has followed this path, making a transition from systems of censorship to systems of legal responsibility. There is little doubt that systems of legal responsibility mark progress over systems of censorship, and this is greatly in the favour of the development of the humanities and natural sciences, and in promoting social harmony and historical progress. England did away with censorship in 1695. France abolished its censorship system in 1881, and the publication of newspapers and periodicals thereafter required only a simple declaration, which was signed by the representatives of the publication and mailed to the office of the procurator of the republic. Our present system of censorship leaves news and book publishing in our country 315 years behind England and 129 years behind France.1. Abolish sponsoring institutions of [Chinese] media, allowing publishing institutions to operate independently; and truly implement a system in which directors and editors-in-chief are responsible for their publication units.2. Respect journalists and make them strong. Journalists should be the \"uncrowned kings\". The reporting of mass incidents and exposing of official corruption are noble missions on behalf of the people, and this work should be protected and supported. Immediately put a stop to the unconstitutional behaviour of various local governments and police in arresting journalists. Look into the circumstances behind the case of writer Xie Chaoping. Liang Fengmin, the party secretary of Weinan city [involved in the Xie Chaoping case] must face party discipline as a warning to others.3. Abolish restrictions on extra-territorial supervision by public opinion by the media, ensuring the right of journalists to carry out reporting freely throughout the country.4. The internet is an important discussion platform for information in our society and citizens' views. Aside from information that truly concerns our national secrets and speech that violates a citizen's right to privacy, internet regulatory bodies must not arbitrarily delete online posts and online comments. Online spies must be abolished, the \"fifty-cent party\" must be abolished, and restrictions on anti-censorship technologies must be abolished.5. There are no more taboos concerning our party's history. Chinese citizens have a right to know the errors of the ruling party.6. Southern Weekly and Yanhuang Chunqiu should be permitted to restructure as privately operated pilot programmes in the independent media. The privatisation of newspapers and periodicals is the natural direction of political reforms. History teaches us: when rulers and deliberators are highly unified, when the government and the media are both surnamed \"party\", and when the party sings for its own pleasure, it is difficult to connect with the will of the people and attain true leadership. From the time of the great leap forward to the time of the cultural revolution, newspapers, magazines, television and radio in the mainland have never truly reflected the will of the people. Party and government leaders have been insensible to dissenting voices, so they have had difficulty in recognising and correcting wholesale errors. For a ruling party and government to use the tax money of the people to run media that sing their own praises is something not permitted in democratic nations.7. Permit the free circulation within the mainland of books and periodicals from Hong Kong and Macao. Our country has joined the World Trade Organisation, and economically we have already integrated with the world \u2013 attempting to remain closed culturally goes against the course already plotted for opening and reform. Hong Kong and Macao offer advanced culture right at our nation's door, and the books and periodicals of Hong Kong and Macao are welcomed and trusted by the people.8. Transform the functions of various propaganda organs, so that they are transformed from agencies setting down so many \"taboos\" to agencies protecting the accuracy, timeliness and unimpeded flow of information; from agencies that assist corrupt officials in suppressing and controlling stories that reveal the truth to agencies that support the media in monitoring party and government organs; from agencies that close publications, fire editors and arrest journalists to agencies that oppose power and protect media and journalists. Our propaganda organs have a horrid reputation within the party and in society. They must work for good in order to regain their reputations. At the appropriate time, we can consider renaming these propaganda organs to suit global trends.We represent ourselves, hoping for your utmost attention.Signed:Li Rui, former standing vice minister of the organisation department of the CCP central committee, member of the 12th central committee of the CCPHu Jiwei, former director of People's Daily, standing committee member to the 7th National People's Congress, director of the Federation of Chinese Communication InstitutesJiang Ping, former head of the China University of Political Science and Law, tenured professor, standing committee member to the 7th National People's Congress, deputy director of the executive law committee of the NPCLi Pu, former deputy director of Xinhua news agencyZhou Shaoming, former deputy director of the political department of the Guangzhou military area commandZhong Peizhang, former head of the news office of the central propaganda departmentWang Yongcheng, professor at Shanghai Jiaotong UniversityZhang Zhongpei, researcher at the Imperial Palace museum, chairman of the China Archaeological SocietyDu Guang, former professor at the Central Party SchoolGuo Daojun, former editor-in-chief of China Legal ScienceXiao Mo, former head of the Architecture Research Centre of the Chinese National Academy of ArtsZhuang Puming, former deputy director of People's PressHu Fuchen, former director and editor-in-chief at China Worker's Publishing HouseZhang Ding, former director of the China Social Sciences Press at the Chinese Academy of Social SciencesYu You, former editor-in-chief of China DailyOuyang Jin, former editor-in-chief of Hong Kong's Pacific magazineYu Haocheng, former director of Masses Publishing HouseZhang Qing, former director of China Cinema Publishing HouseYu Yueting, former director of Fujian Television, veteran journalistSha Yexin, former head of the Shanghai People's Art and Drama Academy, now an independent writer of the Hui ethnic minoritySun Xupei, former director of the News Research Institute at the Chinese Academy of Social SciencesXin Ziling, former director of the editorial desk at China National Defence UniversityTie Liu, editor-in-chief of Wangshi Weihen magazine (Scars of the Past).Legal Counsel\uff1aSong Yue, Chinese citizen, practicing lawyer in the State of New York, USThis translation was made by the University of Hong Kong's China Media Project and was first posted here.", "tags": ["China", "Freedom of speech", "Censorship", "Civil liberties - international", "Journalist safety", "Communism", "Media", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China must abandon censorship | Open letter"},{"date": "2010-12-14T12:16:12Z", "country": "china", "content": "Dirty tricks by multinationals, political corruption and the erosion of an African success story have been among the stories that have emerged from the leaked US embassy cables over the past fortnight.The leaked cables, published by WikiLeaks, say that drug company Pfizer hired investigators to find evidence of corruption on the Nigerian attorney general to persuade him to drop legal action over a controversial meningitis drug trial.The cables also highlight rampant corruption in Kenya that threatens to push the country towards violence on a scale worse than that seen after the 2008 presidential election, and uncovers the scale of influence the oil giant Shell wields in Nigeria.Meanwhile, the Ugandan president's \"autocratic tendencies\" come under scrutiny, which, along with corruption, a population explosion and \"sharpening ethnic divisions\" is ruining Uganda's image as an African success story.Coinciding with the publication of his book Beyond the Crash, Madeleine Bunting examines Gordon Brown's passion for development, which seems at odds with his enthusiasm for globalisation, and asks if Britain's former prime minister is vying for a top job at the IMF.Jonathan Glennie argues that while African leaders may prefer to deal with China, rather than the US and Europe, any money from Beijing will still come with strings attached.And Kelly Nicholls writes about the publication of a report that reveals the hidden human tragedy of the 30,000 \"disappeared\" in Colombia.Later this week, we'll launch this month's Global development Focus podcast, which will explore the involvement of celebrities in aid and development. Visit our Talk point section and tell us which celebrities you think do the most good, or the most harm, and nominate those you think we should discuss in the podcast, which will be recorded on Thursday.To mark the Global development website's first Christmas, we'll be publishing a quiz over the festive period to test your knowledge of our coverage of the issues over the past four months.And with 2011 just around the corner, we'll look back at what 2010 did for global development, and look ahead to what the new year could bring.Gallery: South Sudan: the challenge ahead. In January, south Sudan votes on whether to split from the north. National Geographic photographer Karen Kasmasuki, who works with the humanitarian organisation Cafod, visited Sudan and examines the challenges that lie ahead, regardless of the outcome of the referendum.Video: Mozambique: Changing weather patterns and livelihoods. Weather in the Zambezi flood plain has become so unpredictable that subsistence farmers in Mozambique are having to adapt and diversify into different livelihoods.Video: Child labourers on Malawi's tobacco farms. Vulnerable children are being exposed to hazardous working conditions in the tobacco industry. It is estimated that more than 78,000 children work on tobacco estates across Malawi, some up to 12 hours a day, many for less than 1p an hour.On the Talk point article asking for views on the involvement of celebrities in global development, a senior NGO communications manager, who wished to remain anonymous, said:On a blog about tax payments in poor countries, Poverty Focus writes:On Richard Mallett's blog on why aid should not be used to meet the UK's security agenda, NickYoung writes:On AidWatch, William Eastely compares the campaigning credentials of John Lennon and Bono and ponders the \"death of the celebrity activist\".Owen Barder responds to the World Bank's Shanta Devarajan on whether increased social accountability is the answer to \"Development 3.0\".Rachel Godfrey Wood, of the IIED, speculates on the Due South blog, on Iran \"sleep-walking\" towards a progressive universal income grant.", "tags": ["Global development"], "title": "Corruption, China and Gordon Brown"},{"date": "2010-11-11T12:00:01Z", "country": "china", "content": "It's hard to avoid superlatives when describing China. The country's landmass is enormous, covering roughly 9.6m sq km, with a huge population of some 1.3 billion people. Having recently overtaken Japan as the world's second largest economy, it is well on the way to cementing a dominant position on the global markets. Yet one key fact to understand about China is that these developments are seen as nothing new, but a return to the old order of things. During the Tang dynasty (AD618-907) a census from the year 750 revealed a population of one million within the walls of the capital city, Chang'an, making it the largest city in the world at the time. And it was not just its size that was spectacular. The Chinese capital was probably the most powerful economic centre in the ancient world, attracting traders from the west who travelled along the Silk Road to buy and sell. There were Arabs, Persians and Sogdian traders from Samarkand, whose spiritual needs were served by mosques and Zoroastrian temples in the cosmopolitan city.The Chinese pride themselves on having the longest continuous civilisation in the world, although the massive state we know today took time to develop. From isolated Neolithic settlements scattered across the landmass, the great bronze age cultures of the Shang (c1500\u2013c1050BC) and Zhou (c1050\u2013221BC) developed in the north along the Yellow River. As Zhou polity fell apart, the northern part of China was divided between smaller states, many of which built defensive walls, precursors of the Great Wall. In 221BC, the First Emperor conquered all the other states and established his rule over a unified state stretching from the north of Beijing down to the northern border of the Guangdong province and from the far western Sichuan area to the eastern seaboard. This was most of the China we know today \u2013 in fact the name \"China\" derives from the First Emperor's home state of Qin (pronounced \"Chin\") on the Wei river.The First Emperor quickly established an administration to maintain control of this vast landmass. Armed with legal handbooks, texts inscribed on narrow slips of bamboo, tied together and rolled up like tiny bamboo blinds, his officials established a system of law: they set out official standards for weights and measures that were checked rigorously \u2013 swindling offences were punished with sentences of hard labour on imperial walls and roads \u2013 and they conducted forensic investigations into suspicious deaths. A standardised coinage was also introduced: a new form of a circular coin with a square hole in the middle, which was used for more than 2,000 years until 1911. Even now the shape forms a major decorative emblem in ceramics and textiles.In China, the First Emperor's rule is traditionally remembered as that of an unnecessarily harsh tyrant (contrasting with the \"good guys\" from the Han dynasty). Yet the First Emperor also managed to set up a relatively modern, forward-looking legal system that lasted 2,000 years, whereby trained administrators were sent out all over the country to govern by statute. What was right and what was wrong was now no longer subject to the whim of erratic autocrats, but out there for everyone to see. If you stole a sheep, you knew the consequences. China's legal system was described by Jesuit missionaries in the 18th century and admired by Enlightenment thinkers who saw it as a great improvement on rule by hereditary aristocrats.Furthermore, a legal code was promoted that included a concession about legal responsibility. Unlike in Europe, though, it was not based on a person's age. In China even today, on the doors of buses and beside ticket offices in stations and at tourist sites, there is a metre-high mark, indicating that those under a metre in height can enter or travel for free.Another of the First Emperor's decrees was a standardisation of the Chinese script. Though it had been in use for around two millennia, the script had developed into different local forms during the so-called Spring and Autumn period (770\u2013476BC) and Warring States period (475\u2013221BC). After the rule of the First Emperor, there was some further standardisation during the Han dynasty (206BC\u2013AD220), which created the unifying script that has been used ever since. Though it is clear that the pronunciation of Chinese has changed over the millennia, an educated person can still read Han dynasty texts with a fair amount of ease. The sheer difference of Chinese script from other writing systems \u2013 non-alphabetic, with tens of thousands of separate characters \u2013 is a source of national pride. The status of the art of calligraphy is equal to that of painting and has, at times, been higher. Even Mao Zedong, better known in the west as a communist tyrant bent on destroying traditional Chinese culture, prided himself on the wild, \"grass-style\" calligraphy in which he wrote his poems.With the ancient language came ancient traditions and beliefs. In another pattern established by the First Emperor, it was customary for rulers to travel the country, offering sacrifices on the sacred mountains to appease the gods and please rain-bearing dragons. These tours also enabled the emperors to gain an impression of how well their local officials were administering the country, maintaining the delicate balance between the collection of grain and other goods such as tax, and sustaining the life of the peasants by supplying grain relief in times of shortage and keeping up flood defences along China's turbulent rivers. Though the Ming emperors (AD1368\u20131644) were inclined to stay at home, their successors, the invading Manchus from the north-east who established the Qing dynasty (1644\u20131911), revived the practice with enthusiasm. They particularly favoured southern China with their \"southern tours of inspection\", known as nan xun. The Kangxi emperor (1654\u20131722) and the Qianlong emperor (1711\u20131799) were particularly interested in the south, and in southern food and culture. These northerners from the cold Manchurian plains were particularly impressed by the rich, rice-growing, silk-producing cultural centres of Hangzhou, Suzhou and Wuxi. The Qianlong emperor commissioned a copy of the Jichangyuan (Garden of Ease of Mind) in Wuxi to be constructed in the Summer Palace outside Beijing, where it can still be seen today. Both emperors enjoyed southern food so much they retrained their personal cooks \u2013 southern fruits such as lychees and mangoes were soon shipped up the Grand Canal for the imperial kitchens.A more sinister aspect of the traditional respect for language and script is China's long tradition of censorship. It is said that in 213BC, the First Emperor, enraged by conservative critics, ordered a great bonfire in which ancient Confucian texts were destroyed. In 1772, as part of a massive collection of texts to form a huge imperial encyclopaedia, the Qianlong emperor also instructed his officials to seek out seditious works that criticised Manchu rule in what became known as \"the literary inquisition of Qianlong\". During the Cultural Revolution (1966\u20131976) in a bid to destroy the \"four olds\" \u2013 old customs, culture, habits and ideas \u2013 vast quantities of books, paintings, family photographs and works of art were destroyed in a campaign that was remarkably similar to that of the First Emperor's burning of the books.The technological innovations of China's past not only enabled the construction of massive canal networks for transport and improved agricultural techniques but also helped make possible complex and beautiful art objects. They range from the dramatic bronzes of the Shang and Zhou, through the three-coloured ceramic camels of the Tang and the monochrome elegance of Song porcelains (960\u20131279), to the embroidered robes of the Qing. Museums all over the world display aspects of China's artistic achievements. Many demonstrate the ingenuity of China's craftsmen, often working without external stimuli but making their own discoveries. The massive bronzes of 3,000 years ago are unlike those found anywhere else in the world. They were made not by the lost-wax process but in ceramic moulds \u2013 testimony to the skill of the ceramic workers as well as the bronze founders. Porcelain was made in China and perfected a thousand years before European ceramicists groped their way towards the secret of its manufacture. Silk cultivation and weaving were invented in China many thousands of years ago: cut silk cocoons have been discovered in Neolithic sites and silk fabrics survive from Warring States tombs. Silk is probably China's most magical export: a fine yet strong material that was exported along the Silk Road to Rome in the second century BC. The Romans mistakenly believed that it was combed from trees, so the secret of its origin and production were not known outside China until AD522, when production began in Byzantium. Porcelain began to be exported from China in great quantities in the late Tang dynasty and, as European ships began to arrive, first in south-east Asia and eventually in 17th century China, porcelain became a very popular commodity, with European houses filling up with blue and white dishes and bowls.Technological achievements such as gunpowder and the maritime compass are often cited as some of China's most influential gifts to the world. Yet perhaps the greatest legacy was the invention of paper, an essential prerequisite for printing and mass production. Paper and printing were both invented in China \u2013 archaeologists have found paper remains from the second century BC, though according to the standard history of the Han dynasty, the first official mention of the technology was in AD\u00a0105 when the imperial factories officially reported its production to the emperor. Used to make rubbings of significant stone inscriptions such as the Confucian classics in the second century AD, the mass production of paper must have played a part in the invention of woodblock printing in China in about the sixth century, opening up the possibility of cheap mass communication long before Gutenberg's invention of the printing press in Europe. Like silk, paper was used along the Silk Road from the third century BC and by the 10th century had reached Sicily and Spain through the Arab conquests.Paradoxically, even though Chinese products spread across the world to great acclaim, the country itself was little known outside Asia. The arrival of the western nations, intent on trade, coincided with China's decline in the 19th and 20th centuries, a period that now looks like a very short blip in China's long history of economic and cultural success. The decline was internal, caused by expensive wars waged by the Qing emperors, by population growth and a failure to maintain local order. And it was exacerbated by the impatient pressure of western traders, culminating in the two Opium Wars (1839\u20131842 and 1856).The 20th century saw a disastrous period of division and the cruel Japanese invasion, followed by a civil war, after which Mao Zedong and the Communist Party took power in 1949. Since the death of Mao in 1976, new policies have seen the gradual growth of China to its present economic success.Despite its cultural heritage and the dramatic performance of the national economy, and perhaps partly because of the knocks it took in the Cultural Revolution, China has been slow to recover confidence after 200 years of disaster and disunion. There is a widespread tendency to dwell on the humiliation of the Opium Wars, and to regard any setback as a further humiliation of the same sort. China's failure to secure the 2000 and 2004 Olympic Games still rankles, despite the extraordinary spectacle of the 2008 Beijing Olympics. Even the existence of Chinese porcelain in European museums is sometimes resented and regarded as loot even though the vast majority of the pieces were acquired quite legitimately.As China's economy takes off, perhaps sensitivity to 19th century humiliations can be overcome by pride in the earlier past. Occasionally one gets a glance of the self-belief that China's ancient memory can engender. In the 1980s, I met an old monk on the Buddhist mountain of Jiuhua Shan. \"England...\" he said after I had introduced myself. \"You have a queen, don't you? She must be very old by now\". Only as I started my descent did I realise that he had been thinking of Queen Victoria.Frances Wood is head of the Chinese department at the British Library. Her publications include Did Marco Polo Go To China?, The Silk Road, The First Emperor and The Diamond Sutra", "tags": ["Culture", "China", "Archaeology", "Science", "World news", "Art and design", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "The Ancient World | China"},{"date": "2010-10-13T12:00:03Z", "country": "china", "content": "Dear members of the standing committee of the National People's Congress:Article 35 of China's constitution as adopted in 1982 clearly states that: \"Citizens of the People's Republic of China enjoy freedom of speech, of the press, of assembly, of association, of procession and of demonstration.\" For 28 years this article has stood unrealised, having been negated by detailed rules and regulations for \"implementation\". This false democracy of formal avowal and concrete denial has become a scandalous mark on the history of world democracy.On 26 February 2003, at a meeting of democratic consultation between the standing committee of the political bureau of the central committee of the Chinese Communist party and democratic parties, not long after President Hu Jintao assumed office, he stated clearly: \"The removal of restrictions on the press, and the opening up of public opinion positions, is a mainstream view and demand held by society; it is natural, and should be resolved through the legislative process. If the Communist party does not reform itself, if it does not transform, it will lose its vitality and move toward natural and inevitable extinction.\"On 3 October, America's Cable News Network (CNN) aired an interview with Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao by anchor Fareed Zakaria. Responding to the journalist's questions, Wen said: \"Freedom of speech is indispensable for any nation; China's constitution endows the people with freedom of speech; the demands of the people for democracy cannot be resisted.\"In accord with China's constitution, and in the spirit of the remarks made by Hu and Wen, we hereupon represent the following concerning the materialisation of the constitutional rights to freedom of speech and of the press.We have for 61 years \"served as master\" in the name of the citizens of the People's Republic of China. But the freedom of speech and of the press we now enjoy is inferior even to that of Hong Kong before its return to Chinese sovereignty, to that entrusted to the residents of a colony.Before the handover, Hong Kong was a British colony, governed by those appointed by the Queen's government. But the freedom of speech and freedom of the press given to residents of Hong Kong by the British authorities there was not empty, appearing only on paper. It was enacted and realised.When our country was founded in 1949, our people cried that they had been liberated, that they were not their own masters. Mao Zedong said that \"from this moment, the people of China have stood\". But even today, 61 years after the founding of our nation, after 30 years of opening and reform, we have not yet attained freedom of speech and freedom of the press to the degree enjoyed by the people of Hong Kong under colonial rule. Even now, many books discussing political and current affairs must be published in Hong Kong. This is not something that dates from the [territory's] return, but is merely an old tactic familiar under colonial rule. The \"master\" status of the people of China's mainland is so inferior. For our nation to advertise itself as having \"socialist democracy\" with Chinese characteristics is such an embarrassment.Not only the average citizen, but even the most senior leaders of the Communist party have no freedom of speech or press. Recently, Li Rui met with the following circumstance. Not long ago, the Collected Works in Memory of Zhou Xiaozhou were published, and it originally included an essay commemorating Zhou that Li had written for the People's Daily in 1981. Zhou's wife phoned Li to explain the situation: \"Beijing has sent out a notice. Li Rui's writings cannot be published.\" What incredible folly it is that an old piece of writing from a party newspaper cannot be included in a volume of collected works! Li said: \"What kind of country is this?! I want to cry it out: the press must be free! Such strangling of the people's freedom of expression is entirely illegal!\"It's not even just high-level leaders \u2013 even the premier of our country does not have freedom of speech or of the press. On 21 August 2010, Wen gave a speech in Shenzhen called, \"Only by pushing ahead with reforms can our nation have bright prospects.\" He said: \"We must not only push economic reforms, but also promote political reforms. Without the protection afforded by political reforms, the gains we have made from economic reforms will be lost, and our goal of modernisation cannot be realised.\" Xinhua news agency's official news release on 21 August, \"Building a beautiful future for the special economic zone\", omitted the content in Wen's speech dealing with political reform.On 22 September, Wen held a dialogue in New York with American Chinese media and media from Hong Kong and Macao, and again emphasised the importance of \"political system reforms\". Wen said: \"Concerning political reforms, I have said previously that if economic reforms are without the protection to be gained by political reforms, then we cannot be entirely successful, and even perhaps the gains of our progress so far will be lost.\" Shortly after, Wen addressed the 65th session of the United Nations general assembly, giving a speech called \"Recognising a true China\", in which he spoke again about political reform. Late on 23 September, these events were reported on China Central Television's Xinwen Lianbo and in an official news release from Xinhua news agency. They reported only Wen's remarks on the circumstances facing overseas Chinese, and on the importance of overseas Chinese media. His mentions of political reform were all removed.For these matters, if we endeavour to find those responsible, we are utterly incapable of putting our finger on a specific person. This is the work of invisible hands. For their own reasons, they violate our constitution, often ordering by telephone that the works of such and such a person cannot be published, or that such and such an event cannot be reported in the media. The officials who make the call do not leave their names, and the secrecy of the agents is protected, but you must heed their phone instructions. These invisible hands are our central propaganda department. Right now the department is placed above the central committee of the Communist party, and above the state council. We would ask, what right does the central propaganda department have to muzzle the speech of the premier? What right does it have to rob the people of our nation of their right to know what the premier has said?Our core demand is that the system of censorship be dismantled in favour of a system of legal responsibility.The rights to freedom of speech and the press guaranteed in article 35 of our constitution are turned into mere adornments for the walls by means of concrete implementation rules such as the \"ordinance on publishing control\". These implementation rules are, broadly speaking, a system of censorship and approvals. There are countless numbers of commandments and taboos restricting freedom of speech and freedom of the press. The creation of a press law and the abolishment of the censorship system has already become an urgent task before us.We recommend that the National People's Congress work immediately toward the creation of a press law, and that the ordinance on publishing control and local restrictions on news and publishing be annulled. Institutionally speaking, the realisation of freedom of speech and freedom of the press as guaranteed in the constitution means making media independent of the party and government organs that presently control them, thereby transforming \"party mouthpieces\" into \"public instruments.\"Therefore, the foundation of the creation of a press law must be the enacting of a system of [post facto] legal responsibility [determined according to fair laws]. We cannot again strengthen the censorship system in the name of \"strengthening the leadership of the party\". The so-called censorship system is the system by which prior to publication one must receive the approval of party organs, allowing for publication only after approval and designating all unapproved published materials as illegal. The so-called system of legal responsibility means that published materials need not pass through approval by party or government organs, but may be published as soon as the editor-in-chief deems fit. If there are unfavourable outcomes or disputes following publication, the government would be able to intervene and determine according to the law whether there are cases of wrongdoing.In countries around the world, the development of rule of law in news and publishing has followed this path, making a transition from systems of censorship to systems of legal responsibility. There is little doubt that systems of legal responsibility mark progress over systems of censorship, and this is greatly in the favour of the development of the humanities and natural sciences, and in promoting social harmony and historical progress. England did away with censorship in 1695. France abolished its censorship system in 1881, and the publication of newspapers and periodicals thereafter required only a simple declaration, which was signed by the representatives of the publication and mailed to the office of the procurator of the republic. Our present system of censorship leaves news and book publishing in our country 315 years behind England and 129 years behind France.1. Abolish sponsoring institutions of [Chinese] media, allowing publishing institutions to operate independently; and truly implement a system in which directors and editors-in-chief are responsible for their publication units.2. Respect journalists and make them strong. Journalists should be the \"uncrowned kings\". The reporting of mass incidents and exposing of official corruption are noble missions on behalf of the people, and this work should be protected and supported. Immediately put a stop to the unconstitutional behaviour of various local governments and police in arresting journalists. Look into the circumstances behind the case of writer Xie Chaoping. Liang Fengmin, the party secretary of Weinan city [involved in the Xie Chaoping case] must face party discipline as a warning to others.3. Abolish restrictions on extra-territorial supervision by public opinion by the media, ensuring the right of journalists to carry out reporting freely throughout the country.4. The internet is an important discussion platform for information in our society and citizens' views. Aside from information that truly concerns our national secrets and speech that violates a citizen's right to privacy, internet regulatory bodies must not arbitrarily delete online posts and online comments. Online spies must be abolished, the \"fifty-cent party\" must be abolished, and restrictions on anti-censorship technologies must be abolished.5. There are no more taboos concerning our party's history. Chinese citizens have a right to know the errors of the ruling party.6. Southern Weekly and Yanhuang Chunqiu should be permitted to restructure as privately operated pilot programmes in the independent media. The privatisation of newspapers and periodicals is the natural direction of political reforms. History teaches us: when rulers and deliberators are highly unified, when the government and the media are both surnamed \"party\", and when the party sings for its own pleasure, it is difficult to connect with the will of the people and attain true leadership. From the time of the great leap forward to the time of the cultural revolution, newspapers, magazines, television and radio in the mainland have never truly reflected the will of the people. Party and government leaders have been insensible to dissenting voices, so they have had difficulty in recognising and correcting wholesale errors. For a ruling party and government to use the tax money of the people to run media that sing their own praises is something not permitted in democratic nations.7. Permit the free circulation within the mainland of books and periodicals from Hong Kong and Macao. Our country has joined the World Trade Organisation, and economically we have already integrated with the world \u2013 attempting to remain closed culturally goes against the course already plotted for opening and reform. Hong Kong and Macao offer advanced culture right at our nation's door, and the books and periodicals of Hong Kong and Macao are welcomed and trusted by the people.8. Transform the functions of various propaganda organs, so that they are transformed from agencies setting down so many \"taboos\" to agencies protecting the accuracy, timeliness and unimpeded flow of information; from agencies that assist corrupt officials in suppressing and controlling stories that reveal the truth to agencies that support the media in monitoring party and government organs; from agencies that close publications, fire editors and arrest journalists to agencies that oppose power and protect media and journalists. Our propaganda organs have a horrid reputation within the party and in society. They must work for good in order to regain their reputations. At the appropriate time, we can consider renaming these propaganda organs to suit global trends.We represent ourselves, hoping for your utmost attention.Signed:Li Rui, former standing vice minister of the organisation department of the CCP central committee, member of the 12th central committee of the CCPHu Jiwei, former director of People's Daily, standing committee member to the 7th National People's Congress, director of the Federation of Chinese Communication InstitutesJiang Ping, former head of the China University of Political Science and Law, tenured professor, standing committee member to the 7th National People's Congress, deputy director of the executive law committee of the NPCLi Pu, former deputy director of Xinhua news agencyZhou Shaoming, former deputy director of the political department of the Guangzhou military area commandZhong Peizhang, former head of the news office of the central propaganda departmentWang Yongcheng, professor at Shanghai Jiaotong UniversityZhang Zhongpei, researcher at the Imperial Palace museum, chairman of the China Archaeological SocietyDu Guang, former professor at the Central Party SchoolGuo Daojun, former editor-in-chief of China Legal ScienceXiao Mo, former head of the Architecture Research Centre of the Chinese National Academy of ArtsZhuang Puming, former deputy director of People's PressHu Fuchen, former director and editor-in-chief at China Worker's Publishing HouseZhang Ding, former director of the China Social Sciences Press at the Chinese Academy of Social SciencesYu You, former editor-in-chief of China DailyOuyang Jin, former editor-in-chief of Hong Kong's Pacific magazineYu Haocheng, former director of Masses Publishing HouseZhang Qing, former director of China Cinema Publishing HouseYu Yueting, former director of Fujian Television, veteran journalistSha Yexin, former head of the Shanghai People's Art and Drama Academy, now an independent writer of the Hui ethnic minoritySun Xupei, former director of the News Research Institute at the Chinese Academy of Social SciencesXin Ziling, former director of the editorial desk at China National Defence UniversityTie Liu, editor-in-chief of Wangshi Weihen magazine (Scars of the Past).Legal Counsel\uff1aSong Yue, Chinese citizen, practicing lawyer in the State of New York, USThis translation was made by the University of Hong Kong's China Media Project and was first posted here.", "tags": ["China", "Freedom of speech", "Censorship", "Civil liberties - international", "Journalist safety", "Communism", "Media", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China must abandon censorship | Open letter"},{"date": "2010-12-14T12:16:12Z", "country": "china", "content": "Dirty tricks by multinationals, political corruption and the erosion of an African success story have been among the stories that have emerged from the leaked US embassy cables over the past fortnight.The leaked cables, published by WikiLeaks, say that drug company Pfizer hired investigators to find evidence of corruption on the Nigerian attorney general to persuade him to drop legal action over a controversial meningitis drug trial.The cables also highlight rampant corruption in Kenya that threatens to push the country towards violence on a scale worse than that seen after the 2008 presidential election, and uncovers the scale of influence the oil giant Shell wields in Nigeria.Meanwhile, the Ugandan president's \"autocratic tendencies\" come under scrutiny, which, along with corruption, a population explosion and \"sharpening ethnic divisions\" is ruining Uganda's image as an African success story.Coinciding with the publication of his book Beyond the Crash, Madeleine Bunting examines Gordon Brown's passion for development, which seems at odds with his enthusiasm for globalisation, and asks if Britain's former prime minister is vying for a top job at the IMF.Jonathan Glennie argues that while African leaders may prefer to deal with China, rather than the US and Europe, any money from Beijing will still come with strings attached.And Kelly Nicholls writes about the publication of a report that reveals the hidden human tragedy of the 30,000 \"disappeared\" in Colombia.Later this week, we'll launch this month's Global development Focus podcast, which will explore the involvement of celebrities in aid and development. Visit our Talk point section and tell us which celebrities you think do the most good, or the most harm, and nominate those you think we should discuss in the podcast, which will be recorded on Thursday.To mark the Global development website's first Christmas, we'll be publishing a quiz over the festive period to test your knowledge of our coverage of the issues over the past four months.And with 2011 just around the corner, we'll look back at what 2010 did for global development, and look ahead to what the new year could bring.Gallery: South Sudan: the challenge ahead. In January, south Sudan votes on whether to split from the north. National Geographic photographer Karen Kasmasuki, who works with the humanitarian organisation Cafod, visited Sudan and examines the challenges that lie ahead, regardless of the outcome of the referendum.Video: Mozambique: Changing weather patterns and livelihoods. Weather in the Zambezi flood plain has become so unpredictable that subsistence farmers in Mozambique are having to adapt and diversify into different livelihoods.Video: Child labourers on Malawi's tobacco farms. Vulnerable children are being exposed to hazardous working conditions in the tobacco industry. It is estimated that more than 78,000 children work on tobacco estates across Malawi, some up to 12 hours a day, many for less than 1p an hour.On the Talk point article asking for views on the involvement of celebrities in global development, a senior NGO communications manager, who wished to remain anonymous, said:On a blog about tax payments in poor countries, Poverty Focus writes:On Richard Mallett's blog on why aid should not be used to meet the UK's security agenda, NickYoung writes:On AidWatch, William Eastely compares the campaigning credentials of John Lennon and Bono and ponders the \"death of the celebrity activist\".Owen Barder responds to the World Bank's Shanta Devarajan on whether increased social accountability is the answer to \"Development 3.0\".Rachel Godfrey Wood, of the IIED, speculates on the Due South blog, on Iran \"sleep-walking\" towards a progressive universal income grant.", "tags": ["Global development"], "title": "Corruption, China and Gordon Brown"},{"date": "2010-12-03T16:19:27Z", "country": "china", "content": "China's English-language newspaper, China Daily, appeared on newsstands across Europe today.The special weekly issue is being distributed in nine European countries. It follows the launch of similar editions in the United States and Hong Kong.Renzhong Zhi, general manager of China Daily UK, said: \"We identified a gap to provide a useful source of news and analysis to European businesses seeking to better understand and engage with China.\"As more partnerships develop between China and the West, it is crucial that there exists a regular source of insight on changing trends.\"He explained that there would be some breaking news, but the majority of the paper would seek \"to provide a more in-depth review of headlines of the week \u2013 a useful guide to help readers understand the emerging opportunities that exist between China and Europe.\"There is a website here Source: Bell Pottinger press release", "tags": ["Media", "China", "Newspapers", "World news", "Europe", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China Daily launches Europe issue"},{"date": "2010-11-11T12:00:01Z", "country": "china", "content": "It's hard to avoid superlatives when describing China. The country's landmass is enormous, covering roughly 9.6m sq km, with a huge population of some 1.3 billion people. Having recently overtaken Japan as the world's second largest economy, it is well on the way to cementing a dominant position on the global markets. Yet one key fact to understand about China is that these developments are seen as nothing new, but a return to the old order of things. During the Tang dynasty (AD618-907) a census from the year 750 revealed a population of one million within the walls of the capital city, Chang'an, making it the largest city in the world at the time. And it was not just its size that was spectacular. The Chinese capital was probably the most powerful economic centre in the ancient world, attracting traders from the west who travelled along the Silk Road to buy and sell. There were Arabs, Persians and Sogdian traders from Samarkand, whose spiritual needs were served by mosques and Zoroastrian temples in the cosmopolitan city.The Chinese pride themselves on having the longest continuous civilisation in the world, although the massive state we know today took time to develop. From isolated Neolithic settlements scattered across the landmass, the great bronze age cultures of the Shang (c1500\u2013c1050BC) and Zhou (c1050\u2013221BC) developed in the north along the Yellow River. As Zhou polity fell apart, the northern part of China was divided between smaller states, many of which built defensive walls, precursors of the Great Wall. In 221BC, the First Emperor conquered all the other states and established his rule over a unified state stretching from the north of Beijing down to the northern border of the Guangdong province and from the far western Sichuan area to the eastern seaboard. This was most of the China we know today \u2013 in fact the name \"China\" derives from the First Emperor's home state of Qin (pronounced \"Chin\") on the Wei river.The First Emperor quickly established an administration to maintain control of this vast landmass. Armed with legal handbooks, texts inscribed on narrow slips of bamboo, tied together and rolled up like tiny bamboo blinds, his officials established a system of law: they set out official standards for weights and measures that were checked rigorously \u2013 swindling offences were punished with sentences of hard labour on imperial walls and roads \u2013 and they conducted forensic investigations into suspicious deaths. A standardised coinage was also introduced: a new form of a circular coin with a square hole in the middle, which was used for more than 2,000 years until 1911. Even now the shape forms a major decorative emblem in ceramics and textiles.In China, the First Emperor's rule is traditionally remembered as that of an unnecessarily harsh tyrant (contrasting with the \"good guys\" from the Han dynasty). Yet the First Emperor also managed to set up a relatively modern, forward-looking legal system that lasted 2,000 years, whereby trained administrators were sent out all over the country to govern by statute. What was right and what was wrong was now no longer subject to the whim of erratic autocrats, but out there for everyone to see. If you stole a sheep, you knew the consequences. China's legal system was described by Jesuit missionaries in the 18th century and admired by Enlightenment thinkers who saw it as a great improvement on rule by hereditary aristocrats.Furthermore, a legal code was promoted that included a concession about legal responsibility. Unlike in Europe, though, it was not based on a person's age. In China even today, on the doors of buses and beside ticket offices in stations and at tourist sites, there is a metre-high mark, indicating that those under a metre in height can enter or travel for free.Another of the First Emperor's decrees was a standardisation of the Chinese script. Though it had been in use for around two millennia, the script had developed into different local forms during the so-called Spring and Autumn period (770\u2013476BC) and Warring States period (475\u2013221BC). After the rule of the First Emperor, there was some further standardisation during the Han dynasty (206BC\u2013AD220), which created the unifying script that has been used ever since. Though it is clear that the pronunciation of Chinese has changed over the millennia, an educated person can still read Han dynasty texts with a fair amount of ease. The sheer difference of Chinese script from other writing systems \u2013 non-alphabetic, with tens of thousands of separate characters \u2013 is a source of national pride. The status of the art of calligraphy is equal to that of painting and has, at times, been higher. Even Mao Zedong, better known in the west as a communist tyrant bent on destroying traditional Chinese culture, prided himself on the wild, \"grass-style\" calligraphy in which he wrote his poems.With the ancient language came ancient traditions and beliefs. In another pattern established by the First Emperor, it was customary for rulers to travel the country, offering sacrifices on the sacred mountains to appease the gods and please rain-bearing dragons. These tours also enabled the emperors to gain an impression of how well their local officials were administering the country, maintaining the delicate balance between the collection of grain and other goods such as tax, and sustaining the life of the peasants by supplying grain relief in times of shortage and keeping up flood defences along China's turbulent rivers. Though the Ming emperors (AD1368\u20131644) were inclined to stay at home, their successors, the invading Manchus from the north-east who established the Qing dynasty (1644\u20131911), revived the practice with enthusiasm. They particularly favoured southern China with their \"southern tours of inspection\", known as nan xun. The Kangxi emperor (1654\u20131722) and the Qianlong emperor (1711\u20131799) were particularly interested in the south, and in southern food and culture. These northerners from the cold Manchurian plains were particularly impressed by the rich, rice-growing, silk-producing cultural centres of Hangzhou, Suzhou and Wuxi. The Qianlong emperor commissioned a copy of the Jichangyuan (Garden of Ease of Mind) in Wuxi to be constructed in the Summer Palace outside Beijing, where it can still be seen today. Both emperors enjoyed southern food so much they retrained their personal cooks \u2013 southern fruits such as lychees and mangoes were soon shipped up the Grand Canal for the imperial kitchens.A more sinister aspect of the traditional respect for language and script is China's long tradition of censorship. It is said that in 213BC, the First Emperor, enraged by conservative critics, ordered a great bonfire in which ancient Confucian texts were destroyed. In 1772, as part of a massive collection of texts to form a huge imperial encyclopaedia, the Qianlong emperor also instructed his officials to seek out seditious works that criticised Manchu rule in what became known as \"the literary inquisition of Qianlong\". During the Cultural Revolution (1966\u20131976) in a bid to destroy the \"four olds\" \u2013 old customs, culture, habits and ideas \u2013 vast quantities of books, paintings, family photographs and works of art were destroyed in a campaign that was remarkably similar to that of the First Emperor's burning of the books.The technological innovations of China's past not only enabled the construction of massive canal networks for transport and improved agricultural techniques but also helped make possible complex and beautiful art objects. They range from the dramatic bronzes of the Shang and Zhou, through the three-coloured ceramic camels of the Tang and the monochrome elegance of Song porcelains (960\u20131279), to the embroidered robes of the Qing. Museums all over the world display aspects of China's artistic achievements. Many demonstrate the ingenuity of China's craftsmen, often working without external stimuli but making their own discoveries. The massive bronzes of 3,000 years ago are unlike those found anywhere else in the world. They were made not by the lost-wax process but in ceramic moulds \u2013 testimony to the skill of the ceramic workers as well as the bronze founders. Porcelain was made in China and perfected a thousand years before European ceramicists groped their way towards the secret of its manufacture. Silk cultivation and weaving were invented in China many thousands of years ago: cut silk cocoons have been discovered in Neolithic sites and silk fabrics survive from Warring States tombs. Silk is probably China's most magical export: a fine yet strong material that was exported along the Silk Road to Rome in the second century BC. The Romans mistakenly believed that it was combed from trees, so the secret of its origin and production were not known outside China until AD522, when production began in Byzantium. Porcelain began to be exported from China in great quantities in the late Tang dynasty and, as European ships began to arrive, first in south-east Asia and eventually in 17th century China, porcelain became a very popular commodity, with European houses filling up with blue and white dishes and bowls.Technological achievements such as gunpowder and the maritime compass are often cited as some of China's most influential gifts to the world. Yet perhaps the greatest legacy was the invention of paper, an essential prerequisite for printing and mass production. Paper and printing were both invented in China \u2013 archaeologists have found paper remains from the second century BC, though according to the standard history of the Han dynasty, the first official mention of the technology was in AD\u00a0105 when the imperial factories officially reported its production to the emperor. Used to make rubbings of significant stone inscriptions such as the Confucian classics in the second century AD, the mass production of paper must have played a part in the invention of woodblock printing in China in about the sixth century, opening up the possibility of cheap mass communication long before Gutenberg's invention of the printing press in Europe. Like silk, paper was used along the Silk Road from the third century BC and by the 10th century had reached Sicily and Spain through the Arab conquests.Paradoxically, even though Chinese products spread across the world to great acclaim, the country itself was little known outside Asia. The arrival of the western nations, intent on trade, coincided with China's decline in the 19th and 20th centuries, a period that now looks like a very short blip in China's long history of economic and cultural success. The decline was internal, caused by expensive wars waged by the Qing emperors, by population growth and a failure to maintain local order. And it was exacerbated by the impatient pressure of western traders, culminating in the two Opium Wars (1839\u20131842 and 1856).The 20th century saw a disastrous period of division and the cruel Japanese invasion, followed by a civil war, after which Mao Zedong and the Communist Party took power in 1949. Since the death of Mao in 1976, new policies have seen the gradual growth of China to its present economic success.Despite its cultural heritage and the dramatic performance of the national economy, and perhaps partly because of the knocks it took in the Cultural Revolution, China has been slow to recover confidence after 200 years of disaster and disunion. There is a widespread tendency to dwell on the humiliation of the Opium Wars, and to regard any setback as a further humiliation of the same sort. China's failure to secure the 2000 and 2004 Olympic Games still rankles, despite the extraordinary spectacle of the 2008 Beijing Olympics. Even the existence of Chinese porcelain in European museums is sometimes resented and regarded as loot even though the vast majority of the pieces were acquired quite legitimately.As China's economy takes off, perhaps sensitivity to 19th century humiliations can be overcome by pride in the earlier past. Occasionally one gets a glance of the self-belief that China's ancient memory can engender. In the 1980s, I met an old monk on the Buddhist mountain of Jiuhua Shan. \"England...\" he said after I had introduced myself. \"You have a queen, don't you? She must be very old by now\". Only as I started my descent did I realise that he had been thinking of Queen Victoria.Frances Wood is head of the Chinese department at the British Library. Her publications include Did Marco Polo Go To China?, The Silk Road, The First Emperor and The Diamond Sutra", "tags": ["Culture", "China", "Archaeology", "Science", "World news", "Art and design", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "The Ancient World | China"},{"date": "2010-10-13T12:00:03Z", "country": "china", "content": "Dear members of the standing committee of the National People's Congress:Article 35 of China's constitution as adopted in 1982 clearly states that: \"Citizens of the People's Republic of China enjoy freedom of speech, of the press, of assembly, of association, of procession and of demonstration.\" For 28 years this article has stood unrealised, having been negated by detailed rules and regulations for \"implementation\". This false democracy of formal avowal and concrete denial has become a scandalous mark on the history of world democracy.On 26 February 2003, at a meeting of democratic consultation between the standing committee of the political bureau of the central committee of the Chinese Communist party and democratic parties, not long after President Hu Jintao assumed office, he stated clearly: \"The removal of restrictions on the press, and the opening up of public opinion positions, is a mainstream view and demand held by society; it is natural, and should be resolved through the legislative process. If the Communist party does not reform itself, if it does not transform, it will lose its vitality and move toward natural and inevitable extinction.\"On 3 October, America's Cable News Network (CNN) aired an interview with Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao by anchor Fareed Zakaria. Responding to the journalist's questions, Wen said: \"Freedom of speech is indispensable for any nation; China's constitution endows the people with freedom of speech; the demands of the people for democracy cannot be resisted.\"In accord with China's constitution, and in the spirit of the remarks made by Hu and Wen, we hereupon represent the following concerning the materialisation of the constitutional rights to freedom of speech and of the press.We have for 61 years \"served as master\" in the name of the citizens of the People's Republic of China. But the freedom of speech and of the press we now enjoy is inferior even to that of Hong Kong before its return to Chinese sovereignty, to that entrusted to the residents of a colony.Before the handover, Hong Kong was a British colony, governed by those appointed by the Queen's government. But the freedom of speech and freedom of the press given to residents of Hong Kong by the British authorities there was not empty, appearing only on paper. It was enacted and realised.When our country was founded in 1949, our people cried that they had been liberated, that they were not their own masters. Mao Zedong said that \"from this moment, the people of China have stood\". But even today, 61 years after the founding of our nation, after 30 years of opening and reform, we have not yet attained freedom of speech and freedom of the press to the degree enjoyed by the people of Hong Kong under colonial rule. Even now, many books discussing political and current affairs must be published in Hong Kong. This is not something that dates from the [territory's] return, but is merely an old tactic familiar under colonial rule. The \"master\" status of the people of China's mainland is so inferior. For our nation to advertise itself as having \"socialist democracy\" with Chinese characteristics is such an embarrassment.Not only the average citizen, but even the most senior leaders of the Communist party have no freedom of speech or press. Recently, Li Rui met with the following circumstance. Not long ago, the Collected Works in Memory of Zhou Xiaozhou were published, and it originally included an essay commemorating Zhou that Li had written for the People's Daily in 1981. Zhou's wife phoned Li to explain the situation: \"Beijing has sent out a notice. Li Rui's writings cannot be published.\" What incredible folly it is that an old piece of writing from a party newspaper cannot be included in a volume of collected works! Li said: \"What kind of country is this?! I want to cry it out: the press must be free! Such strangling of the people's freedom of expression is entirely illegal!\"It's not even just high-level leaders \u2013 even the premier of our country does not have freedom of speech or of the press. On 21 August 2010, Wen gave a speech in Shenzhen called, \"Only by pushing ahead with reforms can our nation have bright prospects.\" He said: \"We must not only push economic reforms, but also promote political reforms. Without the protection afforded by political reforms, the gains we have made from economic reforms will be lost, and our goal of modernisation cannot be realised.\" Xinhua news agency's official news release on 21 August, \"Building a beautiful future for the special economic zone\", omitted the content in Wen's speech dealing with political reform.On 22 September, Wen held a dialogue in New York with American Chinese media and media from Hong Kong and Macao, and again emphasised the importance of \"political system reforms\". Wen said: \"Concerning political reforms, I have said previously that if economic reforms are without the protection to be gained by political reforms, then we cannot be entirely successful, and even perhaps the gains of our progress so far will be lost.\" Shortly after, Wen addressed the 65th session of the United Nations general assembly, giving a speech called \"Recognising a true China\", in which he spoke again about political reform. Late on 23 September, these events were reported on China Central Television's Xinwen Lianbo and in an official news release from Xinhua news agency. They reported only Wen's remarks on the circumstances facing overseas Chinese, and on the importance of overseas Chinese media. His mentions of political reform were all removed.For these matters, if we endeavour to find those responsible, we are utterly incapable of putting our finger on a specific person. This is the work of invisible hands. For their own reasons, they violate our constitution, often ordering by telephone that the works of such and such a person cannot be published, or that such and such an event cannot be reported in the media. The officials who make the call do not leave their names, and the secrecy of the agents is protected, but you must heed their phone instructions. These invisible hands are our central propaganda department. Right now the department is placed above the central committee of the Communist party, and above the state council. We would ask, what right does the central propaganda department have to muzzle the speech of the premier? What right does it have to rob the people of our nation of their right to know what the premier has said?Our core demand is that the system of censorship be dismantled in favour of a system of legal responsibility.The rights to freedom of speech and the press guaranteed in article 35 of our constitution are turned into mere adornments for the walls by means of concrete implementation rules such as the \"ordinance on publishing control\". These implementation rules are, broadly speaking, a system of censorship and approvals. There are countless numbers of commandments and taboos restricting freedom of speech and freedom of the press. The creation of a press law and the abolishment of the censorship system has already become an urgent task before us.We recommend that the National People's Congress work immediately toward the creation of a press law, and that the ordinance on publishing control and local restrictions on news and publishing be annulled. Institutionally speaking, the realisation of freedom of speech and freedom of the press as guaranteed in the constitution means making media independent of the party and government organs that presently control them, thereby transforming \"party mouthpieces\" into \"public instruments.\"Therefore, the foundation of the creation of a press law must be the enacting of a system of [post facto] legal responsibility [determined according to fair laws]. We cannot again strengthen the censorship system in the name of \"strengthening the leadership of the party\". The so-called censorship system is the system by which prior to publication one must receive the approval of party organs, allowing for publication only after approval and designating all unapproved published materials as illegal. The so-called system of legal responsibility means that published materials need not pass through approval by party or government organs, but may be published as soon as the editor-in-chief deems fit. If there are unfavourable outcomes or disputes following publication, the government would be able to intervene and determine according to the law whether there are cases of wrongdoing.In countries around the world, the development of rule of law in news and publishing has followed this path, making a transition from systems of censorship to systems of legal responsibility. There is little doubt that systems of legal responsibility mark progress over systems of censorship, and this is greatly in the favour of the development of the humanities and natural sciences, and in promoting social harmony and historical progress. England did away with censorship in 1695. France abolished its censorship system in 1881, and the publication of newspapers and periodicals thereafter required only a simple declaration, which was signed by the representatives of the publication and mailed to the office of the procurator of the republic. Our present system of censorship leaves news and book publishing in our country 315 years behind England and 129 years behind France.1. Abolish sponsoring institutions of [Chinese] media, allowing publishing institutions to operate independently; and truly implement a system in which directors and editors-in-chief are responsible for their publication units.2. Respect journalists and make them strong. Journalists should be the \"uncrowned kings\". The reporting of mass incidents and exposing of official corruption are noble missions on behalf of the people, and this work should be protected and supported. Immediately put a stop to the unconstitutional behaviour of various local governments and police in arresting journalists. Look into the circumstances behind the case of writer Xie Chaoping. Liang Fengmin, the party secretary of Weinan city [involved in the Xie Chaoping case] must face party discipline as a warning to others.3. Abolish restrictions on extra-territorial supervision by public opinion by the media, ensuring the right of journalists to carry out reporting freely throughout the country.4. The internet is an important discussion platform for information in our society and citizens' views. Aside from information that truly concerns our national secrets and speech that violates a citizen's right to privacy, internet regulatory bodies must not arbitrarily delete online posts and online comments. Online spies must be abolished, the \"fifty-cent party\" must be abolished, and restrictions on anti-censorship technologies must be abolished.5. There are no more taboos concerning our party's history. Chinese citizens have a right to know the errors of the ruling party.6. Southern Weekly and Yanhuang Chunqiu should be permitted to restructure as privately operated pilot programmes in the independent media. The privatisation of newspapers and periodicals is the natural direction of political reforms. History teaches us: when rulers and deliberators are highly unified, when the government and the media are both surnamed \"party\", and when the party sings for its own pleasure, it is difficult to connect with the will of the people and attain true leadership. From the time of the great leap forward to the time of the cultural revolution, newspapers, magazines, television and radio in the mainland have never truly reflected the will of the people. Party and government leaders have been insensible to dissenting voices, so they have had difficulty in recognising and correcting wholesale errors. For a ruling party and government to use the tax money of the people to run media that sing their own praises is something not permitted in democratic nations.7. Permit the free circulation within the mainland of books and periodicals from Hong Kong and Macao. Our country has joined the World Trade Organisation, and economically we have already integrated with the world \u2013 attempting to remain closed culturally goes against the course already plotted for opening and reform. Hong Kong and Macao offer advanced culture right at our nation's door, and the books and periodicals of Hong Kong and Macao are welcomed and trusted by the people.8. Transform the functions of various propaganda organs, so that they are transformed from agencies setting down so many \"taboos\" to agencies protecting the accuracy, timeliness and unimpeded flow of information; from agencies that assist corrupt officials in suppressing and controlling stories that reveal the truth to agencies that support the media in monitoring party and government organs; from agencies that close publications, fire editors and arrest journalists to agencies that oppose power and protect media and journalists. Our propaganda organs have a horrid reputation within the party and in society. They must work for good in order to regain their reputations. At the appropriate time, we can consider renaming these propaganda organs to suit global trends.We represent ourselves, hoping for your utmost attention.Signed:Li Rui, former standing vice minister of the organisation department of the CCP central committee, member of the 12th central committee of the CCPHu Jiwei, former director of People's Daily, standing committee member to the 7th National People's Congress, director of the Federation of Chinese Communication InstitutesJiang Ping, former head of the China University of Political Science and Law, tenured professor, standing committee member to the 7th National People's Congress, deputy director of the executive law committee of the NPCLi Pu, former deputy director of Xinhua news agencyZhou Shaoming, former deputy director of the political department of the Guangzhou military area commandZhong Peizhang, former head of the news office of the central propaganda departmentWang Yongcheng, professor at Shanghai Jiaotong UniversityZhang Zhongpei, researcher at the Imperial Palace museum, chairman of the China Archaeological SocietyDu Guang, former professor at the Central Party SchoolGuo Daojun, former editor-in-chief of China Legal ScienceXiao Mo, former head of the Architecture Research Centre of the Chinese National Academy of ArtsZhuang Puming, former deputy director of People's PressHu Fuchen, former director and editor-in-chief at China Worker's Publishing HouseZhang Ding, former director of the China Social Sciences Press at the Chinese Academy of Social SciencesYu You, former editor-in-chief of China DailyOuyang Jin, former editor-in-chief of Hong Kong's Pacific magazineYu Haocheng, former director of Masses Publishing HouseZhang Qing, former director of China Cinema Publishing HouseYu Yueting, former director of Fujian Television, veteran journalistSha Yexin, former head of the Shanghai People's Art and Drama Academy, now an independent writer of the Hui ethnic minoritySun Xupei, former director of the News Research Institute at the Chinese Academy of Social SciencesXin Ziling, former director of the editorial desk at China National Defence UniversityTie Liu, editor-in-chief of Wangshi Weihen magazine (Scars of the Past).Legal Counsel\uff1aSong Yue, Chinese citizen, practicing lawyer in the State of New York, USThis translation was made by the University of Hong Kong's China Media Project and was first posted here.", "tags": ["China", "Freedom of speech", "Censorship", "Civil liberties - international", "Journalist safety", "Communism", "Media", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China must abandon censorship | Open letter"},{"date": "2010-12-14T12:16:12Z", "country": "china", "content": "Dirty tricks by multinationals, political corruption and the erosion of an African success story have been among the stories that have emerged from the leaked US embassy cables over the past fortnight.The leaked cables, published by WikiLeaks, say that drug company Pfizer hired investigators to find evidence of corruption on the Nigerian attorney general to persuade him to drop legal action over a controversial meningitis drug trial.The cables also highlight rampant corruption in Kenya that threatens to push the country towards violence on a scale worse than that seen after the 2008 presidential election, and uncovers the scale of influence the oil giant Shell wields in Nigeria.Meanwhile, the Ugandan president's \"autocratic tendencies\" come under scrutiny, which, along with corruption, a population explosion and \"sharpening ethnic divisions\" is ruining Uganda's image as an African success story.Coinciding with the publication of his book Beyond the Crash, Madeleine Bunting examines Gordon Brown's passion for development, which seems at odds with his enthusiasm for globalisation, and asks if Britain's former prime minister is vying for a top job at the IMF.Jonathan Glennie argues that while African leaders may prefer to deal with China, rather than the US and Europe, any money from Beijing will still come with strings attached.And Kelly Nicholls writes about the publication of a report that reveals the hidden human tragedy of the 30,000 \"disappeared\" in Colombia.Later this week, we'll launch this month's Global development Focus podcast, which will explore the involvement of celebrities in aid and development. Visit our Talk point section and tell us which celebrities you think do the most good, or the most harm, and nominate those you think we should discuss in the podcast, which will be recorded on Thursday.To mark the Global development website's first Christmas, we'll be publishing a quiz over the festive period to test your knowledge of our coverage of the issues over the past four months.And with 2011 just around the corner, we'll look back at what 2010 did for global development, and look ahead to what the new year could bring.Gallery: South Sudan: the challenge ahead. In January, south Sudan votes on whether to split from the north. National Geographic photographer Karen Kasmasuki, who works with the humanitarian organisation Cafod, visited Sudan and examines the challenges that lie ahead, regardless of the outcome of the referendum.Video: Mozambique: Changing weather patterns and livelihoods. Weather in the Zambezi flood plain has become so unpredictable that subsistence farmers in Mozambique are having to adapt and diversify into different livelihoods.Video: Child labourers on Malawi's tobacco farms. Vulnerable children are being exposed to hazardous working conditions in the tobacco industry. It is estimated that more than 78,000 children work on tobacco estates across Malawi, some up to 12 hours a day, many for less than 1p an hour.On the Talk point article asking for views on the involvement of celebrities in global development, a senior NGO communications manager, who wished to remain anonymous, said:On a blog about tax payments in poor countries, Poverty Focus writes:On Richard Mallett's blog on why aid should not be used to meet the UK's security agenda, NickYoung writes:On AidWatch, William Eastely compares the campaigning credentials of John Lennon and Bono and ponders the \"death of the celebrity activist\".Owen Barder responds to the World Bank's Shanta Devarajan on whether increased social accountability is the answer to \"Development 3.0\".Rachel Godfrey Wood, of the IIED, speculates on the Due South blog, on Iran \"sleep-walking\" towards a progressive universal income grant.", "tags": ["Global development"], "title": "Corruption, China and Gordon Brown"},{"date": "2010-12-03T16:19:27Z", "country": "china", "content": "China's English-language newspaper, China Daily, appeared on newsstands across Europe today.The special weekly issue is being distributed in nine European countries. It follows the launch of similar editions in the United States and Hong Kong.Renzhong Zhi, general manager of China Daily UK, said: \"We identified a gap to provide a useful source of news and analysis to European businesses seeking to better understand and engage with China.\"As more partnerships develop between China and the West, it is crucial that there exists a regular source of insight on changing trends.\"He explained that there would be some breaking news, but the majority of the paper would seek \"to provide a more in-depth review of headlines of the week \u2013 a useful guide to help readers understand the emerging opportunities that exist between China and Europe.\"There is a website here Source: Bell Pottinger press release", "tags": ["Media", "China", "Newspapers", "World news", "Europe", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China Daily launches Europe issue"},{"date": "2010-11-18T12:22:13Z", "country": "china", "content": "China today denied US allegations that it \"hijacked\" highly sensitive internet traffic \u2013 including emails sent to and from US military websites \u2013 earlier this year.A state-owned telecoms company in China had access to 15% of global internet traffic, including confidential emails from Nasa and the US army, for 18 minutes in April, according to an annual security report delivered to the US congress on Wednesday.The report warned that the capture \"could enable severe malicious activities\" by China. The state-owned company accused of \"hijacking\" the encrypted information, China Telecom, today denied \"any hijack of internet traffic\".Online security experts say the capture represents \"one of the biggest hijacks\" of sensitive information in the history of the internet.Relations between China and the US \u2013 number one and two in the world, respectively, in terms of internet users \u2013 have long been fraught when it comes to the web.Earlier this year US technology giant Google said it was to stop censoring results on its Chinese search engine, following a sophisticated and allegedly state-sponsored cyber attack directed at the company. China earlier accused the US of making \"groundless accusations\" about restrictions on internet freedom against the country.The US report said that some 15% of global internet traffic was routed through Chinese servers earlier this year, prompting worries that the country now has access to sensitive correspondence from US government bodies. US commissioner Larry Wortzel raised concerns on Wednesday that China would now \"get the internet addresses of everybody that communicated\" with the US armed services' chiefs of staff.The rerouting began at a smaller Chinese ISP called IDC China before being passed on to China Telecom, the report compiled by the US-China economic and security review commission claimed. Encrypted correspondence from the US senate, the department of defence and \"many others\" were among the huge amount of traffic captured by China.Dmitri Alperovitch, a threat research analyst at internet security firm McAfee, said the capture \"is one of the biggest \u2013 if not the biggest hijacks \u2013 we have ever seen\".\"No one except China Telecom operators\" know what happened to the traffic during those 18 minutes, Alperovitch added. \"The possibilities are numerous and troubling, but definitive answers are unknown.\"", "tags": ["Internet", "Data and computer security", "Technology", "China", "World news", "Digital media", "Media", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China denies 'hijacking' internet traffic"},{"date": "2010-11-11T12:00:01Z", "country": "china", "content": "It's hard to avoid superlatives when describing China. The country's landmass is enormous, covering roughly 9.6m sq km, with a huge population of some 1.3 billion people. Having recently overtaken Japan as the world's second largest economy, it is well on the way to cementing a dominant position on the global markets. Yet one key fact to understand about China is that these developments are seen as nothing new, but a return to the old order of things. During the Tang dynasty (AD618-907) a census from the year 750 revealed a population of one million within the walls of the capital city, Chang'an, making it the largest city in the world at the time. And it was not just its size that was spectacular. The Chinese capital was probably the most powerful economic centre in the ancient world, attracting traders from the west who travelled along the Silk Road to buy and sell. There were Arabs, Persians and Sogdian traders from Samarkand, whose spiritual needs were served by mosques and Zoroastrian temples in the cosmopolitan city.The Chinese pride themselves on having the longest continuous civilisation in the world, although the massive state we know today took time to develop. From isolated Neolithic settlements scattered across the landmass, the great bronze age cultures of the Shang (c1500\u2013c1050BC) and Zhou (c1050\u2013221BC) developed in the north along the Yellow River. As Zhou polity fell apart, the northern part of China was divided between smaller states, many of which built defensive walls, precursors of the Great Wall. In 221BC, the First Emperor conquered all the other states and established his rule over a unified state stretching from the north of Beijing down to the northern border of the Guangdong province and from the far western Sichuan area to the eastern seaboard. This was most of the China we know today \u2013 in fact the name \"China\" derives from the First Emperor's home state of Qin (pronounced \"Chin\") on the Wei river.The First Emperor quickly established an administration to maintain control of this vast landmass. Armed with legal handbooks, texts inscribed on narrow slips of bamboo, tied together and rolled up like tiny bamboo blinds, his officials established a system of law: they set out official standards for weights and measures that were checked rigorously \u2013 swindling offences were punished with sentences of hard labour on imperial walls and roads \u2013 and they conducted forensic investigations into suspicious deaths. A standardised coinage was also introduced: a new form of a circular coin with a square hole in the middle, which was used for more than 2,000 years until 1911. Even now the shape forms a major decorative emblem in ceramics and textiles.In China, the First Emperor's rule is traditionally remembered as that of an unnecessarily harsh tyrant (contrasting with the \"good guys\" from the Han dynasty). Yet the First Emperor also managed to set up a relatively modern, forward-looking legal system that lasted 2,000 years, whereby trained administrators were sent out all over the country to govern by statute. What was right and what was wrong was now no longer subject to the whim of erratic autocrats, but out there for everyone to see. If you stole a sheep, you knew the consequences. China's legal system was described by Jesuit missionaries in the 18th century and admired by Enlightenment thinkers who saw it as a great improvement on rule by hereditary aristocrats.Furthermore, a legal code was promoted that included a concession about legal responsibility. Unlike in Europe, though, it was not based on a person's age. In China even today, on the doors of buses and beside ticket offices in stations and at tourist sites, there is a metre-high mark, indicating that those under a metre in height can enter or travel for free.Another of the First Emperor's decrees was a standardisation of the Chinese script. Though it had been in use for around two millennia, the script had developed into different local forms during the so-called Spring and Autumn period (770\u2013476BC) and Warring States period (475\u2013221BC). After the rule of the First Emperor, there was some further standardisation during the Han dynasty (206BC\u2013AD220), which created the unifying script that has been used ever since. Though it is clear that the pronunciation of Chinese has changed over the millennia, an educated person can still read Han dynasty texts with a fair amount of ease. The sheer difference of Chinese script from other writing systems \u2013 non-alphabetic, with tens of thousands of separate characters \u2013 is a source of national pride. The status of the art of calligraphy is equal to that of painting and has, at times, been higher. Even Mao Zedong, better known in the west as a communist tyrant bent on destroying traditional Chinese culture, prided himself on the wild, \"grass-style\" calligraphy in which he wrote his poems.With the ancient language came ancient traditions and beliefs. In another pattern established by the First Emperor, it was customary for rulers to travel the country, offering sacrifices on the sacred mountains to appease the gods and please rain-bearing dragons. These tours also enabled the emperors to gain an impression of how well their local officials were administering the country, maintaining the delicate balance between the collection of grain and other goods such as tax, and sustaining the life of the peasants by supplying grain relief in times of shortage and keeping up flood defences along China's turbulent rivers. Though the Ming emperors (AD1368\u20131644) were inclined to stay at home, their successors, the invading Manchus from the north-east who established the Qing dynasty (1644\u20131911), revived the practice with enthusiasm. They particularly favoured southern China with their \"southern tours of inspection\", known as nan xun. The Kangxi emperor (1654\u20131722) and the Qianlong emperor (1711\u20131799) were particularly interested in the south, and in southern food and culture. These northerners from the cold Manchurian plains were particularly impressed by the rich, rice-growing, silk-producing cultural centres of Hangzhou, Suzhou and Wuxi. The Qianlong emperor commissioned a copy of the Jichangyuan (Garden of Ease of Mind) in Wuxi to be constructed in the Summer Palace outside Beijing, where it can still be seen today. Both emperors enjoyed southern food so much they retrained their personal cooks \u2013 southern fruits such as lychees and mangoes were soon shipped up the Grand Canal for the imperial kitchens.A more sinister aspect of the traditional respect for language and script is China's long tradition of censorship. It is said that in 213BC, the First Emperor, enraged by conservative critics, ordered a great bonfire in which ancient Confucian texts were destroyed. In 1772, as part of a massive collection of texts to form a huge imperial encyclopaedia, the Qianlong emperor also instructed his officials to seek out seditious works that criticised Manchu rule in what became known as \"the literary inquisition of Qianlong\". During the Cultural Revolution (1966\u20131976) in a bid to destroy the \"four olds\" \u2013 old customs, culture, habits and ideas \u2013 vast quantities of books, paintings, family photographs and works of art were destroyed in a campaign that was remarkably similar to that of the First Emperor's burning of the books.The technological innovations of China's past not only enabled the construction of massive canal networks for transport and improved agricultural techniques but also helped make possible complex and beautiful art objects. They range from the dramatic bronzes of the Shang and Zhou, through the three-coloured ceramic camels of the Tang and the monochrome elegance of Song porcelains (960\u20131279), to the embroidered robes of the Qing. Museums all over the world display aspects of China's artistic achievements. Many demonstrate the ingenuity of China's craftsmen, often working without external stimuli but making their own discoveries. The massive bronzes of 3,000 years ago are unlike those found anywhere else in the world. They were made not by the lost-wax process but in ceramic moulds \u2013 testimony to the skill of the ceramic workers as well as the bronze founders. Porcelain was made in China and perfected a thousand years before European ceramicists groped their way towards the secret of its manufacture. Silk cultivation and weaving were invented in China many thousands of years ago: cut silk cocoons have been discovered in Neolithic sites and silk fabrics survive from Warring States tombs. Silk is probably China's most magical export: a fine yet strong material that was exported along the Silk Road to Rome in the second century BC. The Romans mistakenly believed that it was combed from trees, so the secret of its origin and production were not known outside China until AD522, when production began in Byzantium. Porcelain began to be exported from China in great quantities in the late Tang dynasty and, as European ships began to arrive, first in south-east Asia and eventually in 17th century China, porcelain became a very popular commodity, with European houses filling up with blue and white dishes and bowls.Technological achievements such as gunpowder and the maritime compass are often cited as some of China's most influential gifts to the world. Yet perhaps the greatest legacy was the invention of paper, an essential prerequisite for printing and mass production. Paper and printing were both invented in China \u2013 archaeologists have found paper remains from the second century BC, though according to the standard history of the Han dynasty, the first official mention of the technology was in AD\u00a0105 when the imperial factories officially reported its production to the emperor. Used to make rubbings of significant stone inscriptions such as the Confucian classics in the second century AD, the mass production of paper must have played a part in the invention of woodblock printing in China in about the sixth century, opening up the possibility of cheap mass communication long before Gutenberg's invention of the printing press in Europe. Like silk, paper was used along the Silk Road from the third century BC and by the 10th century had reached Sicily and Spain through the Arab conquests.Paradoxically, even though Chinese products spread across the world to great acclaim, the country itself was little known outside Asia. The arrival of the western nations, intent on trade, coincided with China's decline in the 19th and 20th centuries, a period that now looks like a very short blip in China's long history of economic and cultural success. The decline was internal, caused by expensive wars waged by the Qing emperors, by population growth and a failure to maintain local order. And it was exacerbated by the impatient pressure of western traders, culminating in the two Opium Wars (1839\u20131842 and 1856).The 20th century saw a disastrous period of division and the cruel Japanese invasion, followed by a civil war, after which Mao Zedong and the Communist Party took power in 1949. Since the death of Mao in 1976, new policies have seen the gradual growth of China to its present economic success.Despite its cultural heritage and the dramatic performance of the national economy, and perhaps partly because of the knocks it took in the Cultural Revolution, China has been slow to recover confidence after 200 years of disaster and disunion. There is a widespread tendency to dwell on the humiliation of the Opium Wars, and to regard any setback as a further humiliation of the same sort. China's failure to secure the 2000 and 2004 Olympic Games still rankles, despite the extraordinary spectacle of the 2008 Beijing Olympics. Even the existence of Chinese porcelain in European museums is sometimes resented and regarded as loot even though the vast majority of the pieces were acquired quite legitimately.As China's economy takes off, perhaps sensitivity to 19th century humiliations can be overcome by pride in the earlier past. Occasionally one gets a glance of the self-belief that China's ancient memory can engender. In the 1980s, I met an old monk on the Buddhist mountain of Jiuhua Shan. \"England...\" he said after I had introduced myself. \"You have a queen, don't you? She must be very old by now\". Only as I started my descent did I realise that he had been thinking of Queen Victoria.Frances Wood is head of the Chinese department at the British Library. Her publications include Did Marco Polo Go To China?, The Silk Road, The First Emperor and The Diamond Sutra", "tags": ["Culture", "China", "Archaeology", "Science", "World news", "Art and design", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "The Ancient World | China"},{"date": "2010-10-13T12:00:03Z", "country": "china", "content": "Dear members of the standing committee of the National People's Congress:Article 35 of China's constitution as adopted in 1982 clearly states that: \"Citizens of the People's Republic of China enjoy freedom of speech, of the press, of assembly, of association, of procession and of demonstration.\" For 28 years this article has stood unrealised, having been negated by detailed rules and regulations for \"implementation\". This false democracy of formal avowal and concrete denial has become a scandalous mark on the history of world democracy.On 26 February 2003, at a meeting of democratic consultation between the standing committee of the political bureau of the central committee of the Chinese Communist party and democratic parties, not long after President Hu Jintao assumed office, he stated clearly: \"The removal of restrictions on the press, and the opening up of public opinion positions, is a mainstream view and demand held by society; it is natural, and should be resolved through the legislative process. If the Communist party does not reform itself, if it does not transform, it will lose its vitality and move toward natural and inevitable extinction.\"On 3 October, America's Cable News Network (CNN) aired an interview with Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao by anchor Fareed Zakaria. Responding to the journalist's questions, Wen said: \"Freedom of speech is indispensable for any nation; China's constitution endows the people with freedom of speech; the demands of the people for democracy cannot be resisted.\"In accord with China's constitution, and in the spirit of the remarks made by Hu and Wen, we hereupon represent the following concerning the materialisation of the constitutional rights to freedom of speech and of the press.We have for 61 years \"served as master\" in the name of the citizens of the People's Republic of China. But the freedom of speech and of the press we now enjoy is inferior even to that of Hong Kong before its return to Chinese sovereignty, to that entrusted to the residents of a colony.Before the handover, Hong Kong was a British colony, governed by those appointed by the Queen's government. But the freedom of speech and freedom of the press given to residents of Hong Kong by the British authorities there was not empty, appearing only on paper. It was enacted and realised.When our country was founded in 1949, our people cried that they had been liberated, that they were not their own masters. Mao Zedong said that \"from this moment, the people of China have stood\". But even today, 61 years after the founding of our nation, after 30 years of opening and reform, we have not yet attained freedom of speech and freedom of the press to the degree enjoyed by the people of Hong Kong under colonial rule. Even now, many books discussing political and current affairs must be published in Hong Kong. This is not something that dates from the [territory's] return, but is merely an old tactic familiar under colonial rule. The \"master\" status of the people of China's mainland is so inferior. For our nation to advertise itself as having \"socialist democracy\" with Chinese characteristics is such an embarrassment.Not only the average citizen, but even the most senior leaders of the Communist party have no freedom of speech or press. Recently, Li Rui met with the following circumstance. Not long ago, the Collected Works in Memory of Zhou Xiaozhou were published, and it originally included an essay commemorating Zhou that Li had written for the People's Daily in 1981. Zhou's wife phoned Li to explain the situation: \"Beijing has sent out a notice. Li Rui's writings cannot be published.\" What incredible folly it is that an old piece of writing from a party newspaper cannot be included in a volume of collected works! Li said: \"What kind of country is this?! I want to cry it out: the press must be free! Such strangling of the people's freedom of expression is entirely illegal!\"It's not even just high-level leaders \u2013 even the premier of our country does not have freedom of speech or of the press. On 21 August 2010, Wen gave a speech in Shenzhen called, \"Only by pushing ahead with reforms can our nation have bright prospects.\" He said: \"We must not only push economic reforms, but also promote political reforms. Without the protection afforded by political reforms, the gains we have made from economic reforms will be lost, and our goal of modernisation cannot be realised.\" Xinhua news agency's official news release on 21 August, \"Building a beautiful future for the special economic zone\", omitted the content in Wen's speech dealing with political reform.On 22 September, Wen held a dialogue in New York with American Chinese media and media from Hong Kong and Macao, and again emphasised the importance of \"political system reforms\". Wen said: \"Concerning political reforms, I have said previously that if economic reforms are without the protection to be gained by political reforms, then we cannot be entirely successful, and even perhaps the gains of our progress so far will be lost.\" Shortly after, Wen addressed the 65th session of the United Nations general assembly, giving a speech called \"Recognising a true China\", in which he spoke again about political reform. Late on 23 September, these events were reported on China Central Television's Xinwen Lianbo and in an official news release from Xinhua news agency. They reported only Wen's remarks on the circumstances facing overseas Chinese, and on the importance of overseas Chinese media. His mentions of political reform were all removed.For these matters, if we endeavour to find those responsible, we are utterly incapable of putting our finger on a specific person. This is the work of invisible hands. For their own reasons, they violate our constitution, often ordering by telephone that the works of such and such a person cannot be published, or that such and such an event cannot be reported in the media. The officials who make the call do not leave their names, and the secrecy of the agents is protected, but you must heed their phone instructions. These invisible hands are our central propaganda department. Right now the department is placed above the central committee of the Communist party, and above the state council. We would ask, what right does the central propaganda department have to muzzle the speech of the premier? What right does it have to rob the people of our nation of their right to know what the premier has said?Our core demand is that the system of censorship be dismantled in favour of a system of legal responsibility.The rights to freedom of speech and the press guaranteed in article 35 of our constitution are turned into mere adornments for the walls by means of concrete implementation rules such as the \"ordinance on publishing control\". These implementation rules are, broadly speaking, a system of censorship and approvals. There are countless numbers of commandments and taboos restricting freedom of speech and freedom of the press. The creation of a press law and the abolishment of the censorship system has already become an urgent task before us.We recommend that the National People's Congress work immediately toward the creation of a press law, and that the ordinance on publishing control and local restrictions on news and publishing be annulled. Institutionally speaking, the realisation of freedom of speech and freedom of the press as guaranteed in the constitution means making media independent of the party and government organs that presently control them, thereby transforming \"party mouthpieces\" into \"public instruments.\"Therefore, the foundation of the creation of a press law must be the enacting of a system of [post facto] legal responsibility [determined according to fair laws]. We cannot again strengthen the censorship system in the name of \"strengthening the leadership of the party\". The so-called censorship system is the system by which prior to publication one must receive the approval of party organs, allowing for publication only after approval and designating all unapproved published materials as illegal. The so-called system of legal responsibility means that published materials need not pass through approval by party or government organs, but may be published as soon as the editor-in-chief deems fit. If there are unfavourable outcomes or disputes following publication, the government would be able to intervene and determine according to the law whether there are cases of wrongdoing.In countries around the world, the development of rule of law in news and publishing has followed this path, making a transition from systems of censorship to systems of legal responsibility. There is little doubt that systems of legal responsibility mark progress over systems of censorship, and this is greatly in the favour of the development of the humanities and natural sciences, and in promoting social harmony and historical progress. England did away with censorship in 1695. France abolished its censorship system in 1881, and the publication of newspapers and periodicals thereafter required only a simple declaration, which was signed by the representatives of the publication and mailed to the office of the procurator of the republic. Our present system of censorship leaves news and book publishing in our country 315 years behind England and 129 years behind France.1. Abolish sponsoring institutions of [Chinese] media, allowing publishing institutions to operate independently; and truly implement a system in which directors and editors-in-chief are responsible for their publication units.2. Respect journalists and make them strong. Journalists should be the \"uncrowned kings\". The reporting of mass incidents and exposing of official corruption are noble missions on behalf of the people, and this work should be protected and supported. Immediately put a stop to the unconstitutional behaviour of various local governments and police in arresting journalists. Look into the circumstances behind the case of writer Xie Chaoping. Liang Fengmin, the party secretary of Weinan city [involved in the Xie Chaoping case] must face party discipline as a warning to others.3. Abolish restrictions on extra-territorial supervision by public opinion by the media, ensuring the right of journalists to carry out reporting freely throughout the country.4. The internet is an important discussion platform for information in our society and citizens' views. Aside from information that truly concerns our national secrets and speech that violates a citizen's right to privacy, internet regulatory bodies must not arbitrarily delete online posts and online comments. Online spies must be abolished, the \"fifty-cent party\" must be abolished, and restrictions on anti-censorship technologies must be abolished.5. There are no more taboos concerning our party's history. Chinese citizens have a right to know the errors of the ruling party.6. Southern Weekly and Yanhuang Chunqiu should be permitted to restructure as privately operated pilot programmes in the independent media. The privatisation of newspapers and periodicals is the natural direction of political reforms. History teaches us: when rulers and deliberators are highly unified, when the government and the media are both surnamed \"party\", and when the party sings for its own pleasure, it is difficult to connect with the will of the people and attain true leadership. From the time of the great leap forward to the time of the cultural revolution, newspapers, magazines, television and radio in the mainland have never truly reflected the will of the people. Party and government leaders have been insensible to dissenting voices, so they have had difficulty in recognising and correcting wholesale errors. For a ruling party and government to use the tax money of the people to run media that sing their own praises is something not permitted in democratic nations.7. Permit the free circulation within the mainland of books and periodicals from Hong Kong and Macao. Our country has joined the World Trade Organisation, and economically we have already integrated with the world \u2013 attempting to remain closed culturally goes against the course already plotted for opening and reform. Hong Kong and Macao offer advanced culture right at our nation's door, and the books and periodicals of Hong Kong and Macao are welcomed and trusted by the people.8. Transform the functions of various propaganda organs, so that they are transformed from agencies setting down so many \"taboos\" to agencies protecting the accuracy, timeliness and unimpeded flow of information; from agencies that assist corrupt officials in suppressing and controlling stories that reveal the truth to agencies that support the media in monitoring party and government organs; from agencies that close publications, fire editors and arrest journalists to agencies that oppose power and protect media and journalists. Our propaganda organs have a horrid reputation within the party and in society. They must work for good in order to regain their reputations. At the appropriate time, we can consider renaming these propaganda organs to suit global trends.We represent ourselves, hoping for your utmost attention.Signed:Li Rui, former standing vice minister of the organisation department of the CCP central committee, member of the 12th central committee of the CCPHu Jiwei, former director of People's Daily, standing committee member to the 7th National People's Congress, director of the Federation of Chinese Communication InstitutesJiang Ping, former head of the China University of Political Science and Law, tenured professor, standing committee member to the 7th National People's Congress, deputy director of the executive law committee of the NPCLi Pu, former deputy director of Xinhua news agencyZhou Shaoming, former deputy director of the political department of the Guangzhou military area commandZhong Peizhang, former head of the news office of the central propaganda departmentWang Yongcheng, professor at Shanghai Jiaotong UniversityZhang Zhongpei, researcher at the Imperial Palace museum, chairman of the China Archaeological SocietyDu Guang, former professor at the Central Party SchoolGuo Daojun, former editor-in-chief of China Legal ScienceXiao Mo, former head of the Architecture Research Centre of the Chinese National Academy of ArtsZhuang Puming, former deputy director of People's PressHu Fuchen, former director and editor-in-chief at China Worker's Publishing HouseZhang Ding, former director of the China Social Sciences Press at the Chinese Academy of Social SciencesYu You, former editor-in-chief of China DailyOuyang Jin, former editor-in-chief of Hong Kong's Pacific magazineYu Haocheng, former director of Masses Publishing HouseZhang Qing, former director of China Cinema Publishing HouseYu Yueting, former director of Fujian Television, veteran journalistSha Yexin, former head of the Shanghai People's Art and Drama Academy, now an independent writer of the Hui ethnic minoritySun Xupei, former director of the News Research Institute at the Chinese Academy of Social SciencesXin Ziling, former director of the editorial desk at China National Defence UniversityTie Liu, editor-in-chief of Wangshi Weihen magazine (Scars of the Past).Legal Counsel\uff1aSong Yue, Chinese citizen, practicing lawyer in the State of New York, USThis translation was made by the University of Hong Kong's China Media Project and was first posted here.", "tags": ["China", "Freedom of speech", "Censorship", "Civil liberties - international", "Journalist safety", "Communism", "Media", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China must abandon censorship | Open letter"},{"date": "2010-12-14T12:16:12Z", "country": "china", "content": "Dirty tricks by multinationals, political corruption and the erosion of an African success story have been among the stories that have emerged from the leaked US embassy cables over the past fortnight.The leaked cables, published by WikiLeaks, say that drug company Pfizer hired investigators to find evidence of corruption on the Nigerian attorney general to persuade him to drop legal action over a controversial meningitis drug trial.The cables also highlight rampant corruption in Kenya that threatens to push the country towards violence on a scale worse than that seen after the 2008 presidential election, and uncovers the scale of influence the oil giant Shell wields in Nigeria.Meanwhile, the Ugandan president's \"autocratic tendencies\" come under scrutiny, which, along with corruption, a population explosion and \"sharpening ethnic divisions\" is ruining Uganda's image as an African success story.Coinciding with the publication of his book Beyond the Crash, Madeleine Bunting examines Gordon Brown's passion for development, which seems at odds with his enthusiasm for globalisation, and asks if Britain's former prime minister is vying for a top job at the IMF.Jonathan Glennie argues that while African leaders may prefer to deal with China, rather than the US and Europe, any money from Beijing will still come with strings attached.And Kelly Nicholls writes about the publication of a report that reveals the hidden human tragedy of the 30,000 \"disappeared\" in Colombia.Later this week, we'll launch this month's Global development Focus podcast, which will explore the involvement of celebrities in aid and development. Visit our Talk point section and tell us which celebrities you think do the most good, or the most harm, and nominate those you think we should discuss in the podcast, which will be recorded on Thursday.To mark the Global development website's first Christmas, we'll be publishing a quiz over the festive period to test your knowledge of our coverage of the issues over the past four months.And with 2011 just around the corner, we'll look back at what 2010 did for global development, and look ahead to what the new year could bring.Gallery: South Sudan: the challenge ahead. In January, south Sudan votes on whether to split from the north. National Geographic photographer Karen Kasmasuki, who works with the humanitarian organisation Cafod, visited Sudan and examines the challenges that lie ahead, regardless of the outcome of the referendum.Video: Mozambique: Changing weather patterns and livelihoods. Weather in the Zambezi flood plain has become so unpredictable that subsistence farmers in Mozambique are having to adapt and diversify into different livelihoods.Video: Child labourers on Malawi's tobacco farms. Vulnerable children are being exposed to hazardous working conditions in the tobacco industry. It is estimated that more than 78,000 children work on tobacco estates across Malawi, some up to 12 hours a day, many for less than 1p an hour.On the Talk point article asking for views on the involvement of celebrities in global development, a senior NGO communications manager, who wished to remain anonymous, said:On a blog about tax payments in poor countries, Poverty Focus writes:On Richard Mallett's blog on why aid should not be used to meet the UK's security agenda, NickYoung writes:On AidWatch, William Eastely compares the campaigning credentials of John Lennon and Bono and ponders the \"death of the celebrity activist\".Owen Barder responds to the World Bank's Shanta Devarajan on whether increased social accountability is the answer to \"Development 3.0\".Rachel Godfrey Wood, of the IIED, speculates on the Due South blog, on Iran \"sleep-walking\" towards a progressive universal income grant.", "tags": ["Global development"], "title": "Corruption, China and Gordon Brown"},{"date": "2010-12-03T16:19:27Z", "country": "china", "content": "China's English-language newspaper, China Daily, appeared on newsstands across Europe today.The special weekly issue is being distributed in nine European countries. It follows the launch of similar editions in the United States and Hong Kong.Renzhong Zhi, general manager of China Daily UK, said: \"We identified a gap to provide a useful source of news and analysis to European businesses seeking to better understand and engage with China.\"As more partnerships develop between China and the West, it is crucial that there exists a regular source of insight on changing trends.\"He explained that there would be some breaking news, but the majority of the paper would seek \"to provide a more in-depth review of headlines of the week \u2013 a useful guide to help readers understand the emerging opportunities that exist between China and Europe.\"There is a website here Source: Bell Pottinger press release", "tags": ["Media", "China", "Newspapers", "World news", "Europe", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China Daily launches Europe issue"},{"date": "2010-11-18T12:22:13Z", "country": "china", "content": "China today denied US allegations that it \"hijacked\" highly sensitive internet traffic \u2013 including emails sent to and from US military websites \u2013 earlier this year.A state-owned telecoms company in China had access to 15% of global internet traffic, including confidential emails from Nasa and the US army, for 18 minutes in April, according to an annual security report delivered to the US congress on Wednesday.The report warned that the capture \"could enable severe malicious activities\" by China. The state-owned company accused of \"hijacking\" the encrypted information, China Telecom, today denied \"any hijack of internet traffic\".Online security experts say the capture represents \"one of the biggest hijacks\" of sensitive information in the history of the internet.Relations between China and the US \u2013 number one and two in the world, respectively, in terms of internet users \u2013 have long been fraught when it comes to the web.Earlier this year US technology giant Google said it was to stop censoring results on its Chinese search engine, following a sophisticated and allegedly state-sponsored cyber attack directed at the company. China earlier accused the US of making \"groundless accusations\" about restrictions on internet freedom against the country.The US report said that some 15% of global internet traffic was routed through Chinese servers earlier this year, prompting worries that the country now has access to sensitive correspondence from US government bodies. US commissioner Larry Wortzel raised concerns on Wednesday that China would now \"get the internet addresses of everybody that communicated\" with the US armed services' chiefs of staff.The rerouting began at a smaller Chinese ISP called IDC China before being passed on to China Telecom, the report compiled by the US-China economic and security review commission claimed. Encrypted correspondence from the US senate, the department of defence and \"many others\" were among the huge amount of traffic captured by China.Dmitri Alperovitch, a threat research analyst at internet security firm McAfee, said the capture \"is one of the biggest \u2013 if not the biggest hijacks \u2013 we have ever seen\".\"No one except China Telecom operators\" know what happened to the traffic during those 18 minutes, Alperovitch added. \"The possibilities are numerous and troubling, but definitive answers are unknown.\"", "tags": ["Internet", "Data and computer security", "Technology", "China", "World news", "Digital media", "Media", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China denies 'hijacking' internet traffic"},{"date": "2010-10-29T23:07:47Z", "country": "china", "content": "On 1 October 1954, Sir Hugh Casson, the urbane professor of interior design who had been director of architecture at the Festival of Britain, found himself standing by the Tiananmen Gate in the ancient and still walled city of Peking. In China to present a statement of friendship signed by nearly 700 British scientists and artists, he was watching a parade that the reporter James Cameron reckoned to be \"the greatest show on earth\". First came the troops and the \"military ironwork\", grinding past for a full hour. This was followed by a much longer civil parade in which the people marched by in barely imaginable numbers, beaming with joy at their elevated leaders who gazed back with the slightly \"subdued\" expression of still unaccustomed new emperors.Float after float rolled by, showing model factories and locomotives. Children released balloons and elastic-powered model aeroplanes; the masses united to cry \"Down with American imperialism\"; and Picasso's peace dove was everywhere. Having recently migrated from earlier European congresses, this simplified bird appeared to have usurped the traditional dragons of Peking.The spectacle with which China celebrated the fifth anniversary of the communist liberation was brilliantly organised, as Casson felt obliged to admit. He was less impressed by the admiring expressions worn by many of the other international guests: \"Gold-rimmed spectacles misted with emotion, cheeks creased with years of well-meant service in this cause or in that, shirts defiantly open at the neck, badges in lapels, and there in the middle \u2013 could it have been? \u2013 an MCC tie.\"That particular specimen was Ivor Montagu, a cricket-loving friend and translator of the great Soviet film-maker Sergei Eisenstein. He was also a table tennis champion who preferred \"New China's\" disciplined \"physical jerks\" to the indolence of a capitalist world in which \"rich men\" disdained even walking as \"something you paid those less fortunate to do on your behalf\". And he was by no means alone in his enthusiasm for \"New China\".Sickened by the rapture of the communist regime's ardent western friends, Casson quickly retreated to the shaded \"rest room\" beneath the viewing stand. Here he lingered among yellow-robed Tibetan lamas, sipping tea and exchanging impressions with other doubtful Britons: the classically minded and no longer Marxist novelist and poet Rex Warner, and AJ Ayer, the high-living logical positivist who would come home to tell the BBC that China's parade had reminded him of the Nuremberg rallies. They may also have caught a fleeting glimpse of the Marxist crystallographer JD Bernal, who had no MCC tie but was sporting his Stalin prize medal, collected in Moscow on the way to China. Bernal was full of admiration for New China and its celebrations, but as hour followed hour he too descended from the stand to spend a moment \"sipping orange juice through a straw\" at the same table as the dalai lama.Enraptured or appalled, none of these British witnesses appears to have regretted the absence of Stanley Spencer. The 63-year-old painter, so famously associated with the little Berkshire village of Cookham, had managed to escape the entire show \u2013 thanks, he later explained, to \"some Mongolians\", whose timely arrival at the hotel that morning had provided the cover under which he retreated upstairs to his room.It was the discovery that Spencer had been to China that persuaded me to look further into this forgotten episode. I soon realised that an extraordinary assortment of Britons had made their way to China in 1954, including the former prime minister and leader of the Labour Party, Clement Attlee. And all this nearly two decades before 1972, when President Nixon made the stage-managed and \u2013 even before John Adams got hold of it \u2013 distinctly operatic visit that has gone down in history as the moment when the west entered rapprochement with the People's Republic of China. Were these motley British visitors just credulous idiots, for whom \"Red China\" was another version of the legendary Cathay? That is what the 24-year-old Douglas Hurd and the other diplomats in the British embassy compound in Peking appear to have suspected of these unwelcome freeloaders. Or was something more significant going on?Nowadays, the rapidly increasing number of British travellers to China think nothing of getting on a plane to fly directly there. Yet Spencer had good reason to feel \"trembly\" as he and the five other members of his entirely unofficial cultural delegation approached the runway at Heathrow on 14 September 1954. Though Britain had recognised China a few months after the liberation, it had yet to establish proper diplomatic relations with the communist-led government, and the embarking Britons couldn't pick up a visa until they had reached Prague. That meant crossing the iron curtain dividing Europe. \"Did you go under or over it?\" one joker would later ask, making light of a passage that was actually more like falling over the edge of the known world. The travellers then had to fly across east Europe, pausing at Minsk and Moscow before heading across Siberia and then Mongolia \u2013 all the time relying on their hosts to finance, accommodate and entertain them, and also to provide the vibrating twin-prop planes in which they would hop to the far side of the world, landing every three hours or so to refuel.\"There are bears in there,\" Spencer mused, glancing anxiously down into a nameless Soviet forest at a moment when the engine sputtered \"Fit! Fit! Fit!\" There were troubles at home too. The cold war was entrenched, its dangers exacerbated by the advance of nuclear weaponry on both sides. Britain, meanwhile, was financially straitened, and reliant on loans from America, which demanded adherence to Washington's hard-line foreign policy including its trade embargoes against Russia and China. Under these circumstances, it was by no means just a handful of disgruntled communists and export-hungry businessmen who yearned to make Britain's political outlook more independent. The loss of power gave a distinctly anti-American resonance to the patriotic lament of Shakespeare's John of Gaunt \u2013 that \"This England\" should ever be \"leas'd\u00a0out . . . Like to a tenement, or pelting\u00a0farm\".China remained hostile and isolated behind the recently lowered \"bamboo curtain\". Nevertheless, by the beginning of 1954 a thaw had begun to seem possible. Stalin had died in March 1953, and the Korean war had been brought to a ceasefire not long afterwards. There were indications that Moscow and its Chinese ally might be interested in making more than a slogan out of \"peaceful coexistence\" with the west. It was, however, France's losing war in the area then known as \"French Indo-China\" that persuaded many in western Europe to adopt a more optimistic view of \"New China\" than President Eisenhower's bomb-wreathed \"domino theory\" of Asia's imminent fall to communism.On the morning of Saturday 24 April, the Chinese prime minister and foreign secretary, Zhou Enlai, flew into Geneva from Moscow. He came at the head of a large Chinese delegation to join France, Britain and Russia in a conference aimed at finding a settlement to the Indo-China war. Previously, west Europeans had known the Chinese leader only through anti-communist stereotypes, or the equally partisan hymns of praise issued by witnesses such as Hewlett Johnson, the inordinately optimistic \"Red Dean of Canterbury\".But here he now was, anything but a Russian puppet or, for that matter, a primitive \"agrarian reformer\" of the kind many in the west imagined the Chinese communists to be. Diverse western Europeans were transfixed by the sight of this urbane and highly competent man, smiling into the cameras as he berated America \u2013 which had refused even to take part in the conference \u2013 and demonstrating his abilities as a regional leader by negotiating ceasefires in Laos, Cambodia and Vietnam. Later in the year, James Cameron would describe Zhou as the man who, in the course of his short visit to Geneva, had produced \"the simultaneous double-effect\" of \"a nervous constriction in the diplomatic hearts and a violent sexual impulse in the persons of almost every European woman who clapped eyes on him\".The flights to Peking began shortly after Zhou's European triumph. From Geneva, as at the Bandung conference the following year, Zhou invited the world to \"come and see\" what was going on behind the bamboo curtain. And Britons were among those who headed for the airport. The Labour leadership sent the opening delegation. Clement Attlee was at its head, accompanied by various other members of the National Executive Committee, including Aneurin Bevan and his former insurance minister Edith Summerskill.The cultural delegation, which comprised Casson, Warner, Ayer and Spencer, together with the geologist Leonard Hawkes and the young sinologist John Chinnery, followed later in the summer. Like the vague statement of friendship in its luggage, its membership had been decided by people close to the Britain-China Friendship Association, who were careful to come up with a group that could not easily be dismissed as communist fellow travellers. A delegation of Labour councillors and shop stewards was recruited at the last minute and guided, very reluctantly, by the communist \"artist-reporter\" Paul Hogarth. He had travelled a lot behind the iron curtain and could not now escape responsibility for chaperoning a very \"third rate\" Labour delegation whose members, as he told me, cared nothing for China new or old, and wanted only to get drunk at somebody else's expense. A more senior delegation of Labour MPs, including Barbara Castle, William Griffiths and various other \"Bevanites\" who had come into the Commons in the 1945 landslide, delayed its departure until early October so that its members could attend the Labour party conference, where they had joined Bevan in objecting, unsuccessfully, to Attlee's support of cold war policies.There were indeed some pilgrims among the travellers, who saw what they and China's presenters wanted them to see \u2013 docilely imbibing tea and statistics, smiling back at children in model nurseries, and sensing only a bright cooperative future in fields fertilised with the blood of murdered landlords. But the Attlee delegation was not like that. Its members had fought their own battles against communism in Britain, and they had been well briefed before leaving. They had also been given a detailed anticipation of the \"show\" they should expect from a collection of Chinese teachers, editors and intellectuals who had moved to Hong Kong. They liked the new marriage laws, the apparent abolition of prostitution, and also the new public health campaigns. As in Moscow, they were, perhaps, a little discomforted as they compared their own achievements while in government in Britain with China's prodigious construction of factories, mines, housing, schools and hospitals. They stood up to Mao over tea, deplored the regime's failure to do anything about the booming birth-rate and also criticised the communist-led government for imposing an absurdly distorted idea of the west on their people. If China really believed that the masses in the west sympathised with communism, and were only held down by an evil ruling class, then they might blunder into another war.Even those with strong communist loyalties tried to reduce China's exclusive reliance on the USSR. Thus, while JD Bernal was known for his mistaken support for the \"proletarian science\" of the bogus geneticist Trofim\u00a0Lysenko, he certainly did not spend his many lectures trying to convince New China's scientists to rely on such Soviet\u00a0models, arguing throughout for\u00a0a renewed exchange between Chinese scientists and their colleagues in the west.It was a similar situation with the artists Paul Hogarth and Denis Mathews. They were both happy to celebrate the liberation and the ongoing reconstruction of China. And yet they were also united in their opposition to the idea that Soviet socialist realism offered an adequate model for the future development of Chinese art. They argued this point forcefully with the artists who welcomed them and accompanied them around the country. Both insisted that it would be far better to consider the new forms of figuration pioneered by Picasso and Guttuso in western Europe.Meanwhile, confusion as well as unexpected light followed from the visitors' habit of applying British analogies to Chinese realities. Attlee himself praised New China's still expanding network of cooperatives, seeing in them the principle of \"voluntary action\" that William Beveridge had insisted was the necessary attendant to the welfare state. The national secretary of the Women's Cooperative Guild, Mabel Ridealgh, likened China's extensive cooperatives to those of her own organisation and joined Castle in comparing China's food distribution system to the Co-op in Britain.Earlier post-liberation visitors had already set about Englishing the new Chinese scene. \"It's the same in Marylebone High Street,\" the veteran actor Miles Malleson had remarked in 1953: he was thinking of New China's appetite for dramas with a contemporary message. Basil Davidson had reserved a different English comparison for a communist group leader in the southern city of Canton. Aware of what the regime's critics said about such watchful cadres, he insisted that she was \"as much a spy on her 50 families as the chairman of my parish council, in rural Essex, is a spy on me\".Hogarth was merely continuing in this line when he declared arriving in Shanghai to be like \"pulling into Manchester from Sheffield\", while Hangchow (Hangzhou) was like \"a South Coast English seaside resort whose better days lay at the beginning of the century\". He found a more original English line on China's revolutionary art. Visiting the Lu Xun museum in Shanghai, he enjoyed the discovery that those stark woodcuts, designed to galvanise illiterate peasants into action against both the Japanese and Chiang Kai-shek's reactionary nationalists, were descended from leafy English scenes portrayed by such far from revolutionary artists as Gwen Raverat, Robert Gibbings and Edward Bawden.There was a characteristically English way of looking at China's notoriously bloody \"agrarian reform\" too. In 1949, Mao had famously proclaimed that the Chinese people had at last \"stood up\", and Hogarth was happy to confirm that claim. His drawing of a \"Shansi peasant\" shows a man standing very upright indeed: clasping the wooden hayfork that rises next to his head, he stares back with a resolute expression that is neither cringing nor deferential.Made in the field, as was this determined artist-reporter's way, Hogarth's drawing evokes an English analogy already employed by Joseph Needham, Davidson and other visitors \u2013 the English Diggers and Levellers of the 17th century, who had torn down fences and set to work digging up the commons land stolen from them under the new Enclosure Acts.It was at once an evasive strategy and a concerted attempt to assert an English tradition uncompromised by a mutually hated British imperialism. Yet it was Spencer who raised the art of being English in New China to its strangest heights. Twenty years earlier, he had recorded the desire to write the story of his life as if it were a wandering \"journey to China\", and he had no sooner landed at the airfield outside Peking than he started peering around in startled recognition: \"As I drove along the roads from the airports to the towns it was almost comic to see these dreams of mine coming true on either side of the road.\" Other delegates cringed as he harassed the guides at various historical sites with peculiar offscript questions, and tormented helpless waiters with requests for fish and chips. As for New China's artists, Spencer had no prescriptions to offer about socialist realism. Instead he informed his audience at the Central Academy of Fine Arts that he was \"possibly the most marvellous visitor to China they had ever had\". He ventured that his visit was \"something on a par with the coming of Buddha\", later explaining that he had felt obliged to emphasise this fact \"because in England if people don't know who I am I am at once called upon to carry heavy suitcases\".Britain's horrified charg\u00e9 d'affaires in Peking, Humphrey Trevelyan, avoided that particular occasion but could not escape the \"fatuous performance\" in which Spencer, Ayer, Warner, Casson and Hawkes, the leader of the cultural delegation, presented their statement of friendship to the minister of culture, Kuo Mo-jo, a man whose purpose was so obviously to \"exploit the word 'peace' for political ends\". Trevelyan was particularly dismayed to hear Spencer \"guilelessly expatiating\" about \"the delights of Formosa\". For Trevelyan, as for Kuo Mo-jo and his colleagues, Formosa was the American-buoyed nationalist island that the communist slogans fiercely insisted was really China's Taiwan. And now here was Spencer blundering on without ever really making it clear that the \"Formosa\" in his mind was actually a little island in the Thames at Cookham, with a creek, a picturesque old house, and a field in which the local Boy Scouts held their musters.Judging from the notes he wrote after returning home, Spencer made very short work of the Great Wall of China too. Indeed, he reduced it to the garden wall along which he had liked to walk as a child in Cookham. He had, as he explained, climbed up by the coal cellar and triumphed over many challenges as he made his way along its length: not the advancing Manchu army, but the leaning lid of the dustbin, the ivy that stretched over some sections, and the protruding branches of cherry, yew and fir that also had to be negotiated over that wall's rather less than 4,000 mile length. Spencer \u2013 who told Zhou that \"I feel at home in China because I feel that Cookham is somewhere near, only just around the corner\" \u2013 was uniquely idiosyncratic, but he was by no means the only delegate who seems to have journeyed to the far side of the world without ever really leaving England behind.As for the future of this attempted rapprochement between Britain and \"New China\", the optimistic \"spirit of Geneva\" evaporated soon enough after the last delegates came home, and the blocs quickly refroze. Yet that moment of hopefulness was not entirely without consequences. Trade between Britain and China was renewed over the years to come, diplomatic relations were established, and cultural exchanges did develop. The Bevanite perspective within the Labour party cannot be said to have thrived, but the insistence on maintaining an independent British stance towards Washington was alive in the 60s, when Harold Wilson refused to commit British forces to America's war in Vietnam. Though insufficient to restrain Tony Blair from joining Bush's invasion of Iraq, it did continue to resound in the heartfelt declamations that the elderly Barbara Castle used to launch against various New Labour policies during her last years in the House of Lords. She informed me in no uncertain terms that the true delinquents of 1954 were those in power who refused to rise to the opportunities of the moment, and certainly not those like herself who went to China with the aim of lifting the bamboo curtain.Of the British artists who went to China in 1954, neither Spencer nor Hogarth would ever return. Mathews, however, would try to maintain the dialogue even as China went through the suppression of the Hundred Flowers campaign, the collectivisation of the briefly \"cooperative\" economy, and the monstrously costly \"Great Leap Forward\". He used his position as secretary of the Contemporary Art Society at the Tate Gallery to promote an exchange of exhibitions. Working directly with Chinese government agencies, he began by organising a survey show of British Graphic Art, which was taken to China by his fellow organiser and artist Richard Carline in 1955. He himself returned in 1960, accompanying an exhibition of recent paintings entitled Sixty Years of British Painting in Oils.He found China to be a very different place. Discussion was discouraged, the circulation of the show was curtailed, and he was prevented from renewing his acquaintance with some of the Chinese artists he had got to know in 1954. Mathews made no progress in his attempt to use the exhibition to create a comparative discussion about aesthetics \u2013 finding himself assailed with dogmatic slogans decreeing that all work produced in China since the liberation of 1949 must be superior to anything produced before, and that no painting of a shrimp, even by the venerated master Qi Baishi, could beat a portrait of Chairman Mao.", "tags": ["History", "Books", "Culture", "Politics", "Society", "China", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China: Behind the bamboo curtain"},{"date": "2010-11-11T12:00:01Z", "country": "china", "content": "It's hard to avoid superlatives when describing China. The country's landmass is enormous, covering roughly 9.6m sq km, with a huge population of some 1.3 billion people. Having recently overtaken Japan as the world's second largest economy, it is well on the way to cementing a dominant position on the global markets. Yet one key fact to understand about China is that these developments are seen as nothing new, but a return to the old order of things. During the Tang dynasty (AD618-907) a census from the year 750 revealed a population of one million within the walls of the capital city, Chang'an, making it the largest city in the world at the time. And it was not just its size that was spectacular. The Chinese capital was probably the most powerful economic centre in the ancient world, attracting traders from the west who travelled along the Silk Road to buy and sell. There were Arabs, Persians and Sogdian traders from Samarkand, whose spiritual needs were served by mosques and Zoroastrian temples in the cosmopolitan city.The Chinese pride themselves on having the longest continuous civilisation in the world, although the massive state we know today took time to develop. From isolated Neolithic settlements scattered across the landmass, the great bronze age cultures of the Shang (c1500\u2013c1050BC) and Zhou (c1050\u2013221BC) developed in the north along the Yellow River. As Zhou polity fell apart, the northern part of China was divided between smaller states, many of which built defensive walls, precursors of the Great Wall. In 221BC, the First Emperor conquered all the other states and established his rule over a unified state stretching from the north of Beijing down to the northern border of the Guangdong province and from the far western Sichuan area to the eastern seaboard. This was most of the China we know today \u2013 in fact the name \"China\" derives from the First Emperor's home state of Qin (pronounced \"Chin\") on the Wei river.The First Emperor quickly established an administration to maintain control of this vast landmass. Armed with legal handbooks, texts inscribed on narrow slips of bamboo, tied together and rolled up like tiny bamboo blinds, his officials established a system of law: they set out official standards for weights and measures that were checked rigorously \u2013 swindling offences were punished with sentences of hard labour on imperial walls and roads \u2013 and they conducted forensic investigations into suspicious deaths. A standardised coinage was also introduced: a new form of a circular coin with a square hole in the middle, which was used for more than 2,000 years until 1911. Even now the shape forms a major decorative emblem in ceramics and textiles.In China, the First Emperor's rule is traditionally remembered as that of an unnecessarily harsh tyrant (contrasting with the \"good guys\" from the Han dynasty). Yet the First Emperor also managed to set up a relatively modern, forward-looking legal system that lasted 2,000 years, whereby trained administrators were sent out all over the country to govern by statute. What was right and what was wrong was now no longer subject to the whim of erratic autocrats, but out there for everyone to see. If you stole a sheep, you knew the consequences. China's legal system was described by Jesuit missionaries in the 18th century and admired by Enlightenment thinkers who saw it as a great improvement on rule by hereditary aristocrats.Furthermore, a legal code was promoted that included a concession about legal responsibility. Unlike in Europe, though, it was not based on a person's age. In China even today, on the doors of buses and beside ticket offices in stations and at tourist sites, there is a metre-high mark, indicating that those under a metre in height can enter or travel for free.Another of the First Emperor's decrees was a standardisation of the Chinese script. Though it had been in use for around two millennia, the script had developed into different local forms during the so-called Spring and Autumn period (770\u2013476BC) and Warring States period (475\u2013221BC). After the rule of the First Emperor, there was some further standardisation during the Han dynasty (206BC\u2013AD220), which created the unifying script that has been used ever since. Though it is clear that the pronunciation of Chinese has changed over the millennia, an educated person can still read Han dynasty texts with a fair amount of ease. The sheer difference of Chinese script from other writing systems \u2013 non-alphabetic, with tens of thousands of separate characters \u2013 is a source of national pride. The status of the art of calligraphy is equal to that of painting and has, at times, been higher. Even Mao Zedong, better known in the west as a communist tyrant bent on destroying traditional Chinese culture, prided himself on the wild, \"grass-style\" calligraphy in which he wrote his poems.With the ancient language came ancient traditions and beliefs. In another pattern established by the First Emperor, it was customary for rulers to travel the country, offering sacrifices on the sacred mountains to appease the gods and please rain-bearing dragons. These tours also enabled the emperors to gain an impression of how well their local officials were administering the country, maintaining the delicate balance between the collection of grain and other goods such as tax, and sustaining the life of the peasants by supplying grain relief in times of shortage and keeping up flood defences along China's turbulent rivers. Though the Ming emperors (AD1368\u20131644) were inclined to stay at home, their successors, the invading Manchus from the north-east who established the Qing dynasty (1644\u20131911), revived the practice with enthusiasm. They particularly favoured southern China with their \"southern tours of inspection\", known as nan xun. The Kangxi emperor (1654\u20131722) and the Qianlong emperor (1711\u20131799) were particularly interested in the south, and in southern food and culture. These northerners from the cold Manchurian plains were particularly impressed by the rich, rice-growing, silk-producing cultural centres of Hangzhou, Suzhou and Wuxi. The Qianlong emperor commissioned a copy of the Jichangyuan (Garden of Ease of Mind) in Wuxi to be constructed in the Summer Palace outside Beijing, where it can still be seen today. Both emperors enjoyed southern food so much they retrained their personal cooks \u2013 southern fruits such as lychees and mangoes were soon shipped up the Grand Canal for the imperial kitchens.A more sinister aspect of the traditional respect for language and script is China's long tradition of censorship. It is said that in 213BC, the First Emperor, enraged by conservative critics, ordered a great bonfire in which ancient Confucian texts were destroyed. In 1772, as part of a massive collection of texts to form a huge imperial encyclopaedia, the Qianlong emperor also instructed his officials to seek out seditious works that criticised Manchu rule in what became known as \"the literary inquisition of Qianlong\". During the Cultural Revolution (1966\u20131976) in a bid to destroy the \"four olds\" \u2013 old customs, culture, habits and ideas \u2013 vast quantities of books, paintings, family photographs and works of art were destroyed in a campaign that was remarkably similar to that of the First Emperor's burning of the books.The technological innovations of China's past not only enabled the construction of massive canal networks for transport and improved agricultural techniques but also helped make possible complex and beautiful art objects. They range from the dramatic bronzes of the Shang and Zhou, through the three-coloured ceramic camels of the Tang and the monochrome elegance of Song porcelains (960\u20131279), to the embroidered robes of the Qing. Museums all over the world display aspects of China's artistic achievements. Many demonstrate the ingenuity of China's craftsmen, often working without external stimuli but making their own discoveries. The massive bronzes of 3,000 years ago are unlike those found anywhere else in the world. They were made not by the lost-wax process but in ceramic moulds \u2013 testimony to the skill of the ceramic workers as well as the bronze founders. Porcelain was made in China and perfected a thousand years before European ceramicists groped their way towards the secret of its manufacture. Silk cultivation and weaving were invented in China many thousands of years ago: cut silk cocoons have been discovered in Neolithic sites and silk fabrics survive from Warring States tombs. Silk is probably China's most magical export: a fine yet strong material that was exported along the Silk Road to Rome in the second century BC. The Romans mistakenly believed that it was combed from trees, so the secret of its origin and production were not known outside China until AD522, when production began in Byzantium. Porcelain began to be exported from China in great quantities in the late Tang dynasty and, as European ships began to arrive, first in south-east Asia and eventually in 17th century China, porcelain became a very popular commodity, with European houses filling up with blue and white dishes and bowls.Technological achievements such as gunpowder and the maritime compass are often cited as some of China's most influential gifts to the world. Yet perhaps the greatest legacy was the invention of paper, an essential prerequisite for printing and mass production. Paper and printing were both invented in China \u2013 archaeologists have found paper remains from the second century BC, though according to the standard history of the Han dynasty, the first official mention of the technology was in AD\u00a0105 when the imperial factories officially reported its production to the emperor. Used to make rubbings of significant stone inscriptions such as the Confucian classics in the second century AD, the mass production of paper must have played a part in the invention of woodblock printing in China in about the sixth century, opening up the possibility of cheap mass communication long before Gutenberg's invention of the printing press in Europe. Like silk, paper was used along the Silk Road from the third century BC and by the 10th century had reached Sicily and Spain through the Arab conquests.Paradoxically, even though Chinese products spread across the world to great acclaim, the country itself was little known outside Asia. The arrival of the western nations, intent on trade, coincided with China's decline in the 19th and 20th centuries, a period that now looks like a very short blip in China's long history of economic and cultural success. The decline was internal, caused by expensive wars waged by the Qing emperors, by population growth and a failure to maintain local order. And it was exacerbated by the impatient pressure of western traders, culminating in the two Opium Wars (1839\u20131842 and 1856).The 20th century saw a disastrous period of division and the cruel Japanese invasion, followed by a civil war, after which Mao Zedong and the Communist Party took power in 1949. Since the death of Mao in 1976, new policies have seen the gradual growth of China to its present economic success.Despite its cultural heritage and the dramatic performance of the national economy, and perhaps partly because of the knocks it took in the Cultural Revolution, China has been slow to recover confidence after 200 years of disaster and disunion. There is a widespread tendency to dwell on the humiliation of the Opium Wars, and to regard any setback as a further humiliation of the same sort. China's failure to secure the 2000 and 2004 Olympic Games still rankles, despite the extraordinary spectacle of the 2008 Beijing Olympics. Even the existence of Chinese porcelain in European museums is sometimes resented and regarded as loot even though the vast majority of the pieces were acquired quite legitimately.As China's economy takes off, perhaps sensitivity to 19th century humiliations can be overcome by pride in the earlier past. Occasionally one gets a glance of the self-belief that China's ancient memory can engender. In the 1980s, I met an old monk on the Buddhist mountain of Jiuhua Shan. \"England...\" he said after I had introduced myself. \"You have a queen, don't you? She must be very old by now\". Only as I started my descent did I realise that he had been thinking of Queen Victoria.Frances Wood is head of the Chinese department at the British Library. Her publications include Did Marco Polo Go To China?, The Silk Road, The First Emperor and The Diamond Sutra", "tags": ["Culture", "China", "Archaeology", "Science", "World news", "Art and design", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "The Ancient World | China"},{"date": "2010-10-13T12:00:03Z", "country": "china", "content": "Dear members of the standing committee of the National People's Congress:Article 35 of China's constitution as adopted in 1982 clearly states that: \"Citizens of the People's Republic of China enjoy freedom of speech, of the press, of assembly, of association, of procession and of demonstration.\" For 28 years this article has stood unrealised, having been negated by detailed rules and regulations for \"implementation\". This false democracy of formal avowal and concrete denial has become a scandalous mark on the history of world democracy.On 26 February 2003, at a meeting of democratic consultation between the standing committee of the political bureau of the central committee of the Chinese Communist party and democratic parties, not long after President Hu Jintao assumed office, he stated clearly: \"The removal of restrictions on the press, and the opening up of public opinion positions, is a mainstream view and demand held by society; it is natural, and should be resolved through the legislative process. If the Communist party does not reform itself, if it does not transform, it will lose its vitality and move toward natural and inevitable extinction.\"On 3 October, America's Cable News Network (CNN) aired an interview with Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao by anchor Fareed Zakaria. Responding to the journalist's questions, Wen said: \"Freedom of speech is indispensable for any nation; China's constitution endows the people with freedom of speech; the demands of the people for democracy cannot be resisted.\"In accord with China's constitution, and in the spirit of the remarks made by Hu and Wen, we hereupon represent the following concerning the materialisation of the constitutional rights to freedom of speech and of the press.We have for 61 years \"served as master\" in the name of the citizens of the People's Republic of China. But the freedom of speech and of the press we now enjoy is inferior even to that of Hong Kong before its return to Chinese sovereignty, to that entrusted to the residents of a colony.Before the handover, Hong Kong was a British colony, governed by those appointed by the Queen's government. But the freedom of speech and freedom of the press given to residents of Hong Kong by the British authorities there was not empty, appearing only on paper. It was enacted and realised.When our country was founded in 1949, our people cried that they had been liberated, that they were not their own masters. Mao Zedong said that \"from this moment, the people of China have stood\". But even today, 61 years after the founding of our nation, after 30 years of opening and reform, we have not yet attained freedom of speech and freedom of the press to the degree enjoyed by the people of Hong Kong under colonial rule. Even now, many books discussing political and current affairs must be published in Hong Kong. This is not something that dates from the [territory's] return, but is merely an old tactic familiar under colonial rule. The \"master\" status of the people of China's mainland is so inferior. For our nation to advertise itself as having \"socialist democracy\" with Chinese characteristics is such an embarrassment.Not only the average citizen, but even the most senior leaders of the Communist party have no freedom of speech or press. Recently, Li Rui met with the following circumstance. Not long ago, the Collected Works in Memory of Zhou Xiaozhou were published, and it originally included an essay commemorating Zhou that Li had written for the People's Daily in 1981. Zhou's wife phoned Li to explain the situation: \"Beijing has sent out a notice. Li Rui's writings cannot be published.\" What incredible folly it is that an old piece of writing from a party newspaper cannot be included in a volume of collected works! Li said: \"What kind of country is this?! I want to cry it out: the press must be free! Such strangling of the people's freedom of expression is entirely illegal!\"It's not even just high-level leaders \u2013 even the premier of our country does not have freedom of speech or of the press. On 21 August 2010, Wen gave a speech in Shenzhen called, \"Only by pushing ahead with reforms can our nation have bright prospects.\" He said: \"We must not only push economic reforms, but also promote political reforms. Without the protection afforded by political reforms, the gains we have made from economic reforms will be lost, and our goal of modernisation cannot be realised.\" Xinhua news agency's official news release on 21 August, \"Building a beautiful future for the special economic zone\", omitted the content in Wen's speech dealing with political reform.On 22 September, Wen held a dialogue in New York with American Chinese media and media from Hong Kong and Macao, and again emphasised the importance of \"political system reforms\". Wen said: \"Concerning political reforms, I have said previously that if economic reforms are without the protection to be gained by political reforms, then we cannot be entirely successful, and even perhaps the gains of our progress so far will be lost.\" Shortly after, Wen addressed the 65th session of the United Nations general assembly, giving a speech called \"Recognising a true China\", in which he spoke again about political reform. Late on 23 September, these events were reported on China Central Television's Xinwen Lianbo and in an official news release from Xinhua news agency. They reported only Wen's remarks on the circumstances facing overseas Chinese, and on the importance of overseas Chinese media. His mentions of political reform were all removed.For these matters, if we endeavour to find those responsible, we are utterly incapable of putting our finger on a specific person. This is the work of invisible hands. For their own reasons, they violate our constitution, often ordering by telephone that the works of such and such a person cannot be published, or that such and such an event cannot be reported in the media. The officials who make the call do not leave their names, and the secrecy of the agents is protected, but you must heed their phone instructions. These invisible hands are our central propaganda department. Right now the department is placed above the central committee of the Communist party, and above the state council. We would ask, what right does the central propaganda department have to muzzle the speech of the premier? What right does it have to rob the people of our nation of their right to know what the premier has said?Our core demand is that the system of censorship be dismantled in favour of a system of legal responsibility.The rights to freedom of speech and the press guaranteed in article 35 of our constitution are turned into mere adornments for the walls by means of concrete implementation rules such as the \"ordinance on publishing control\". These implementation rules are, broadly speaking, a system of censorship and approvals. There are countless numbers of commandments and taboos restricting freedom of speech and freedom of the press. The creation of a press law and the abolishment of the censorship system has already become an urgent task before us.We recommend that the National People's Congress work immediately toward the creation of a press law, and that the ordinance on publishing control and local restrictions on news and publishing be annulled. Institutionally speaking, the realisation of freedom of speech and freedom of the press as guaranteed in the constitution means making media independent of the party and government organs that presently control them, thereby transforming \"party mouthpieces\" into \"public instruments.\"Therefore, the foundation of the creation of a press law must be the enacting of a system of [post facto] legal responsibility [determined according to fair laws]. We cannot again strengthen the censorship system in the name of \"strengthening the leadership of the party\". The so-called censorship system is the system by which prior to publication one must receive the approval of party organs, allowing for publication only after approval and designating all unapproved published materials as illegal. The so-called system of legal responsibility means that published materials need not pass through approval by party or government organs, but may be published as soon as the editor-in-chief deems fit. If there are unfavourable outcomes or disputes following publication, the government would be able to intervene and determine according to the law whether there are cases of wrongdoing.In countries around the world, the development of rule of law in news and publishing has followed this path, making a transition from systems of censorship to systems of legal responsibility. There is little doubt that systems of legal responsibility mark progress over systems of censorship, and this is greatly in the favour of the development of the humanities and natural sciences, and in promoting social harmony and historical progress. England did away with censorship in 1695. France abolished its censorship system in 1881, and the publication of newspapers and periodicals thereafter required only a simple declaration, which was signed by the representatives of the publication and mailed to the office of the procurator of the republic. Our present system of censorship leaves news and book publishing in our country 315 years behind England and 129 years behind France.1. Abolish sponsoring institutions of [Chinese] media, allowing publishing institutions to operate independently; and truly implement a system in which directors and editors-in-chief are responsible for their publication units.2. Respect journalists and make them strong. Journalists should be the \"uncrowned kings\". The reporting of mass incidents and exposing of official corruption are noble missions on behalf of the people, and this work should be protected and supported. Immediately put a stop to the unconstitutional behaviour of various local governments and police in arresting journalists. Look into the circumstances behind the case of writer Xie Chaoping. Liang Fengmin, the party secretary of Weinan city [involved in the Xie Chaoping case] must face party discipline as a warning to others.3. Abolish restrictions on extra-territorial supervision by public opinion by the media, ensuring the right of journalists to carry out reporting freely throughout the country.4. The internet is an important discussion platform for information in our society and citizens' views. Aside from information that truly concerns our national secrets and speech that violates a citizen's right to privacy, internet regulatory bodies must not arbitrarily delete online posts and online comments. Online spies must be abolished, the \"fifty-cent party\" must be abolished, and restrictions on anti-censorship technologies must be abolished.5. There are no more taboos concerning our party's history. Chinese citizens have a right to know the errors of the ruling party.6. Southern Weekly and Yanhuang Chunqiu should be permitted to restructure as privately operated pilot programmes in the independent media. The privatisation of newspapers and periodicals is the natural direction of political reforms. History teaches us: when rulers and deliberators are highly unified, when the government and the media are both surnamed \"party\", and when the party sings for its own pleasure, it is difficult to connect with the will of the people and attain true leadership. From the time of the great leap forward to the time of the cultural revolution, newspapers, magazines, television and radio in the mainland have never truly reflected the will of the people. Party and government leaders have been insensible to dissenting voices, so they have had difficulty in recognising and correcting wholesale errors. For a ruling party and government to use the tax money of the people to run media that sing their own praises is something not permitted in democratic nations.7. Permit the free circulation within the mainland of books and periodicals from Hong Kong and Macao. Our country has joined the World Trade Organisation, and economically we have already integrated with the world \u2013 attempting to remain closed culturally goes against the course already plotted for opening and reform. Hong Kong and Macao offer advanced culture right at our nation's door, and the books and periodicals of Hong Kong and Macao are welcomed and trusted by the people.8. Transform the functions of various propaganda organs, so that they are transformed from agencies setting down so many \"taboos\" to agencies protecting the accuracy, timeliness and unimpeded flow of information; from agencies that assist corrupt officials in suppressing and controlling stories that reveal the truth to agencies that support the media in monitoring party and government organs; from agencies that close publications, fire editors and arrest journalists to agencies that oppose power and protect media and journalists. Our propaganda organs have a horrid reputation within the party and in society. They must work for good in order to regain their reputations. At the appropriate time, we can consider renaming these propaganda organs to suit global trends.We represent ourselves, hoping for your utmost attention.Signed:Li Rui, former standing vice minister of the organisation department of the CCP central committee, member of the 12th central committee of the CCPHu Jiwei, former director of People's Daily, standing committee member to the 7th National People's Congress, director of the Federation of Chinese Communication InstitutesJiang Ping, former head of the China University of Political Science and Law, tenured professor, standing committee member to the 7th National People's Congress, deputy director of the executive law committee of the NPCLi Pu, former deputy director of Xinhua news agencyZhou Shaoming, former deputy director of the political department of the Guangzhou military area commandZhong Peizhang, former head of the news office of the central propaganda departmentWang Yongcheng, professor at Shanghai Jiaotong UniversityZhang Zhongpei, researcher at the Imperial Palace museum, chairman of the China Archaeological SocietyDu Guang, former professor at the Central Party SchoolGuo Daojun, former editor-in-chief of China Legal ScienceXiao Mo, former head of the Architecture Research Centre of the Chinese National Academy of ArtsZhuang Puming, former deputy director of People's PressHu Fuchen, former director and editor-in-chief at China Worker's Publishing HouseZhang Ding, former director of the China Social Sciences Press at the Chinese Academy of Social SciencesYu You, former editor-in-chief of China DailyOuyang Jin, former editor-in-chief of Hong Kong's Pacific magazineYu Haocheng, former director of Masses Publishing HouseZhang Qing, former director of China Cinema Publishing HouseYu Yueting, former director of Fujian Television, veteran journalistSha Yexin, former head of the Shanghai People's Art and Drama Academy, now an independent writer of the Hui ethnic minoritySun Xupei, former director of the News Research Institute at the Chinese Academy of Social SciencesXin Ziling, former director of the editorial desk at China National Defence UniversityTie Liu, editor-in-chief of Wangshi Weihen magazine (Scars of the Past).Legal Counsel\uff1aSong Yue, Chinese citizen, practicing lawyer in the State of New York, USThis translation was made by the University of Hong Kong's China Media Project and was first posted here.", "tags": ["China", "Freedom of speech", "Censorship", "Civil liberties - international", "Journalist safety", "Communism", "Media", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China must abandon censorship | Open letter"},{"date": "2010-12-14T12:16:12Z", "country": "china", "content": "Dirty tricks by multinationals, political corruption and the erosion of an African success story have been among the stories that have emerged from the leaked US embassy cables over the past fortnight.The leaked cables, published by WikiLeaks, say that drug company Pfizer hired investigators to find evidence of corruption on the Nigerian attorney general to persuade him to drop legal action over a controversial meningitis drug trial.The cables also highlight rampant corruption in Kenya that threatens to push the country towards violence on a scale worse than that seen after the 2008 presidential election, and uncovers the scale of influence the oil giant Shell wields in Nigeria.Meanwhile, the Ugandan president's \"autocratic tendencies\" come under scrutiny, which, along with corruption, a population explosion and \"sharpening ethnic divisions\" is ruining Uganda's image as an African success story.Coinciding with the publication of his book Beyond the Crash, Madeleine Bunting examines Gordon Brown's passion for development, which seems at odds with his enthusiasm for globalisation, and asks if Britain's former prime minister is vying for a top job at the IMF.Jonathan Glennie argues that while African leaders may prefer to deal with China, rather than the US and Europe, any money from Beijing will still come with strings attached.And Kelly Nicholls writes about the publication of a report that reveals the hidden human tragedy of the 30,000 \"disappeared\" in Colombia.Later this week, we'll launch this month's Global development Focus podcast, which will explore the involvement of celebrities in aid and development. Visit our Talk point section and tell us which celebrities you think do the most good, or the most harm, and nominate those you think we should discuss in the podcast, which will be recorded on Thursday.To mark the Global development website's first Christmas, we'll be publishing a quiz over the festive period to test your knowledge of our coverage of the issues over the past four months.And with 2011 just around the corner, we'll look back at what 2010 did for global development, and look ahead to what the new year could bring.Gallery: South Sudan: the challenge ahead. In January, south Sudan votes on whether to split from the north. National Geographic photographer Karen Kasmasuki, who works with the humanitarian organisation Cafod, visited Sudan and examines the challenges that lie ahead, regardless of the outcome of the referendum.Video: Mozambique: Changing weather patterns and livelihoods. Weather in the Zambezi flood plain has become so unpredictable that subsistence farmers in Mozambique are having to adapt and diversify into different livelihoods.Video: Child labourers on Malawi's tobacco farms. Vulnerable children are being exposed to hazardous working conditions in the tobacco industry. It is estimated that more than 78,000 children work on tobacco estates across Malawi, some up to 12 hours a day, many for less than 1p an hour.On the Talk point article asking for views on the involvement of celebrities in global development, a senior NGO communications manager, who wished to remain anonymous, said:On a blog about tax payments in poor countries, Poverty Focus writes:On Richard Mallett's blog on why aid should not be used to meet the UK's security agenda, NickYoung writes:On AidWatch, William Eastely compares the campaigning credentials of John Lennon and Bono and ponders the \"death of the celebrity activist\".Owen Barder responds to the World Bank's Shanta Devarajan on whether increased social accountability is the answer to \"Development 3.0\".Rachel Godfrey Wood, of the IIED, speculates on the Due South blog, on Iran \"sleep-walking\" towards a progressive universal income grant.", "tags": ["Global development"], "title": "Corruption, China and Gordon Brown"},{"date": "2010-12-03T16:19:27Z", "country": "china", "content": "China's English-language newspaper, China Daily, appeared on newsstands across Europe today.The special weekly issue is being distributed in nine European countries. It follows the launch of similar editions in the United States and Hong Kong.Renzhong Zhi, general manager of China Daily UK, said: \"We identified a gap to provide a useful source of news and analysis to European businesses seeking to better understand and engage with China.\"As more partnerships develop between China and the West, it is crucial that there exists a regular source of insight on changing trends.\"He explained that there would be some breaking news, but the majority of the paper would seek \"to provide a more in-depth review of headlines of the week \u2013 a useful guide to help readers understand the emerging opportunities that exist between China and Europe.\"There is a website here Source: Bell Pottinger press release", "tags": ["Media", "China", "Newspapers", "World news", "Europe", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China Daily launches Europe issue"},{"date": "2010-11-18T12:22:13Z", "country": "china", "content": "China today denied US allegations that it \"hijacked\" highly sensitive internet traffic \u2013 including emails sent to and from US military websites \u2013 earlier this year.A state-owned telecoms company in China had access to 15% of global internet traffic, including confidential emails from Nasa and the US army, for 18 minutes in April, according to an annual security report delivered to the US congress on Wednesday.The report warned that the capture \"could enable severe malicious activities\" by China. The state-owned company accused of \"hijacking\" the encrypted information, China Telecom, today denied \"any hijack of internet traffic\".Online security experts say the capture represents \"one of the biggest hijacks\" of sensitive information in the history of the internet.Relations between China and the US \u2013 number one and two in the world, respectively, in terms of internet users \u2013 have long been fraught when it comes to the web.Earlier this year US technology giant Google said it was to stop censoring results on its Chinese search engine, following a sophisticated and allegedly state-sponsored cyber attack directed at the company. China earlier accused the US of making \"groundless accusations\" about restrictions on internet freedom against the country.The US report said that some 15% of global internet traffic was routed through Chinese servers earlier this year, prompting worries that the country now has access to sensitive correspondence from US government bodies. US commissioner Larry Wortzel raised concerns on Wednesday that China would now \"get the internet addresses of everybody that communicated\" with the US armed services' chiefs of staff.The rerouting began at a smaller Chinese ISP called IDC China before being passed on to China Telecom, the report compiled by the US-China economic and security review commission claimed. Encrypted correspondence from the US senate, the department of defence and \"many others\" were among the huge amount of traffic captured by China.Dmitri Alperovitch, a threat research analyst at internet security firm McAfee, said the capture \"is one of the biggest \u2013 if not the biggest hijacks \u2013 we have ever seen\".\"No one except China Telecom operators\" know what happened to the traffic during those 18 minutes, Alperovitch added. \"The possibilities are numerous and troubling, but definitive answers are unknown.\"", "tags": ["Internet", "Data and computer security", "Technology", "China", "World news", "Digital media", "Media", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China denies 'hijacking' internet traffic"},{"date": "2010-10-29T23:07:47Z", "country": "china", "content": "On 1 October 1954, Sir Hugh Casson, the urbane professor of interior design who had been director of architecture at the Festival of Britain, found himself standing by the Tiananmen Gate in the ancient and still walled city of Peking. In China to present a statement of friendship signed by nearly 700 British scientists and artists, he was watching a parade that the reporter James Cameron reckoned to be \"the greatest show on earth\". First came the troops and the \"military ironwork\", grinding past for a full hour. This was followed by a much longer civil parade in which the people marched by in barely imaginable numbers, beaming with joy at their elevated leaders who gazed back with the slightly \"subdued\" expression of still unaccustomed new emperors.Float after float rolled by, showing model factories and locomotives. Children released balloons and elastic-powered model aeroplanes; the masses united to cry \"Down with American imperialism\"; and Picasso's peace dove was everywhere. Having recently migrated from earlier European congresses, this simplified bird appeared to have usurped the traditional dragons of Peking.The spectacle with which China celebrated the fifth anniversary of the communist liberation was brilliantly organised, as Casson felt obliged to admit. He was less impressed by the admiring expressions worn by many of the other international guests: \"Gold-rimmed spectacles misted with emotion, cheeks creased with years of well-meant service in this cause or in that, shirts defiantly open at the neck, badges in lapels, and there in the middle \u2013 could it have been? \u2013 an MCC tie.\"That particular specimen was Ivor Montagu, a cricket-loving friend and translator of the great Soviet film-maker Sergei Eisenstein. He was also a table tennis champion who preferred \"New China's\" disciplined \"physical jerks\" to the indolence of a capitalist world in which \"rich men\" disdained even walking as \"something you paid those less fortunate to do on your behalf\". And he was by no means alone in his enthusiasm for \"New China\".Sickened by the rapture of the communist regime's ardent western friends, Casson quickly retreated to the shaded \"rest room\" beneath the viewing stand. Here he lingered among yellow-robed Tibetan lamas, sipping tea and exchanging impressions with other doubtful Britons: the classically minded and no longer Marxist novelist and poet Rex Warner, and AJ Ayer, the high-living logical positivist who would come home to tell the BBC that China's parade had reminded him of the Nuremberg rallies. They may also have caught a fleeting glimpse of the Marxist crystallographer JD Bernal, who had no MCC tie but was sporting his Stalin prize medal, collected in Moscow on the way to China. Bernal was full of admiration for New China and its celebrations, but as hour followed hour he too descended from the stand to spend a moment \"sipping orange juice through a straw\" at the same table as the dalai lama.Enraptured or appalled, none of these British witnesses appears to have regretted the absence of Stanley Spencer. The 63-year-old painter, so famously associated with the little Berkshire village of Cookham, had managed to escape the entire show \u2013 thanks, he later explained, to \"some Mongolians\", whose timely arrival at the hotel that morning had provided the cover under which he retreated upstairs to his room.It was the discovery that Spencer had been to China that persuaded me to look further into this forgotten episode. I soon realised that an extraordinary assortment of Britons had made their way to China in 1954, including the former prime minister and leader of the Labour Party, Clement Attlee. And all this nearly two decades before 1972, when President Nixon made the stage-managed and \u2013 even before John Adams got hold of it \u2013 distinctly operatic visit that has gone down in history as the moment when the west entered rapprochement with the People's Republic of China. Were these motley British visitors just credulous idiots, for whom \"Red China\" was another version of the legendary Cathay? That is what the 24-year-old Douglas Hurd and the other diplomats in the British embassy compound in Peking appear to have suspected of these unwelcome freeloaders. Or was something more significant going on?Nowadays, the rapidly increasing number of British travellers to China think nothing of getting on a plane to fly directly there. Yet Spencer had good reason to feel \"trembly\" as he and the five other members of his entirely unofficial cultural delegation approached the runway at Heathrow on 14 September 1954. Though Britain had recognised China a few months after the liberation, it had yet to establish proper diplomatic relations with the communist-led government, and the embarking Britons couldn't pick up a visa until they had reached Prague. That meant crossing the iron curtain dividing Europe. \"Did you go under or over it?\" one joker would later ask, making light of a passage that was actually more like falling over the edge of the known world. The travellers then had to fly across east Europe, pausing at Minsk and Moscow before heading across Siberia and then Mongolia \u2013 all the time relying on their hosts to finance, accommodate and entertain them, and also to provide the vibrating twin-prop planes in which they would hop to the far side of the world, landing every three hours or so to refuel.\"There are bears in there,\" Spencer mused, glancing anxiously down into a nameless Soviet forest at a moment when the engine sputtered \"Fit! Fit! Fit!\" There were troubles at home too. The cold war was entrenched, its dangers exacerbated by the advance of nuclear weaponry on both sides. Britain, meanwhile, was financially straitened, and reliant on loans from America, which demanded adherence to Washington's hard-line foreign policy including its trade embargoes against Russia and China. Under these circumstances, it was by no means just a handful of disgruntled communists and export-hungry businessmen who yearned to make Britain's political outlook more independent. The loss of power gave a distinctly anti-American resonance to the patriotic lament of Shakespeare's John of Gaunt \u2013 that \"This England\" should ever be \"leas'd\u00a0out . . . Like to a tenement, or pelting\u00a0farm\".China remained hostile and isolated behind the recently lowered \"bamboo curtain\". Nevertheless, by the beginning of 1954 a thaw had begun to seem possible. Stalin had died in March 1953, and the Korean war had been brought to a ceasefire not long afterwards. There were indications that Moscow and its Chinese ally might be interested in making more than a slogan out of \"peaceful coexistence\" with the west. It was, however, France's losing war in the area then known as \"French Indo-China\" that persuaded many in western Europe to adopt a more optimistic view of \"New China\" than President Eisenhower's bomb-wreathed \"domino theory\" of Asia's imminent fall to communism.On the morning of Saturday 24 April, the Chinese prime minister and foreign secretary, Zhou Enlai, flew into Geneva from Moscow. He came at the head of a large Chinese delegation to join France, Britain and Russia in a conference aimed at finding a settlement to the Indo-China war. Previously, west Europeans had known the Chinese leader only through anti-communist stereotypes, or the equally partisan hymns of praise issued by witnesses such as Hewlett Johnson, the inordinately optimistic \"Red Dean of Canterbury\".But here he now was, anything but a Russian puppet or, for that matter, a primitive \"agrarian reformer\" of the kind many in the west imagined the Chinese communists to be. Diverse western Europeans were transfixed by the sight of this urbane and highly competent man, smiling into the cameras as he berated America \u2013 which had refused even to take part in the conference \u2013 and demonstrating his abilities as a regional leader by negotiating ceasefires in Laos, Cambodia and Vietnam. Later in the year, James Cameron would describe Zhou as the man who, in the course of his short visit to Geneva, had produced \"the simultaneous double-effect\" of \"a nervous constriction in the diplomatic hearts and a violent sexual impulse in the persons of almost every European woman who clapped eyes on him\".The flights to Peking began shortly after Zhou's European triumph. From Geneva, as at the Bandung conference the following year, Zhou invited the world to \"come and see\" what was going on behind the bamboo curtain. And Britons were among those who headed for the airport. The Labour leadership sent the opening delegation. Clement Attlee was at its head, accompanied by various other members of the National Executive Committee, including Aneurin Bevan and his former insurance minister Edith Summerskill.The cultural delegation, which comprised Casson, Warner, Ayer and Spencer, together with the geologist Leonard Hawkes and the young sinologist John Chinnery, followed later in the summer. Like the vague statement of friendship in its luggage, its membership had been decided by people close to the Britain-China Friendship Association, who were careful to come up with a group that could not easily be dismissed as communist fellow travellers. A delegation of Labour councillors and shop stewards was recruited at the last minute and guided, very reluctantly, by the communist \"artist-reporter\" Paul Hogarth. He had travelled a lot behind the iron curtain and could not now escape responsibility for chaperoning a very \"third rate\" Labour delegation whose members, as he told me, cared nothing for China new or old, and wanted only to get drunk at somebody else's expense. A more senior delegation of Labour MPs, including Barbara Castle, William Griffiths and various other \"Bevanites\" who had come into the Commons in the 1945 landslide, delayed its departure until early October so that its members could attend the Labour party conference, where they had joined Bevan in objecting, unsuccessfully, to Attlee's support of cold war policies.There were indeed some pilgrims among the travellers, who saw what they and China's presenters wanted them to see \u2013 docilely imbibing tea and statistics, smiling back at children in model nurseries, and sensing only a bright cooperative future in fields fertilised with the blood of murdered landlords. But the Attlee delegation was not like that. Its members had fought their own battles against communism in Britain, and they had been well briefed before leaving. They had also been given a detailed anticipation of the \"show\" they should expect from a collection of Chinese teachers, editors and intellectuals who had moved to Hong Kong. They liked the new marriage laws, the apparent abolition of prostitution, and also the new public health campaigns. As in Moscow, they were, perhaps, a little discomforted as they compared their own achievements while in government in Britain with China's prodigious construction of factories, mines, housing, schools and hospitals. They stood up to Mao over tea, deplored the regime's failure to do anything about the booming birth-rate and also criticised the communist-led government for imposing an absurdly distorted idea of the west on their people. If China really believed that the masses in the west sympathised with communism, and were only held down by an evil ruling class, then they might blunder into another war.Even those with strong communist loyalties tried to reduce China's exclusive reliance on the USSR. Thus, while JD Bernal was known for his mistaken support for the \"proletarian science\" of the bogus geneticist Trofim\u00a0Lysenko, he certainly did not spend his many lectures trying to convince New China's scientists to rely on such Soviet\u00a0models, arguing throughout for\u00a0a renewed exchange between Chinese scientists and their colleagues in the west.It was a similar situation with the artists Paul Hogarth and Denis Mathews. They were both happy to celebrate the liberation and the ongoing reconstruction of China. And yet they were also united in their opposition to the idea that Soviet socialist realism offered an adequate model for the future development of Chinese art. They argued this point forcefully with the artists who welcomed them and accompanied them around the country. Both insisted that it would be far better to consider the new forms of figuration pioneered by Picasso and Guttuso in western Europe.Meanwhile, confusion as well as unexpected light followed from the visitors' habit of applying British analogies to Chinese realities. Attlee himself praised New China's still expanding network of cooperatives, seeing in them the principle of \"voluntary action\" that William Beveridge had insisted was the necessary attendant to the welfare state. The national secretary of the Women's Cooperative Guild, Mabel Ridealgh, likened China's extensive cooperatives to those of her own organisation and joined Castle in comparing China's food distribution system to the Co-op in Britain.Earlier post-liberation visitors had already set about Englishing the new Chinese scene. \"It's the same in Marylebone High Street,\" the veteran actor Miles Malleson had remarked in 1953: he was thinking of New China's appetite for dramas with a contemporary message. Basil Davidson had reserved a different English comparison for a communist group leader in the southern city of Canton. Aware of what the regime's critics said about such watchful cadres, he insisted that she was \"as much a spy on her 50 families as the chairman of my parish council, in rural Essex, is a spy on me\".Hogarth was merely continuing in this line when he declared arriving in Shanghai to be like \"pulling into Manchester from Sheffield\", while Hangchow (Hangzhou) was like \"a South Coast English seaside resort whose better days lay at the beginning of the century\". He found a more original English line on China's revolutionary art. Visiting the Lu Xun museum in Shanghai, he enjoyed the discovery that those stark woodcuts, designed to galvanise illiterate peasants into action against both the Japanese and Chiang Kai-shek's reactionary nationalists, were descended from leafy English scenes portrayed by such far from revolutionary artists as Gwen Raverat, Robert Gibbings and Edward Bawden.There was a characteristically English way of looking at China's notoriously bloody \"agrarian reform\" too. In 1949, Mao had famously proclaimed that the Chinese people had at last \"stood up\", and Hogarth was happy to confirm that claim. His drawing of a \"Shansi peasant\" shows a man standing very upright indeed: clasping the wooden hayfork that rises next to his head, he stares back with a resolute expression that is neither cringing nor deferential.Made in the field, as was this determined artist-reporter's way, Hogarth's drawing evokes an English analogy already employed by Joseph Needham, Davidson and other visitors \u2013 the English Diggers and Levellers of the 17th century, who had torn down fences and set to work digging up the commons land stolen from them under the new Enclosure Acts.It was at once an evasive strategy and a concerted attempt to assert an English tradition uncompromised by a mutually hated British imperialism. Yet it was Spencer who raised the art of being English in New China to its strangest heights. Twenty years earlier, he had recorded the desire to write the story of his life as if it were a wandering \"journey to China\", and he had no sooner landed at the airfield outside Peking than he started peering around in startled recognition: \"As I drove along the roads from the airports to the towns it was almost comic to see these dreams of mine coming true on either side of the road.\" Other delegates cringed as he harassed the guides at various historical sites with peculiar offscript questions, and tormented helpless waiters with requests for fish and chips. As for New China's artists, Spencer had no prescriptions to offer about socialist realism. Instead he informed his audience at the Central Academy of Fine Arts that he was \"possibly the most marvellous visitor to China they had ever had\". He ventured that his visit was \"something on a par with the coming of Buddha\", later explaining that he had felt obliged to emphasise this fact \"because in England if people don't know who I am I am at once called upon to carry heavy suitcases\".Britain's horrified charg\u00e9 d'affaires in Peking, Humphrey Trevelyan, avoided that particular occasion but could not escape the \"fatuous performance\" in which Spencer, Ayer, Warner, Casson and Hawkes, the leader of the cultural delegation, presented their statement of friendship to the minister of culture, Kuo Mo-jo, a man whose purpose was so obviously to \"exploit the word 'peace' for political ends\". Trevelyan was particularly dismayed to hear Spencer \"guilelessly expatiating\" about \"the delights of Formosa\". For Trevelyan, as for Kuo Mo-jo and his colleagues, Formosa was the American-buoyed nationalist island that the communist slogans fiercely insisted was really China's Taiwan. And now here was Spencer blundering on without ever really making it clear that the \"Formosa\" in his mind was actually a little island in the Thames at Cookham, with a creek, a picturesque old house, and a field in which the local Boy Scouts held their musters.Judging from the notes he wrote after returning home, Spencer made very short work of the Great Wall of China too. Indeed, he reduced it to the garden wall along which he had liked to walk as a child in Cookham. He had, as he explained, climbed up by the coal cellar and triumphed over many challenges as he made his way along its length: not the advancing Manchu army, but the leaning lid of the dustbin, the ivy that stretched over some sections, and the protruding branches of cherry, yew and fir that also had to be negotiated over that wall's rather less than 4,000 mile length. Spencer \u2013 who told Zhou that \"I feel at home in China because I feel that Cookham is somewhere near, only just around the corner\" \u2013 was uniquely idiosyncratic, but he was by no means the only delegate who seems to have journeyed to the far side of the world without ever really leaving England behind.As for the future of this attempted rapprochement between Britain and \"New China\", the optimistic \"spirit of Geneva\" evaporated soon enough after the last delegates came home, and the blocs quickly refroze. Yet that moment of hopefulness was not entirely without consequences. Trade between Britain and China was renewed over the years to come, diplomatic relations were established, and cultural exchanges did develop. The Bevanite perspective within the Labour party cannot be said to have thrived, but the insistence on maintaining an independent British stance towards Washington was alive in the 60s, when Harold Wilson refused to commit British forces to America's war in Vietnam. Though insufficient to restrain Tony Blair from joining Bush's invasion of Iraq, it did continue to resound in the heartfelt declamations that the elderly Barbara Castle used to launch against various New Labour policies during her last years in the House of Lords. She informed me in no uncertain terms that the true delinquents of 1954 were those in power who refused to rise to the opportunities of the moment, and certainly not those like herself who went to China with the aim of lifting the bamboo curtain.Of the British artists who went to China in 1954, neither Spencer nor Hogarth would ever return. Mathews, however, would try to maintain the dialogue even as China went through the suppression of the Hundred Flowers campaign, the collectivisation of the briefly \"cooperative\" economy, and the monstrously costly \"Great Leap Forward\". He used his position as secretary of the Contemporary Art Society at the Tate Gallery to promote an exchange of exhibitions. Working directly with Chinese government agencies, he began by organising a survey show of British Graphic Art, which was taken to China by his fellow organiser and artist Richard Carline in 1955. He himself returned in 1960, accompanying an exhibition of recent paintings entitled Sixty Years of British Painting in Oils.He found China to be a very different place. Discussion was discouraged, the circulation of the show was curtailed, and he was prevented from renewing his acquaintance with some of the Chinese artists he had got to know in 1954. Mathews made no progress in his attempt to use the exhibition to create a comparative discussion about aesthetics \u2013 finding himself assailed with dogmatic slogans decreeing that all work produced in China since the liberation of 1949 must be superior to anything produced before, and that no painting of a shrimp, even by the venerated master Qi Baishi, could beat a portrait of Chairman Mao.", "tags": ["History", "Books", "Culture", "Politics", "Society", "China", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China: Behind the bamboo curtain"},{"date": "2010-10-20T09:08:39Z", "country": "china", "content": "China surprised markets on Tuesday with its first interest rate increase since 2007. What prompted the move and what does it mean for the Chinese currency, the yuan?Virtually no one had predicted the rate rise, which took one-year deposit rates to 2.5% and one-year lending rates to 5.56%. As Li Daokui, an academic adviser to the People's Bank of China, explained, the central bank was worried about rising inflation and property prices. Although there is no sign that inflation is getting out of control, consumer prices have been rising faster than Beijing's 3% annual target.The People's Bank of China made clear that it wants savers to lock up more of their cash in banks, rather than invest in stocks or property.Many economists believe this is the start of a cycle of rate increases. But this is likely to be gradual. For example, UBS expects three rate hikes in 2011, Mizuho Securities forecasts two by the middle of next year and Deutsche Bank believes there will be two over the next 12 months.China already began tightening policy late last year. It has kept a lid on credit growth through strict lending quotas, and has also raised reserve requirements three times for all banks to lock up more of their cash, while pushing through a fourth, targeted reserve increase for six major banks last week.Some economists believe that with inflation set to peak soon, Beijing will prefer to rely on lending controls and reserve requirements rather than further interest rate rises.In a fully open economy, higher rates would normally push up the currency. The yuan gained almost 3% against the dollar in the two months before the rate increase, but Beijing sent the yuan's exchange rate sharply lower yesterday. Some traders believe that the government will put the brakes on its appreciation to ward off capital inflows.However, China still faces heavy pressure from the United States, Europe and others to allow the yuan to strengthen.China \u2013 which never fell into recession \u2013 has enjoyed a rapid recovery from the global downturn. Its economy grew at an annual rate of 10.3% in the second quarter, compared with 1.7% in the US, although China's growth is set to have slowed in the third quarter. The figures are due on Thursday.The rapid growth has pushed up wages, food and property prices in the country. Consumer prices rose 3.5% in August, led by a 7.5% rise in food prices.", "tags": ["Currencies", "Business", "Interest rates", "Economics", "Global economy", "China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China rate rise: Q&A"},{"date": "2010-11-11T12:00:01Z", "country": "china", "content": "It's hard to avoid superlatives when describing China. The country's landmass is enormous, covering roughly 9.6m sq km, with a huge population of some 1.3 billion people. Having recently overtaken Japan as the world's second largest economy, it is well on the way to cementing a dominant position on the global markets. Yet one key fact to understand about China is that these developments are seen as nothing new, but a return to the old order of things. During the Tang dynasty (AD618-907) a census from the year 750 revealed a population of one million within the walls of the capital city, Chang'an, making it the largest city in the world at the time. And it was not just its size that was spectacular. The Chinese capital was probably the most powerful economic centre in the ancient world, attracting traders from the west who travelled along the Silk Road to buy and sell. There were Arabs, Persians and Sogdian traders from Samarkand, whose spiritual needs were served by mosques and Zoroastrian temples in the cosmopolitan city.The Chinese pride themselves on having the longest continuous civilisation in the world, although the massive state we know today took time to develop. From isolated Neolithic settlements scattered across the landmass, the great bronze age cultures of the Shang (c1500\u2013c1050BC) and Zhou (c1050\u2013221BC) developed in the north along the Yellow River. As Zhou polity fell apart, the northern part of China was divided between smaller states, many of which built defensive walls, precursors of the Great Wall. In 221BC, the First Emperor conquered all the other states and established his rule over a unified state stretching from the north of Beijing down to the northern border of the Guangdong province and from the far western Sichuan area to the eastern seaboard. This was most of the China we know today \u2013 in fact the name \"China\" derives from the First Emperor's home state of Qin (pronounced \"Chin\") on the Wei river.The First Emperor quickly established an administration to maintain control of this vast landmass. Armed with legal handbooks, texts inscribed on narrow slips of bamboo, tied together and rolled up like tiny bamboo blinds, his officials established a system of law: they set out official standards for weights and measures that were checked rigorously \u2013 swindling offences were punished with sentences of hard labour on imperial walls and roads \u2013 and they conducted forensic investigations into suspicious deaths. A standardised coinage was also introduced: a new form of a circular coin with a square hole in the middle, which was used for more than 2,000 years until 1911. Even now the shape forms a major decorative emblem in ceramics and textiles.In China, the First Emperor's rule is traditionally remembered as that of an unnecessarily harsh tyrant (contrasting with the \"good guys\" from the Han dynasty). Yet the First Emperor also managed to set up a relatively modern, forward-looking legal system that lasted 2,000 years, whereby trained administrators were sent out all over the country to govern by statute. What was right and what was wrong was now no longer subject to the whim of erratic autocrats, but out there for everyone to see. If you stole a sheep, you knew the consequences. China's legal system was described by Jesuit missionaries in the 18th century and admired by Enlightenment thinkers who saw it as a great improvement on rule by hereditary aristocrats.Furthermore, a legal code was promoted that included a concession about legal responsibility. Unlike in Europe, though, it was not based on a person's age. In China even today, on the doors of buses and beside ticket offices in stations and at tourist sites, there is a metre-high mark, indicating that those under a metre in height can enter or travel for free.Another of the First Emperor's decrees was a standardisation of the Chinese script. Though it had been in use for around two millennia, the script had developed into different local forms during the so-called Spring and Autumn period (770\u2013476BC) and Warring States period (475\u2013221BC). After the rule of the First Emperor, there was some further standardisation during the Han dynasty (206BC\u2013AD220), which created the unifying script that has been used ever since. Though it is clear that the pronunciation of Chinese has changed over the millennia, an educated person can still read Han dynasty texts with a fair amount of ease. The sheer difference of Chinese script from other writing systems \u2013 non-alphabetic, with tens of thousands of separate characters \u2013 is a source of national pride. The status of the art of calligraphy is equal to that of painting and has, at times, been higher. Even Mao Zedong, better known in the west as a communist tyrant bent on destroying traditional Chinese culture, prided himself on the wild, \"grass-style\" calligraphy in which he wrote his poems.With the ancient language came ancient traditions and beliefs. In another pattern established by the First Emperor, it was customary for rulers to travel the country, offering sacrifices on the sacred mountains to appease the gods and please rain-bearing dragons. These tours also enabled the emperors to gain an impression of how well their local officials were administering the country, maintaining the delicate balance between the collection of grain and other goods such as tax, and sustaining the life of the peasants by supplying grain relief in times of shortage and keeping up flood defences along China's turbulent rivers. Though the Ming emperors (AD1368\u20131644) were inclined to stay at home, their successors, the invading Manchus from the north-east who established the Qing dynasty (1644\u20131911), revived the practice with enthusiasm. They particularly favoured southern China with their \"southern tours of inspection\", known as nan xun. The Kangxi emperor (1654\u20131722) and the Qianlong emperor (1711\u20131799) were particularly interested in the south, and in southern food and culture. These northerners from the cold Manchurian plains were particularly impressed by the rich, rice-growing, silk-producing cultural centres of Hangzhou, Suzhou and Wuxi. The Qianlong emperor commissioned a copy of the Jichangyuan (Garden of Ease of Mind) in Wuxi to be constructed in the Summer Palace outside Beijing, where it can still be seen today. Both emperors enjoyed southern food so much they retrained their personal cooks \u2013 southern fruits such as lychees and mangoes were soon shipped up the Grand Canal for the imperial kitchens.A more sinister aspect of the traditional respect for language and script is China's long tradition of censorship. It is said that in 213BC, the First Emperor, enraged by conservative critics, ordered a great bonfire in which ancient Confucian texts were destroyed. In 1772, as part of a massive collection of texts to form a huge imperial encyclopaedia, the Qianlong emperor also instructed his officials to seek out seditious works that criticised Manchu rule in what became known as \"the literary inquisition of Qianlong\". During the Cultural Revolution (1966\u20131976) in a bid to destroy the \"four olds\" \u2013 old customs, culture, habits and ideas \u2013 vast quantities of books, paintings, family photographs and works of art were destroyed in a campaign that was remarkably similar to that of the First Emperor's burning of the books.The technological innovations of China's past not only enabled the construction of massive canal networks for transport and improved agricultural techniques but also helped make possible complex and beautiful art objects. They range from the dramatic bronzes of the Shang and Zhou, through the three-coloured ceramic camels of the Tang and the monochrome elegance of Song porcelains (960\u20131279), to the embroidered robes of the Qing. Museums all over the world display aspects of China's artistic achievements. Many demonstrate the ingenuity of China's craftsmen, often working without external stimuli but making their own discoveries. The massive bronzes of 3,000 years ago are unlike those found anywhere else in the world. They were made not by the lost-wax process but in ceramic moulds \u2013 testimony to the skill of the ceramic workers as well as the bronze founders. Porcelain was made in China and perfected a thousand years before European ceramicists groped their way towards the secret of its manufacture. Silk cultivation and weaving were invented in China many thousands of years ago: cut silk cocoons have been discovered in Neolithic sites and silk fabrics survive from Warring States tombs. Silk is probably China's most magical export: a fine yet strong material that was exported along the Silk Road to Rome in the second century BC. The Romans mistakenly believed that it was combed from trees, so the secret of its origin and production were not known outside China until AD522, when production began in Byzantium. Porcelain began to be exported from China in great quantities in the late Tang dynasty and, as European ships began to arrive, first in south-east Asia and eventually in 17th century China, porcelain became a very popular commodity, with European houses filling up with blue and white dishes and bowls.Technological achievements such as gunpowder and the maritime compass are often cited as some of China's most influential gifts to the world. Yet perhaps the greatest legacy was the invention of paper, an essential prerequisite for printing and mass production. Paper and printing were both invented in China \u2013 archaeologists have found paper remains from the second century BC, though according to the standard history of the Han dynasty, the first official mention of the technology was in AD\u00a0105 when the imperial factories officially reported its production to the emperor. Used to make rubbings of significant stone inscriptions such as the Confucian classics in the second century AD, the mass production of paper must have played a part in the invention of woodblock printing in China in about the sixth century, opening up the possibility of cheap mass communication long before Gutenberg's invention of the printing press in Europe. Like silk, paper was used along the Silk Road from the third century BC and by the 10th century had reached Sicily and Spain through the Arab conquests.Paradoxically, even though Chinese products spread across the world to great acclaim, the country itself was little known outside Asia. The arrival of the western nations, intent on trade, coincided with China's decline in the 19th and 20th centuries, a period that now looks like a very short blip in China's long history of economic and cultural success. The decline was internal, caused by expensive wars waged by the Qing emperors, by population growth and a failure to maintain local order. And it was exacerbated by the impatient pressure of western traders, culminating in the two Opium Wars (1839\u20131842 and 1856).The 20th century saw a disastrous period of division and the cruel Japanese invasion, followed by a civil war, after which Mao Zedong and the Communist Party took power in 1949. Since the death of Mao in 1976, new policies have seen the gradual growth of China to its present economic success.Despite its cultural heritage and the dramatic performance of the national economy, and perhaps partly because of the knocks it took in the Cultural Revolution, China has been slow to recover confidence after 200 years of disaster and disunion. There is a widespread tendency to dwell on the humiliation of the Opium Wars, and to regard any setback as a further humiliation of the same sort. China's failure to secure the 2000 and 2004 Olympic Games still rankles, despite the extraordinary spectacle of the 2008 Beijing Olympics. Even the existence of Chinese porcelain in European museums is sometimes resented and regarded as loot even though the vast majority of the pieces were acquired quite legitimately.As China's economy takes off, perhaps sensitivity to 19th century humiliations can be overcome by pride in the earlier past. Occasionally one gets a glance of the self-belief that China's ancient memory can engender. In the 1980s, I met an old monk on the Buddhist mountain of Jiuhua Shan. \"England...\" he said after I had introduced myself. \"You have a queen, don't you? She must be very old by now\". Only as I started my descent did I realise that he had been thinking of Queen Victoria.Frances Wood is head of the Chinese department at the British Library. Her publications include Did Marco Polo Go To China?, The Silk Road, The First Emperor and The Diamond Sutra", "tags": ["Culture", "China", "Archaeology", "Science", "World news", "Art and design", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "The Ancient World | China"},{"date": "2010-10-13T12:00:03Z", "country": "china", "content": "Dear members of the standing committee of the National People's Congress:Article 35 of China's constitution as adopted in 1982 clearly states that: \"Citizens of the People's Republic of China enjoy freedom of speech, of the press, of assembly, of association, of procession and of demonstration.\" For 28 years this article has stood unrealised, having been negated by detailed rules and regulations for \"implementation\". This false democracy of formal avowal and concrete denial has become a scandalous mark on the history of world democracy.On 26 February 2003, at a meeting of democratic consultation between the standing committee of the political bureau of the central committee of the Chinese Communist party and democratic parties, not long after President Hu Jintao assumed office, he stated clearly: \"The removal of restrictions on the press, and the opening up of public opinion positions, is a mainstream view and demand held by society; it is natural, and should be resolved through the legislative process. If the Communist party does not reform itself, if it does not transform, it will lose its vitality and move toward natural and inevitable extinction.\"On 3 October, America's Cable News Network (CNN) aired an interview with Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao by anchor Fareed Zakaria. Responding to the journalist's questions, Wen said: \"Freedom of speech is indispensable for any nation; China's constitution endows the people with freedom of speech; the demands of the people for democracy cannot be resisted.\"In accord with China's constitution, and in the spirit of the remarks made by Hu and Wen, we hereupon represent the following concerning the materialisation of the constitutional rights to freedom of speech and of the press.We have for 61 years \"served as master\" in the name of the citizens of the People's Republic of China. But the freedom of speech and of the press we now enjoy is inferior even to that of Hong Kong before its return to Chinese sovereignty, to that entrusted to the residents of a colony.Before the handover, Hong Kong was a British colony, governed by those appointed by the Queen's government. But the freedom of speech and freedom of the press given to residents of Hong Kong by the British authorities there was not empty, appearing only on paper. It was enacted and realised.When our country was founded in 1949, our people cried that they had been liberated, that they were not their own masters. Mao Zedong said that \"from this moment, the people of China have stood\". But even today, 61 years after the founding of our nation, after 30 years of opening and reform, we have not yet attained freedom of speech and freedom of the press to the degree enjoyed by the people of Hong Kong under colonial rule. Even now, many books discussing political and current affairs must be published in Hong Kong. This is not something that dates from the [territory's] return, but is merely an old tactic familiar under colonial rule. The \"master\" status of the people of China's mainland is so inferior. For our nation to advertise itself as having \"socialist democracy\" with Chinese characteristics is such an embarrassment.Not only the average citizen, but even the most senior leaders of the Communist party have no freedom of speech or press. Recently, Li Rui met with the following circumstance. Not long ago, the Collected Works in Memory of Zhou Xiaozhou were published, and it originally included an essay commemorating Zhou that Li had written for the People's Daily in 1981. Zhou's wife phoned Li to explain the situation: \"Beijing has sent out a notice. Li Rui's writings cannot be published.\" What incredible folly it is that an old piece of writing from a party newspaper cannot be included in a volume of collected works! Li said: \"What kind of country is this?! I want to cry it out: the press must be free! Such strangling of the people's freedom of expression is entirely illegal!\"It's not even just high-level leaders \u2013 even the premier of our country does not have freedom of speech or of the press. On 21 August 2010, Wen gave a speech in Shenzhen called, \"Only by pushing ahead with reforms can our nation have bright prospects.\" He said: \"We must not only push economic reforms, but also promote political reforms. Without the protection afforded by political reforms, the gains we have made from economic reforms will be lost, and our goal of modernisation cannot be realised.\" Xinhua news agency's official news release on 21 August, \"Building a beautiful future for the special economic zone\", omitted the content in Wen's speech dealing with political reform.On 22 September, Wen held a dialogue in New York with American Chinese media and media from Hong Kong and Macao, and again emphasised the importance of \"political system reforms\". Wen said: \"Concerning political reforms, I have said previously that if economic reforms are without the protection to be gained by political reforms, then we cannot be entirely successful, and even perhaps the gains of our progress so far will be lost.\" Shortly after, Wen addressed the 65th session of the United Nations general assembly, giving a speech called \"Recognising a true China\", in which he spoke again about political reform. Late on 23 September, these events were reported on China Central Television's Xinwen Lianbo and in an official news release from Xinhua news agency. They reported only Wen's remarks on the circumstances facing overseas Chinese, and on the importance of overseas Chinese media. His mentions of political reform were all removed.For these matters, if we endeavour to find those responsible, we are utterly incapable of putting our finger on a specific person. This is the work of invisible hands. For their own reasons, they violate our constitution, often ordering by telephone that the works of such and such a person cannot be published, or that such and such an event cannot be reported in the media. The officials who make the call do not leave their names, and the secrecy of the agents is protected, but you must heed their phone instructions. These invisible hands are our central propaganda department. Right now the department is placed above the central committee of the Communist party, and above the state council. We would ask, what right does the central propaganda department have to muzzle the speech of the premier? What right does it have to rob the people of our nation of their right to know what the premier has said?Our core demand is that the system of censorship be dismantled in favour of a system of legal responsibility.The rights to freedom of speech and the press guaranteed in article 35 of our constitution are turned into mere adornments for the walls by means of concrete implementation rules such as the \"ordinance on publishing control\". These implementation rules are, broadly speaking, a system of censorship and approvals. There are countless numbers of commandments and taboos restricting freedom of speech and freedom of the press. The creation of a press law and the abolishment of the censorship system has already become an urgent task before us.We recommend that the National People's Congress work immediately toward the creation of a press law, and that the ordinance on publishing control and local restrictions on news and publishing be annulled. Institutionally speaking, the realisation of freedom of speech and freedom of the press as guaranteed in the constitution means making media independent of the party and government organs that presently control them, thereby transforming \"party mouthpieces\" into \"public instruments.\"Therefore, the foundation of the creation of a press law must be the enacting of a system of [post facto] legal responsibility [determined according to fair laws]. We cannot again strengthen the censorship system in the name of \"strengthening the leadership of the party\". The so-called censorship system is the system by which prior to publication one must receive the approval of party organs, allowing for publication only after approval and designating all unapproved published materials as illegal. The so-called system of legal responsibility means that published materials need not pass through approval by party or government organs, but may be published as soon as the editor-in-chief deems fit. If there are unfavourable outcomes or disputes following publication, the government would be able to intervene and determine according to the law whether there are cases of wrongdoing.In countries around the world, the development of rule of law in news and publishing has followed this path, making a transition from systems of censorship to systems of legal responsibility. There is little doubt that systems of legal responsibility mark progress over systems of censorship, and this is greatly in the favour of the development of the humanities and natural sciences, and in promoting social harmony and historical progress. England did away with censorship in 1695. France abolished its censorship system in 1881, and the publication of newspapers and periodicals thereafter required only a simple declaration, which was signed by the representatives of the publication and mailed to the office of the procurator of the republic. Our present system of censorship leaves news and book publishing in our country 315 years behind England and 129 years behind France.1. Abolish sponsoring institutions of [Chinese] media, allowing publishing institutions to operate independently; and truly implement a system in which directors and editors-in-chief are responsible for their publication units.2. Respect journalists and make them strong. Journalists should be the \"uncrowned kings\". The reporting of mass incidents and exposing of official corruption are noble missions on behalf of the people, and this work should be protected and supported. Immediately put a stop to the unconstitutional behaviour of various local governments and police in arresting journalists. Look into the circumstances behind the case of writer Xie Chaoping. Liang Fengmin, the party secretary of Weinan city [involved in the Xie Chaoping case] must face party discipline as a warning to others.3. Abolish restrictions on extra-territorial supervision by public opinion by the media, ensuring the right of journalists to carry out reporting freely throughout the country.4. The internet is an important discussion platform for information in our society and citizens' views. Aside from information that truly concerns our national secrets and speech that violates a citizen's right to privacy, internet regulatory bodies must not arbitrarily delete online posts and online comments. Online spies must be abolished, the \"fifty-cent party\" must be abolished, and restrictions on anti-censorship technologies must be abolished.5. There are no more taboos concerning our party's history. Chinese citizens have a right to know the errors of the ruling party.6. Southern Weekly and Yanhuang Chunqiu should be permitted to restructure as privately operated pilot programmes in the independent media. The privatisation of newspapers and periodicals is the natural direction of political reforms. History teaches us: when rulers and deliberators are highly unified, when the government and the media are both surnamed \"party\", and when the party sings for its own pleasure, it is difficult to connect with the will of the people and attain true leadership. From the time of the great leap forward to the time of the cultural revolution, newspapers, magazines, television and radio in the mainland have never truly reflected the will of the people. Party and government leaders have been insensible to dissenting voices, so they have had difficulty in recognising and correcting wholesale errors. For a ruling party and government to use the tax money of the people to run media that sing their own praises is something not permitted in democratic nations.7. Permit the free circulation within the mainland of books and periodicals from Hong Kong and Macao. Our country has joined the World Trade Organisation, and economically we have already integrated with the world \u2013 attempting to remain closed culturally goes against the course already plotted for opening and reform. Hong Kong and Macao offer advanced culture right at our nation's door, and the books and periodicals of Hong Kong and Macao are welcomed and trusted by the people.8. Transform the functions of various propaganda organs, so that they are transformed from agencies setting down so many \"taboos\" to agencies protecting the accuracy, timeliness and unimpeded flow of information; from agencies that assist corrupt officials in suppressing and controlling stories that reveal the truth to agencies that support the media in monitoring party and government organs; from agencies that close publications, fire editors and arrest journalists to agencies that oppose power and protect media and journalists. Our propaganda organs have a horrid reputation within the party and in society. They must work for good in order to regain their reputations. At the appropriate time, we can consider renaming these propaganda organs to suit global trends.We represent ourselves, hoping for your utmost attention.Signed:Li Rui, former standing vice minister of the organisation department of the CCP central committee, member of the 12th central committee of the CCPHu Jiwei, former director of People's Daily, standing committee member to the 7th National People's Congress, director of the Federation of Chinese Communication InstitutesJiang Ping, former head of the China University of Political Science and Law, tenured professor, standing committee member to the 7th National People's Congress, deputy director of the executive law committee of the NPCLi Pu, former deputy director of Xinhua news agencyZhou Shaoming, former deputy director of the political department of the Guangzhou military area commandZhong Peizhang, former head of the news office of the central propaganda departmentWang Yongcheng, professor at Shanghai Jiaotong UniversityZhang Zhongpei, researcher at the Imperial Palace museum, chairman of the China Archaeological SocietyDu Guang, former professor at the Central Party SchoolGuo Daojun, former editor-in-chief of China Legal ScienceXiao Mo, former head of the Architecture Research Centre of the Chinese National Academy of ArtsZhuang Puming, former deputy director of People's PressHu Fuchen, former director and editor-in-chief at China Worker's Publishing HouseZhang Ding, former director of the China Social Sciences Press at the Chinese Academy of Social SciencesYu You, former editor-in-chief of China DailyOuyang Jin, former editor-in-chief of Hong Kong's Pacific magazineYu Haocheng, former director of Masses Publishing HouseZhang Qing, former director of China Cinema Publishing HouseYu Yueting, former director of Fujian Television, veteran journalistSha Yexin, former head of the Shanghai People's Art and Drama Academy, now an independent writer of the Hui ethnic minoritySun Xupei, former director of the News Research Institute at the Chinese Academy of Social SciencesXin Ziling, former director of the editorial desk at China National Defence UniversityTie Liu, editor-in-chief of Wangshi Weihen magazine (Scars of the Past).Legal Counsel\uff1aSong Yue, Chinese citizen, practicing lawyer in the State of New York, USThis translation was made by the University of Hong Kong's China Media Project and was first posted here.", "tags": ["China", "Freedom of speech", "Censorship", "Civil liberties - international", "Journalist safety", "Communism", "Media", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China must abandon censorship | Open letter"},{"date": "2010-12-14T12:16:12Z", "country": "china", "content": "Dirty tricks by multinationals, political corruption and the erosion of an African success story have been among the stories that have emerged from the leaked US embassy cables over the past fortnight.The leaked cables, published by WikiLeaks, say that drug company Pfizer hired investigators to find evidence of corruption on the Nigerian attorney general to persuade him to drop legal action over a controversial meningitis drug trial.The cables also highlight rampant corruption in Kenya that threatens to push the country towards violence on a scale worse than that seen after the 2008 presidential election, and uncovers the scale of influence the oil giant Shell wields in Nigeria.Meanwhile, the Ugandan president's \"autocratic tendencies\" come under scrutiny, which, along with corruption, a population explosion and \"sharpening ethnic divisions\" is ruining Uganda's image as an African success story.Coinciding with the publication of his book Beyond the Crash, Madeleine Bunting examines Gordon Brown's passion for development, which seems at odds with his enthusiasm for globalisation, and asks if Britain's former prime minister is vying for a top job at the IMF.Jonathan Glennie argues that while African leaders may prefer to deal with China, rather than the US and Europe, any money from Beijing will still come with strings attached.And Kelly Nicholls writes about the publication of a report that reveals the hidden human tragedy of the 30,000 \"disappeared\" in Colombia.Later this week, we'll launch this month's Global development Focus podcast, which will explore the involvement of celebrities in aid and development. Visit our Talk point section and tell us which celebrities you think do the most good, or the most harm, and nominate those you think we should discuss in the podcast, which will be recorded on Thursday.To mark the Global development website's first Christmas, we'll be publishing a quiz over the festive period to test your knowledge of our coverage of the issues over the past four months.And with 2011 just around the corner, we'll look back at what 2010 did for global development, and look ahead to what the new year could bring.Gallery: South Sudan: the challenge ahead. In January, south Sudan votes on whether to split from the north. National Geographic photographer Karen Kasmasuki, who works with the humanitarian organisation Cafod, visited Sudan and examines the challenges that lie ahead, regardless of the outcome of the referendum.Video: Mozambique: Changing weather patterns and livelihoods. Weather in the Zambezi flood plain has become so unpredictable that subsistence farmers in Mozambique are having to adapt and diversify into different livelihoods.Video: Child labourers on Malawi's tobacco farms. Vulnerable children are being exposed to hazardous working conditions in the tobacco industry. It is estimated that more than 78,000 children work on tobacco estates across Malawi, some up to 12 hours a day, many for less than 1p an hour.On the Talk point article asking for views on the involvement of celebrities in global development, a senior NGO communications manager, who wished to remain anonymous, said:On a blog about tax payments in poor countries, Poverty Focus writes:On Richard Mallett's blog on why aid should not be used to meet the UK's security agenda, NickYoung writes:On AidWatch, William Eastely compares the campaigning credentials of John Lennon and Bono and ponders the \"death of the celebrity activist\".Owen Barder responds to the World Bank's Shanta Devarajan on whether increased social accountability is the answer to \"Development 3.0\".Rachel Godfrey Wood, of the IIED, speculates on the Due South blog, on Iran \"sleep-walking\" towards a progressive universal income grant.", "tags": ["Global development"], "title": "Corruption, China and Gordon Brown"},{"date": "2010-12-03T16:19:27Z", "country": "china", "content": "China's English-language newspaper, China Daily, appeared on newsstands across Europe today.The special weekly issue is being distributed in nine European countries. It follows the launch of similar editions in the United States and Hong Kong.Renzhong Zhi, general manager of China Daily UK, said: \"We identified a gap to provide a useful source of news and analysis to European businesses seeking to better understand and engage with China.\"As more partnerships develop between China and the West, it is crucial that there exists a regular source of insight on changing trends.\"He explained that there would be some breaking news, but the majority of the paper would seek \"to provide a more in-depth review of headlines of the week \u2013 a useful guide to help readers understand the emerging opportunities that exist between China and Europe.\"There is a website here Source: Bell Pottinger press release", "tags": ["Media", "China", "Newspapers", "World news", "Europe", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China Daily launches Europe issue"},{"date": "2010-11-18T12:22:13Z", "country": "china", "content": "China today denied US allegations that it \"hijacked\" highly sensitive internet traffic \u2013 including emails sent to and from US military websites \u2013 earlier this year.A state-owned telecoms company in China had access to 15% of global internet traffic, including confidential emails from Nasa and the US army, for 18 minutes in April, according to an annual security report delivered to the US congress on Wednesday.The report warned that the capture \"could enable severe malicious activities\" by China. The state-owned company accused of \"hijacking\" the encrypted information, China Telecom, today denied \"any hijack of internet traffic\".Online security experts say the capture represents \"one of the biggest hijacks\" of sensitive information in the history of the internet.Relations between China and the US \u2013 number one and two in the world, respectively, in terms of internet users \u2013 have long been fraught when it comes to the web.Earlier this year US technology giant Google said it was to stop censoring results on its Chinese search engine, following a sophisticated and allegedly state-sponsored cyber attack directed at the company. China earlier accused the US of making \"groundless accusations\" about restrictions on internet freedom against the country.The US report said that some 15% of global internet traffic was routed through Chinese servers earlier this year, prompting worries that the country now has access to sensitive correspondence from US government bodies. US commissioner Larry Wortzel raised concerns on Wednesday that China would now \"get the internet addresses of everybody that communicated\" with the US armed services' chiefs of staff.The rerouting began at a smaller Chinese ISP called IDC China before being passed on to China Telecom, the report compiled by the US-China economic and security review commission claimed. Encrypted correspondence from the US senate, the department of defence and \"many others\" were among the huge amount of traffic captured by China.Dmitri Alperovitch, a threat research analyst at internet security firm McAfee, said the capture \"is one of the biggest \u2013 if not the biggest hijacks \u2013 we have ever seen\".\"No one except China Telecom operators\" know what happened to the traffic during those 18 minutes, Alperovitch added. \"The possibilities are numerous and troubling, but definitive answers are unknown.\"", "tags": ["Internet", "Data and computer security", "Technology", "China", "World news", "Digital media", "Media", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China denies 'hijacking' internet traffic"},{"date": "2010-10-29T23:07:47Z", "country": "china", "content": "On 1 October 1954, Sir Hugh Casson, the urbane professor of interior design who had been director of architecture at the Festival of Britain, found himself standing by the Tiananmen Gate in the ancient and still walled city of Peking. In China to present a statement of friendship signed by nearly 700 British scientists and artists, he was watching a parade that the reporter James Cameron reckoned to be \"the greatest show on earth\". First came the troops and the \"military ironwork\", grinding past for a full hour. This was followed by a much longer civil parade in which the people marched by in barely imaginable numbers, beaming with joy at their elevated leaders who gazed back with the slightly \"subdued\" expression of still unaccustomed new emperors.Float after float rolled by, showing model factories and locomotives. Children released balloons and elastic-powered model aeroplanes; the masses united to cry \"Down with American imperialism\"; and Picasso's peace dove was everywhere. Having recently migrated from earlier European congresses, this simplified bird appeared to have usurped the traditional dragons of Peking.The spectacle with which China celebrated the fifth anniversary of the communist liberation was brilliantly organised, as Casson felt obliged to admit. He was less impressed by the admiring expressions worn by many of the other international guests: \"Gold-rimmed spectacles misted with emotion, cheeks creased with years of well-meant service in this cause or in that, shirts defiantly open at the neck, badges in lapels, and there in the middle \u2013 could it have been? \u2013 an MCC tie.\"That particular specimen was Ivor Montagu, a cricket-loving friend and translator of the great Soviet film-maker Sergei Eisenstein. He was also a table tennis champion who preferred \"New China's\" disciplined \"physical jerks\" to the indolence of a capitalist world in which \"rich men\" disdained even walking as \"something you paid those less fortunate to do on your behalf\". And he was by no means alone in his enthusiasm for \"New China\".Sickened by the rapture of the communist regime's ardent western friends, Casson quickly retreated to the shaded \"rest room\" beneath the viewing stand. Here he lingered among yellow-robed Tibetan lamas, sipping tea and exchanging impressions with other doubtful Britons: the classically minded and no longer Marxist novelist and poet Rex Warner, and AJ Ayer, the high-living logical positivist who would come home to tell the BBC that China's parade had reminded him of the Nuremberg rallies. They may also have caught a fleeting glimpse of the Marxist crystallographer JD Bernal, who had no MCC tie but was sporting his Stalin prize medal, collected in Moscow on the way to China. Bernal was full of admiration for New China and its celebrations, but as hour followed hour he too descended from the stand to spend a moment \"sipping orange juice through a straw\" at the same table as the dalai lama.Enraptured or appalled, none of these British witnesses appears to have regretted the absence of Stanley Spencer. The 63-year-old painter, so famously associated with the little Berkshire village of Cookham, had managed to escape the entire show \u2013 thanks, he later explained, to \"some Mongolians\", whose timely arrival at the hotel that morning had provided the cover under which he retreated upstairs to his room.It was the discovery that Spencer had been to China that persuaded me to look further into this forgotten episode. I soon realised that an extraordinary assortment of Britons had made their way to China in 1954, including the former prime minister and leader of the Labour Party, Clement Attlee. And all this nearly two decades before 1972, when President Nixon made the stage-managed and \u2013 even before John Adams got hold of it \u2013 distinctly operatic visit that has gone down in history as the moment when the west entered rapprochement with the People's Republic of China. Were these motley British visitors just credulous idiots, for whom \"Red China\" was another version of the legendary Cathay? That is what the 24-year-old Douglas Hurd and the other diplomats in the British embassy compound in Peking appear to have suspected of these unwelcome freeloaders. Or was something more significant going on?Nowadays, the rapidly increasing number of British travellers to China think nothing of getting on a plane to fly directly there. Yet Spencer had good reason to feel \"trembly\" as he and the five other members of his entirely unofficial cultural delegation approached the runway at Heathrow on 14 September 1954. Though Britain had recognised China a few months after the liberation, it had yet to establish proper diplomatic relations with the communist-led government, and the embarking Britons couldn't pick up a visa until they had reached Prague. That meant crossing the iron curtain dividing Europe. \"Did you go under or over it?\" one joker would later ask, making light of a passage that was actually more like falling over the edge of the known world. The travellers then had to fly across east Europe, pausing at Minsk and Moscow before heading across Siberia and then Mongolia \u2013 all the time relying on their hosts to finance, accommodate and entertain them, and also to provide the vibrating twin-prop planes in which they would hop to the far side of the world, landing every three hours or so to refuel.\"There are bears in there,\" Spencer mused, glancing anxiously down into a nameless Soviet forest at a moment when the engine sputtered \"Fit! Fit! Fit!\" There were troubles at home too. The cold war was entrenched, its dangers exacerbated by the advance of nuclear weaponry on both sides. Britain, meanwhile, was financially straitened, and reliant on loans from America, which demanded adherence to Washington's hard-line foreign policy including its trade embargoes against Russia and China. Under these circumstances, it was by no means just a handful of disgruntled communists and export-hungry businessmen who yearned to make Britain's political outlook more independent. The loss of power gave a distinctly anti-American resonance to the patriotic lament of Shakespeare's John of Gaunt \u2013 that \"This England\" should ever be \"leas'd\u00a0out . . . Like to a tenement, or pelting\u00a0farm\".China remained hostile and isolated behind the recently lowered \"bamboo curtain\". Nevertheless, by the beginning of 1954 a thaw had begun to seem possible. Stalin had died in March 1953, and the Korean war had been brought to a ceasefire not long afterwards. There were indications that Moscow and its Chinese ally might be interested in making more than a slogan out of \"peaceful coexistence\" with the west. It was, however, France's losing war in the area then known as \"French Indo-China\" that persuaded many in western Europe to adopt a more optimistic view of \"New China\" than President Eisenhower's bomb-wreathed \"domino theory\" of Asia's imminent fall to communism.On the morning of Saturday 24 April, the Chinese prime minister and foreign secretary, Zhou Enlai, flew into Geneva from Moscow. He came at the head of a large Chinese delegation to join France, Britain and Russia in a conference aimed at finding a settlement to the Indo-China war. Previously, west Europeans had known the Chinese leader only through anti-communist stereotypes, or the equally partisan hymns of praise issued by witnesses such as Hewlett Johnson, the inordinately optimistic \"Red Dean of Canterbury\".But here he now was, anything but a Russian puppet or, for that matter, a primitive \"agrarian reformer\" of the kind many in the west imagined the Chinese communists to be. Diverse western Europeans were transfixed by the sight of this urbane and highly competent man, smiling into the cameras as he berated America \u2013 which had refused even to take part in the conference \u2013 and demonstrating his abilities as a regional leader by negotiating ceasefires in Laos, Cambodia and Vietnam. Later in the year, James Cameron would describe Zhou as the man who, in the course of his short visit to Geneva, had produced \"the simultaneous double-effect\" of \"a nervous constriction in the diplomatic hearts and a violent sexual impulse in the persons of almost every European woman who clapped eyes on him\".The flights to Peking began shortly after Zhou's European triumph. From Geneva, as at the Bandung conference the following year, Zhou invited the world to \"come and see\" what was going on behind the bamboo curtain. And Britons were among those who headed for the airport. The Labour leadership sent the opening delegation. Clement Attlee was at its head, accompanied by various other members of the National Executive Committee, including Aneurin Bevan and his former insurance minister Edith Summerskill.The cultural delegation, which comprised Casson, Warner, Ayer and Spencer, together with the geologist Leonard Hawkes and the young sinologist John Chinnery, followed later in the summer. Like the vague statement of friendship in its luggage, its membership had been decided by people close to the Britain-China Friendship Association, who were careful to come up with a group that could not easily be dismissed as communist fellow travellers. A delegation of Labour councillors and shop stewards was recruited at the last minute and guided, very reluctantly, by the communist \"artist-reporter\" Paul Hogarth. He had travelled a lot behind the iron curtain and could not now escape responsibility for chaperoning a very \"third rate\" Labour delegation whose members, as he told me, cared nothing for China new or old, and wanted only to get drunk at somebody else's expense. A more senior delegation of Labour MPs, including Barbara Castle, William Griffiths and various other \"Bevanites\" who had come into the Commons in the 1945 landslide, delayed its departure until early October so that its members could attend the Labour party conference, where they had joined Bevan in objecting, unsuccessfully, to Attlee's support of cold war policies.There were indeed some pilgrims among the travellers, who saw what they and China's presenters wanted them to see \u2013 docilely imbibing tea and statistics, smiling back at children in model nurseries, and sensing only a bright cooperative future in fields fertilised with the blood of murdered landlords. But the Attlee delegation was not like that. Its members had fought their own battles against communism in Britain, and they had been well briefed before leaving. They had also been given a detailed anticipation of the \"show\" they should expect from a collection of Chinese teachers, editors and intellectuals who had moved to Hong Kong. They liked the new marriage laws, the apparent abolition of prostitution, and also the new public health campaigns. As in Moscow, they were, perhaps, a little discomforted as they compared their own achievements while in government in Britain with China's prodigious construction of factories, mines, housing, schools and hospitals. They stood up to Mao over tea, deplored the regime's failure to do anything about the booming birth-rate and also criticised the communist-led government for imposing an absurdly distorted idea of the west on their people. If China really believed that the masses in the west sympathised with communism, and were only held down by an evil ruling class, then they might blunder into another war.Even those with strong communist loyalties tried to reduce China's exclusive reliance on the USSR. Thus, while JD Bernal was known for his mistaken support for the \"proletarian science\" of the bogus geneticist Trofim\u00a0Lysenko, he certainly did not spend his many lectures trying to convince New China's scientists to rely on such Soviet\u00a0models, arguing throughout for\u00a0a renewed exchange between Chinese scientists and their colleagues in the west.It was a similar situation with the artists Paul Hogarth and Denis Mathews. They were both happy to celebrate the liberation and the ongoing reconstruction of China. And yet they were also united in their opposition to the idea that Soviet socialist realism offered an adequate model for the future development of Chinese art. They argued this point forcefully with the artists who welcomed them and accompanied them around the country. Both insisted that it would be far better to consider the new forms of figuration pioneered by Picasso and Guttuso in western Europe.Meanwhile, confusion as well as unexpected light followed from the visitors' habit of applying British analogies to Chinese realities. Attlee himself praised New China's still expanding network of cooperatives, seeing in them the principle of \"voluntary action\" that William Beveridge had insisted was the necessary attendant to the welfare state. The national secretary of the Women's Cooperative Guild, Mabel Ridealgh, likened China's extensive cooperatives to those of her own organisation and joined Castle in comparing China's food distribution system to the Co-op in Britain.Earlier post-liberation visitors had already set about Englishing the new Chinese scene. \"It's the same in Marylebone High Street,\" the veteran actor Miles Malleson had remarked in 1953: he was thinking of New China's appetite for dramas with a contemporary message. Basil Davidson had reserved a different English comparison for a communist group leader in the southern city of Canton. Aware of what the regime's critics said about such watchful cadres, he insisted that she was \"as much a spy on her 50 families as the chairman of my parish council, in rural Essex, is a spy on me\".Hogarth was merely continuing in this line when he declared arriving in Shanghai to be like \"pulling into Manchester from Sheffield\", while Hangchow (Hangzhou) was like \"a South Coast English seaside resort whose better days lay at the beginning of the century\". He found a more original English line on China's revolutionary art. Visiting the Lu Xun museum in Shanghai, he enjoyed the discovery that those stark woodcuts, designed to galvanise illiterate peasants into action against both the Japanese and Chiang Kai-shek's reactionary nationalists, were descended from leafy English scenes portrayed by such far from revolutionary artists as Gwen Raverat, Robert Gibbings and Edward Bawden.There was a characteristically English way of looking at China's notoriously bloody \"agrarian reform\" too. In 1949, Mao had famously proclaimed that the Chinese people had at last \"stood up\", and Hogarth was happy to confirm that claim. His drawing of a \"Shansi peasant\" shows a man standing very upright indeed: clasping the wooden hayfork that rises next to his head, he stares back with a resolute expression that is neither cringing nor deferential.Made in the field, as was this determined artist-reporter's way, Hogarth's drawing evokes an English analogy already employed by Joseph Needham, Davidson and other visitors \u2013 the English Diggers and Levellers of the 17th century, who had torn down fences and set to work digging up the commons land stolen from them under the new Enclosure Acts.It was at once an evasive strategy and a concerted attempt to assert an English tradition uncompromised by a mutually hated British imperialism. Yet it was Spencer who raised the art of being English in New China to its strangest heights. Twenty years earlier, he had recorded the desire to write the story of his life as if it were a wandering \"journey to China\", and he had no sooner landed at the airfield outside Peking than he started peering around in startled recognition: \"As I drove along the roads from the airports to the towns it was almost comic to see these dreams of mine coming true on either side of the road.\" Other delegates cringed as he harassed the guides at various historical sites with peculiar offscript questions, and tormented helpless waiters with requests for fish and chips. As for New China's artists, Spencer had no prescriptions to offer about socialist realism. Instead he informed his audience at the Central Academy of Fine Arts that he was \"possibly the most marvellous visitor to China they had ever had\". He ventured that his visit was \"something on a par with the coming of Buddha\", later explaining that he had felt obliged to emphasise this fact \"because in England if people don't know who I am I am at once called upon to carry heavy suitcases\".Britain's horrified charg\u00e9 d'affaires in Peking, Humphrey Trevelyan, avoided that particular occasion but could not escape the \"fatuous performance\" in which Spencer, Ayer, Warner, Casson and Hawkes, the leader of the cultural delegation, presented their statement of friendship to the minister of culture, Kuo Mo-jo, a man whose purpose was so obviously to \"exploit the word 'peace' for political ends\". Trevelyan was particularly dismayed to hear Spencer \"guilelessly expatiating\" about \"the delights of Formosa\". For Trevelyan, as for Kuo Mo-jo and his colleagues, Formosa was the American-buoyed nationalist island that the communist slogans fiercely insisted was really China's Taiwan. And now here was Spencer blundering on without ever really making it clear that the \"Formosa\" in his mind was actually a little island in the Thames at Cookham, with a creek, a picturesque old house, and a field in which the local Boy Scouts held their musters.Judging from the notes he wrote after returning home, Spencer made very short work of the Great Wall of China too. Indeed, he reduced it to the garden wall along which he had liked to walk as a child in Cookham. He had, as he explained, climbed up by the coal cellar and triumphed over many challenges as he made his way along its length: not the advancing Manchu army, but the leaning lid of the dustbin, the ivy that stretched over some sections, and the protruding branches of cherry, yew and fir that also had to be negotiated over that wall's rather less than 4,000 mile length. Spencer \u2013 who told Zhou that \"I feel at home in China because I feel that Cookham is somewhere near, only just around the corner\" \u2013 was uniquely idiosyncratic, but he was by no means the only delegate who seems to have journeyed to the far side of the world without ever really leaving England behind.As for the future of this attempted rapprochement between Britain and \"New China\", the optimistic \"spirit of Geneva\" evaporated soon enough after the last delegates came home, and the blocs quickly refroze. Yet that moment of hopefulness was not entirely without consequences. Trade between Britain and China was renewed over the years to come, diplomatic relations were established, and cultural exchanges did develop. The Bevanite perspective within the Labour party cannot be said to have thrived, but the insistence on maintaining an independent British stance towards Washington was alive in the 60s, when Harold Wilson refused to commit British forces to America's war in Vietnam. Though insufficient to restrain Tony Blair from joining Bush's invasion of Iraq, it did continue to resound in the heartfelt declamations that the elderly Barbara Castle used to launch against various New Labour policies during her last years in the House of Lords. She informed me in no uncertain terms that the true delinquents of 1954 were those in power who refused to rise to the opportunities of the moment, and certainly not those like herself who went to China with the aim of lifting the bamboo curtain.Of the British artists who went to China in 1954, neither Spencer nor Hogarth would ever return. Mathews, however, would try to maintain the dialogue even as China went through the suppression of the Hundred Flowers campaign, the collectivisation of the briefly \"cooperative\" economy, and the monstrously costly \"Great Leap Forward\". He used his position as secretary of the Contemporary Art Society at the Tate Gallery to promote an exchange of exhibitions. Working directly with Chinese government agencies, he began by organising a survey show of British Graphic Art, which was taken to China by his fellow organiser and artist Richard Carline in 1955. He himself returned in 1960, accompanying an exhibition of recent paintings entitled Sixty Years of British Painting in Oils.He found China to be a very different place. Discussion was discouraged, the circulation of the show was curtailed, and he was prevented from renewing his acquaintance with some of the Chinese artists he had got to know in 1954. Mathews made no progress in his attempt to use the exhibition to create a comparative discussion about aesthetics \u2013 finding himself assailed with dogmatic slogans decreeing that all work produced in China since the liberation of 1949 must be superior to anything produced before, and that no painting of a shrimp, even by the venerated master Qi Baishi, could beat a portrait of Chairman Mao.", "tags": ["History", "Books", "Culture", "Politics", "Society", "China", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China: Behind the bamboo curtain"},{"date": "2010-10-20T09:08:39Z", "country": "china", "content": "China surprised markets on Tuesday with its first interest rate increase since 2007. What prompted the move and what does it mean for the Chinese currency, the yuan?Virtually no one had predicted the rate rise, which took one-year deposit rates to 2.5% and one-year lending rates to 5.56%. As Li Daokui, an academic adviser to the People's Bank of China, explained, the central bank was worried about rising inflation and property prices. Although there is no sign that inflation is getting out of control, consumer prices have been rising faster than Beijing's 3% annual target.The People's Bank of China made clear that it wants savers to lock up more of their cash in banks, rather than invest in stocks or property.Many economists believe this is the start of a cycle of rate increases. But this is likely to be gradual. For example, UBS expects three rate hikes in 2011, Mizuho Securities forecasts two by the middle of next year and Deutsche Bank believes there will be two over the next 12 months.China already began tightening policy late last year. It has kept a lid on credit growth through strict lending quotas, and has also raised reserve requirements three times for all banks to lock up more of their cash, while pushing through a fourth, targeted reserve increase for six major banks last week.Some economists believe that with inflation set to peak soon, Beijing will prefer to rely on lending controls and reserve requirements rather than further interest rate rises.In a fully open economy, higher rates would normally push up the currency. The yuan gained almost 3% against the dollar in the two months before the rate increase, but Beijing sent the yuan's exchange rate sharply lower yesterday. Some traders believe that the government will put the brakes on its appreciation to ward off capital inflows.However, China still faces heavy pressure from the United States, Europe and others to allow the yuan to strengthen.China \u2013 which never fell into recession \u2013 has enjoyed a rapid recovery from the global downturn. Its economy grew at an annual rate of 10.3% in the second quarter, compared with 1.7% in the US, although China's growth is set to have slowed in the third quarter. The figures are due on Thursday.The rapid growth has pushed up wages, food and property prices in the country. Consumer prices rose 3.5% in August, led by a 7.5% rise in food prices.", "tags": ["Currencies", "Business", "Interest rates", "Economics", "Global economy", "China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China rate rise: Q&A"},{"date": "2010-10-12T16:31:01Z", "country": "china", "content": "It may not be easy to reconcile the recent pledges by the Chinese premier that China will carry out political reforms with its official, outraged reaction to the Nobel peace prize awarded to the dissident Liu Xiaobo, a former teacher at Beijing Normal University who joined us student protesters in the Tiananmen uprising. But for China watchers \u2013 and for those of us involved in the rights struggle in China \u2013 the cries of \"a blasphemy\" and threats of diplomatic repercussions for Norway came as no surprise. This is the reaction to be expected from a government that does not tolerate dissent \u2013 and will never carry out reforms without a lot more pressure than it has received in the past two decades.The petulant rhetoric of misunderstood authoritarian regimes can strike an amusing note (when the Dalai Lama won the 1989 prize, Beijing retorted that he was a \"wolf in monk's robes\"). But China is not a \"hermit state\" like North Korea or Myanmar. It is the world's second largest economy and, not so long ago, it was host to the Olympics. And this is the reason that the Norwegian Nobel peace prize committee's decision to turn the screws should not only be applauded, but welcomed. It is hopefully the first of many steps the west will carry out to put pressure on China and ensure that premier Wen Jiabao's calls for political reform are more than just a sop to critics abroad.The time has come for the world to begin to engage China intelligently \u2013 something it has not done in the past 21 years I have been in exile. It is time to abandon the delusional notion that economic prosperity will lead to political reform \u2013 it hasn't and it won't. It is also time to abandon the specious argument that China's \"special conditions\" justify authoritarian one-party rule. Yes, China is a big country but that does not automatically strip its people of rights we hold to be fundamental elsewhere.We don't have to look far to find two examples of authoritarian command economies that once imprisoned dissent and stifled free speech and are now prosperous democracies: South Korea and Taiwan. The west played a role in their transition \u2013 encouraging free trade and applying pressure when it came to human rights. It is time to take the same approach to China.Pressure will not transform China into a thriving democracy any time soon. But it would provide hope to brave Chinese who struggle for voices to be heard and are seeking redress for land grabs, forced relocations and illegal detainment of petitioners among a host of other injustices.In 1989, we exiled student protesters were received well in the west. We faced tanks and machine guns in Beijing, but we had the support of the rest of the world. This made us believe that with the support of the international community we could help pressure China into becoming a freer and more tolerant place. Unfortunately, all too quickly, it was business as normal and Tiananmen became an inconvenience. Before meeting us or giving us a venue to voice our views, people began to consider what kind of message that would send to the Chinese regime.But not meeting us and sweeping our views aside sent another message to the Chinese regime \u2013 that the human rights movement in China was no longer relevant to the outside world, and we had become insignificant. I have been told as much during the course of my long and failed negotiations to either be allowed to return to China or for my parents to be issued passports so they can visit me.Hopefully, the Nobel prize committee's decision to recognize Liu will be a reminder to Beijing that human rights in China have not been forgotten. Hopefully it will be a reminder to others in the west that it is still possible to put principles ahead of business interests.Chinese dissidents like Liu will continue to play the role they have done while the rest of the world mostly looked the other way. This is a common responsibility for all of us at odds with the regime in China \u2013 no matter whether in exile or facing injustice at home. But it is also a global responsibility because it is in global interests. Applying pressure where pressure is due is the only way to make China a more responsible partner on the world stage. And a freer, more transparent and more accountable China is a China that the world can talk to and negotiate with. To fail to engage with China in this way is to passively encourage China to go its own way, to make up its own rules.Engaging with China is not only the right thing to do; it would be wrong not to do so. To not act is a kind of appeasement, and it sends a message to China that it can do what it likes with impunity. If we want to see a China whose astounding economic growth is matched by a political culture that speaks our language, we have to act together to bring that culture into existence.I hope the peace committee's latest decision inspires people worldwide to imagine that the message we send the Chinese regime does not have to be the one it wants to hear. The alternative is to risk another Tiananmen \u2013 or the creation of an intractable world power that tolerates dissenting opinions abroad as little as it does at home.", "tags": ["China", "Liu Xiaobo", "Nobel peace prize", "Protest", "Human rights", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Keeping the pressure on China | Wu'er Kaixi"},{"date": "2010-11-11T12:00:01Z", "country": "china", "content": "It's hard to avoid superlatives when describing China. The country's landmass is enormous, covering roughly 9.6m sq km, with a huge population of some 1.3 billion people. Having recently overtaken Japan as the world's second largest economy, it is well on the way to cementing a dominant position on the global markets. Yet one key fact to understand about China is that these developments are seen as nothing new, but a return to the old order of things. During the Tang dynasty (AD618-907) a census from the year 750 revealed a population of one million within the walls of the capital city, Chang'an, making it the largest city in the world at the time. And it was not just its size that was spectacular. The Chinese capital was probably the most powerful economic centre in the ancient world, attracting traders from the west who travelled along the Silk Road to buy and sell. There were Arabs, Persians and Sogdian traders from Samarkand, whose spiritual needs were served by mosques and Zoroastrian temples in the cosmopolitan city.The Chinese pride themselves on having the longest continuous civilisation in the world, although the massive state we know today took time to develop. From isolated Neolithic settlements scattered across the landmass, the great bronze age cultures of the Shang (c1500\u2013c1050BC) and Zhou (c1050\u2013221BC) developed in the north along the Yellow River. As Zhou polity fell apart, the northern part of China was divided between smaller states, many of which built defensive walls, precursors of the Great Wall. In 221BC, the First Emperor conquered all the other states and established his rule over a unified state stretching from the north of Beijing down to the northern border of the Guangdong province and from the far western Sichuan area to the eastern seaboard. This was most of the China we know today \u2013 in fact the name \"China\" derives from the First Emperor's home state of Qin (pronounced \"Chin\") on the Wei river.The First Emperor quickly established an administration to maintain control of this vast landmass. Armed with legal handbooks, texts inscribed on narrow slips of bamboo, tied together and rolled up like tiny bamboo blinds, his officials established a system of law: they set out official standards for weights and measures that were checked rigorously \u2013 swindling offences were punished with sentences of hard labour on imperial walls and roads \u2013 and they conducted forensic investigations into suspicious deaths. A standardised coinage was also introduced: a new form of a circular coin with a square hole in the middle, which was used for more than 2,000 years until 1911. Even now the shape forms a major decorative emblem in ceramics and textiles.In China, the First Emperor's rule is traditionally remembered as that of an unnecessarily harsh tyrant (contrasting with the \"good guys\" from the Han dynasty). Yet the First Emperor also managed to set up a relatively modern, forward-looking legal system that lasted 2,000 years, whereby trained administrators were sent out all over the country to govern by statute. What was right and what was wrong was now no longer subject to the whim of erratic autocrats, but out there for everyone to see. If you stole a sheep, you knew the consequences. China's legal system was described by Jesuit missionaries in the 18th century and admired by Enlightenment thinkers who saw it as a great improvement on rule by hereditary aristocrats.Furthermore, a legal code was promoted that included a concession about legal responsibility. Unlike in Europe, though, it was not based on a person's age. In China even today, on the doors of buses and beside ticket offices in stations and at tourist sites, there is a metre-high mark, indicating that those under a metre in height can enter or travel for free.Another of the First Emperor's decrees was a standardisation of the Chinese script. Though it had been in use for around two millennia, the script had developed into different local forms during the so-called Spring and Autumn period (770\u2013476BC) and Warring States period (475\u2013221BC). After the rule of the First Emperor, there was some further standardisation during the Han dynasty (206BC\u2013AD220), which created the unifying script that has been used ever since. Though it is clear that the pronunciation of Chinese has changed over the millennia, an educated person can still read Han dynasty texts with a fair amount of ease. The sheer difference of Chinese script from other writing systems \u2013 non-alphabetic, with tens of thousands of separate characters \u2013 is a source of national pride. The status of the art of calligraphy is equal to that of painting and has, at times, been higher. Even Mao Zedong, better known in the west as a communist tyrant bent on destroying traditional Chinese culture, prided himself on the wild, \"grass-style\" calligraphy in which he wrote his poems.With the ancient language came ancient traditions and beliefs. In another pattern established by the First Emperor, it was customary for rulers to travel the country, offering sacrifices on the sacred mountains to appease the gods and please rain-bearing dragons. These tours also enabled the emperors to gain an impression of how well their local officials were administering the country, maintaining the delicate balance between the collection of grain and other goods such as tax, and sustaining the life of the peasants by supplying grain relief in times of shortage and keeping up flood defences along China's turbulent rivers. Though the Ming emperors (AD1368\u20131644) were inclined to stay at home, their successors, the invading Manchus from the north-east who established the Qing dynasty (1644\u20131911), revived the practice with enthusiasm. They particularly favoured southern China with their \"southern tours of inspection\", known as nan xun. The Kangxi emperor (1654\u20131722) and the Qianlong emperor (1711\u20131799) were particularly interested in the south, and in southern food and culture. These northerners from the cold Manchurian plains were particularly impressed by the rich, rice-growing, silk-producing cultural centres of Hangzhou, Suzhou and Wuxi. The Qianlong emperor commissioned a copy of the Jichangyuan (Garden of Ease of Mind) in Wuxi to be constructed in the Summer Palace outside Beijing, where it can still be seen today. Both emperors enjoyed southern food so much they retrained their personal cooks \u2013 southern fruits such as lychees and mangoes were soon shipped up the Grand Canal for the imperial kitchens.A more sinister aspect of the traditional respect for language and script is China's long tradition of censorship. It is said that in 213BC, the First Emperor, enraged by conservative critics, ordered a great bonfire in which ancient Confucian texts were destroyed. In 1772, as part of a massive collection of texts to form a huge imperial encyclopaedia, the Qianlong emperor also instructed his officials to seek out seditious works that criticised Manchu rule in what became known as \"the literary inquisition of Qianlong\". During the Cultural Revolution (1966\u20131976) in a bid to destroy the \"four olds\" \u2013 old customs, culture, habits and ideas \u2013 vast quantities of books, paintings, family photographs and works of art were destroyed in a campaign that was remarkably similar to that of the First Emperor's burning of the books.The technological innovations of China's past not only enabled the construction of massive canal networks for transport and improved agricultural techniques but also helped make possible complex and beautiful art objects. They range from the dramatic bronzes of the Shang and Zhou, through the three-coloured ceramic camels of the Tang and the monochrome elegance of Song porcelains (960\u20131279), to the embroidered robes of the Qing. Museums all over the world display aspects of China's artistic achievements. Many demonstrate the ingenuity of China's craftsmen, often working without external stimuli but making their own discoveries. The massive bronzes of 3,000 years ago are unlike those found anywhere else in the world. They were made not by the lost-wax process but in ceramic moulds \u2013 testimony to the skill of the ceramic workers as well as the bronze founders. Porcelain was made in China and perfected a thousand years before European ceramicists groped their way towards the secret of its manufacture. Silk cultivation and weaving were invented in China many thousands of years ago: cut silk cocoons have been discovered in Neolithic sites and silk fabrics survive from Warring States tombs. Silk is probably China's most magical export: a fine yet strong material that was exported along the Silk Road to Rome in the second century BC. The Romans mistakenly believed that it was combed from trees, so the secret of its origin and production were not known outside China until AD522, when production began in Byzantium. Porcelain began to be exported from China in great quantities in the late Tang dynasty and, as European ships began to arrive, first in south-east Asia and eventually in 17th century China, porcelain became a very popular commodity, with European houses filling up with blue and white dishes and bowls.Technological achievements such as gunpowder and the maritime compass are often cited as some of China's most influential gifts to the world. Yet perhaps the greatest legacy was the invention of paper, an essential prerequisite for printing and mass production. Paper and printing were both invented in China \u2013 archaeologists have found paper remains from the second century BC, though according to the standard history of the Han dynasty, the first official mention of the technology was in AD\u00a0105 when the imperial factories officially reported its production to the emperor. Used to make rubbings of significant stone inscriptions such as the Confucian classics in the second century AD, the mass production of paper must have played a part in the invention of woodblock printing in China in about the sixth century, opening up the possibility of cheap mass communication long before Gutenberg's invention of the printing press in Europe. Like silk, paper was used along the Silk Road from the third century BC and by the 10th century had reached Sicily and Spain through the Arab conquests.Paradoxically, even though Chinese products spread across the world to great acclaim, the country itself was little known outside Asia. The arrival of the western nations, intent on trade, coincided with China's decline in the 19th and 20th centuries, a period that now looks like a very short blip in China's long history of economic and cultural success. The decline was internal, caused by expensive wars waged by the Qing emperors, by population growth and a failure to maintain local order. And it was exacerbated by the impatient pressure of western traders, culminating in the two Opium Wars (1839\u20131842 and 1856).The 20th century saw a disastrous period of division and the cruel Japanese invasion, followed by a civil war, after which Mao Zedong and the Communist Party took power in 1949. Since the death of Mao in 1976, new policies have seen the gradual growth of China to its present economic success.Despite its cultural heritage and the dramatic performance of the national economy, and perhaps partly because of the knocks it took in the Cultural Revolution, China has been slow to recover confidence after 200 years of disaster and disunion. There is a widespread tendency to dwell on the humiliation of the Opium Wars, and to regard any setback as a further humiliation of the same sort. China's failure to secure the 2000 and 2004 Olympic Games still rankles, despite the extraordinary spectacle of the 2008 Beijing Olympics. Even the existence of Chinese porcelain in European museums is sometimes resented and regarded as loot even though the vast majority of the pieces were acquired quite legitimately.As China's economy takes off, perhaps sensitivity to 19th century humiliations can be overcome by pride in the earlier past. Occasionally one gets a glance of the self-belief that China's ancient memory can engender. In the 1980s, I met an old monk on the Buddhist mountain of Jiuhua Shan. \"England...\" he said after I had introduced myself. \"You have a queen, don't you? She must be very old by now\". Only as I started my descent did I realise that he had been thinking of Queen Victoria.Frances Wood is head of the Chinese department at the British Library. Her publications include Did Marco Polo Go To China?, The Silk Road, The First Emperor and The Diamond Sutra", "tags": ["Culture", "China", "Archaeology", "Science", "World news", "Art and design", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "The Ancient World | China"},{"date": "2010-10-13T12:00:03Z", "country": "china", "content": "Dear members of the standing committee of the National People's Congress:Article 35 of China's constitution as adopted in 1982 clearly states that: \"Citizens of the People's Republic of China enjoy freedom of speech, of the press, of assembly, of association, of procession and of demonstration.\" For 28 years this article has stood unrealised, having been negated by detailed rules and regulations for \"implementation\". This false democracy of formal avowal and concrete denial has become a scandalous mark on the history of world democracy.On 26 February 2003, at a meeting of democratic consultation between the standing committee of the political bureau of the central committee of the Chinese Communist party and democratic parties, not long after President Hu Jintao assumed office, he stated clearly: \"The removal of restrictions on the press, and the opening up of public opinion positions, is a mainstream view and demand held by society; it is natural, and should be resolved through the legislative process. If the Communist party does not reform itself, if it does not transform, it will lose its vitality and move toward natural and inevitable extinction.\"On 3 October, America's Cable News Network (CNN) aired an interview with Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao by anchor Fareed Zakaria. Responding to the journalist's questions, Wen said: \"Freedom of speech is indispensable for any nation; China's constitution endows the people with freedom of speech; the demands of the people for democracy cannot be resisted.\"In accord with China's constitution, and in the spirit of the remarks made by Hu and Wen, we hereupon represent the following concerning the materialisation of the constitutional rights to freedom of speech and of the press.We have for 61 years \"served as master\" in the name of the citizens of the People's Republic of China. But the freedom of speech and of the press we now enjoy is inferior even to that of Hong Kong before its return to Chinese sovereignty, to that entrusted to the residents of a colony.Before the handover, Hong Kong was a British colony, governed by those appointed by the Queen's government. But the freedom of speech and freedom of the press given to residents of Hong Kong by the British authorities there was not empty, appearing only on paper. It was enacted and realised.When our country was founded in 1949, our people cried that they had been liberated, that they were not their own masters. Mao Zedong said that \"from this moment, the people of China have stood\". But even today, 61 years after the founding of our nation, after 30 years of opening and reform, we have not yet attained freedom of speech and freedom of the press to the degree enjoyed by the people of Hong Kong under colonial rule. Even now, many books discussing political and current affairs must be published in Hong Kong. This is not something that dates from the [territory's] return, but is merely an old tactic familiar under colonial rule. The \"master\" status of the people of China's mainland is so inferior. For our nation to advertise itself as having \"socialist democracy\" with Chinese characteristics is such an embarrassment.Not only the average citizen, but even the most senior leaders of the Communist party have no freedom of speech or press. Recently, Li Rui met with the following circumstance. Not long ago, the Collected Works in Memory of Zhou Xiaozhou were published, and it originally included an essay commemorating Zhou that Li had written for the People's Daily in 1981. Zhou's wife phoned Li to explain the situation: \"Beijing has sent out a notice. Li Rui's writings cannot be published.\" What incredible folly it is that an old piece of writing from a party newspaper cannot be included in a volume of collected works! Li said: \"What kind of country is this?! I want to cry it out: the press must be free! Such strangling of the people's freedom of expression is entirely illegal!\"It's not even just high-level leaders \u2013 even the premier of our country does not have freedom of speech or of the press. On 21 August 2010, Wen gave a speech in Shenzhen called, \"Only by pushing ahead with reforms can our nation have bright prospects.\" He said: \"We must not only push economic reforms, but also promote political reforms. Without the protection afforded by political reforms, the gains we have made from economic reforms will be lost, and our goal of modernisation cannot be realised.\" Xinhua news agency's official news release on 21 August, \"Building a beautiful future for the special economic zone\", omitted the content in Wen's speech dealing with political reform.On 22 September, Wen held a dialogue in New York with American Chinese media and media from Hong Kong and Macao, and again emphasised the importance of \"political system reforms\". Wen said: \"Concerning political reforms, I have said previously that if economic reforms are without the protection to be gained by political reforms, then we cannot be entirely successful, and even perhaps the gains of our progress so far will be lost.\" Shortly after, Wen addressed the 65th session of the United Nations general assembly, giving a speech called \"Recognising a true China\", in which he spoke again about political reform. Late on 23 September, these events were reported on China Central Television's Xinwen Lianbo and in an official news release from Xinhua news agency. They reported only Wen's remarks on the circumstances facing overseas Chinese, and on the importance of overseas Chinese media. His mentions of political reform were all removed.For these matters, if we endeavour to find those responsible, we are utterly incapable of putting our finger on a specific person. This is the work of invisible hands. For their own reasons, they violate our constitution, often ordering by telephone that the works of such and such a person cannot be published, or that such and such an event cannot be reported in the media. The officials who make the call do not leave their names, and the secrecy of the agents is protected, but you must heed their phone instructions. These invisible hands are our central propaganda department. Right now the department is placed above the central committee of the Communist party, and above the state council. We would ask, what right does the central propaganda department have to muzzle the speech of the premier? What right does it have to rob the people of our nation of their right to know what the premier has said?Our core demand is that the system of censorship be dismantled in favour of a system of legal responsibility.The rights to freedom of speech and the press guaranteed in article 35 of our constitution are turned into mere adornments for the walls by means of concrete implementation rules such as the \"ordinance on publishing control\". These implementation rules are, broadly speaking, a system of censorship and approvals. There are countless numbers of commandments and taboos restricting freedom of speech and freedom of the press. The creation of a press law and the abolishment of the censorship system has already become an urgent task before us.We recommend that the National People's Congress work immediately toward the creation of a press law, and that the ordinance on publishing control and local restrictions on news and publishing be annulled. Institutionally speaking, the realisation of freedom of speech and freedom of the press as guaranteed in the constitution means making media independent of the party and government organs that presently control them, thereby transforming \"party mouthpieces\" into \"public instruments.\"Therefore, the foundation of the creation of a press law must be the enacting of a system of [post facto] legal responsibility [determined according to fair laws]. We cannot again strengthen the censorship system in the name of \"strengthening the leadership of the party\". The so-called censorship system is the system by which prior to publication one must receive the approval of party organs, allowing for publication only after approval and designating all unapproved published materials as illegal. The so-called system of legal responsibility means that published materials need not pass through approval by party or government organs, but may be published as soon as the editor-in-chief deems fit. If there are unfavourable outcomes or disputes following publication, the government would be able to intervene and determine according to the law whether there are cases of wrongdoing.In countries around the world, the development of rule of law in news and publishing has followed this path, making a transition from systems of censorship to systems of legal responsibility. There is little doubt that systems of legal responsibility mark progress over systems of censorship, and this is greatly in the favour of the development of the humanities and natural sciences, and in promoting social harmony and historical progress. England did away with censorship in 1695. France abolished its censorship system in 1881, and the publication of newspapers and periodicals thereafter required only a simple declaration, which was signed by the representatives of the publication and mailed to the office of the procurator of the republic. Our present system of censorship leaves news and book publishing in our country 315 years behind England and 129 years behind France.1. Abolish sponsoring institutions of [Chinese] media, allowing publishing institutions to operate independently; and truly implement a system in which directors and editors-in-chief are responsible for their publication units.2. Respect journalists and make them strong. Journalists should be the \"uncrowned kings\". The reporting of mass incidents and exposing of official corruption are noble missions on behalf of the people, and this work should be protected and supported. Immediately put a stop to the unconstitutional behaviour of various local governments and police in arresting journalists. Look into the circumstances behind the case of writer Xie Chaoping. Liang Fengmin, the party secretary of Weinan city [involved in the Xie Chaoping case] must face party discipline as a warning to others.3. Abolish restrictions on extra-territorial supervision by public opinion by the media, ensuring the right of journalists to carry out reporting freely throughout the country.4. The internet is an important discussion platform for information in our society and citizens' views. Aside from information that truly concerns our national secrets and speech that violates a citizen's right to privacy, internet regulatory bodies must not arbitrarily delete online posts and online comments. Online spies must be abolished, the \"fifty-cent party\" must be abolished, and restrictions on anti-censorship technologies must be abolished.5. There are no more taboos concerning our party's history. Chinese citizens have a right to know the errors of the ruling party.6. Southern Weekly and Yanhuang Chunqiu should be permitted to restructure as privately operated pilot programmes in the independent media. The privatisation of newspapers and periodicals is the natural direction of political reforms. History teaches us: when rulers and deliberators are highly unified, when the government and the media are both surnamed \"party\", and when the party sings for its own pleasure, it is difficult to connect with the will of the people and attain true leadership. From the time of the great leap forward to the time of the cultural revolution, newspapers, magazines, television and radio in the mainland have never truly reflected the will of the people. Party and government leaders have been insensible to dissenting voices, so they have had difficulty in recognising and correcting wholesale errors. For a ruling party and government to use the tax money of the people to run media that sing their own praises is something not permitted in democratic nations.7. Permit the free circulation within the mainland of books and periodicals from Hong Kong and Macao. Our country has joined the World Trade Organisation, and economically we have already integrated with the world \u2013 attempting to remain closed culturally goes against the course already plotted for opening and reform. Hong Kong and Macao offer advanced culture right at our nation's door, and the books and periodicals of Hong Kong and Macao are welcomed and trusted by the people.8. Transform the functions of various propaganda organs, so that they are transformed from agencies setting down so many \"taboos\" to agencies protecting the accuracy, timeliness and unimpeded flow of information; from agencies that assist corrupt officials in suppressing and controlling stories that reveal the truth to agencies that support the media in monitoring party and government organs; from agencies that close publications, fire editors and arrest journalists to agencies that oppose power and protect media and journalists. Our propaganda organs have a horrid reputation within the party and in society. They must work for good in order to regain their reputations. At the appropriate time, we can consider renaming these propaganda organs to suit global trends.We represent ourselves, hoping for your utmost attention.Signed:Li Rui, former standing vice minister of the organisation department of the CCP central committee, member of the 12th central committee of the CCPHu Jiwei, former director of People's Daily, standing committee member to the 7th National People's Congress, director of the Federation of Chinese Communication InstitutesJiang Ping, former head of the China University of Political Science and Law, tenured professor, standing committee member to the 7th National People's Congress, deputy director of the executive law committee of the NPCLi Pu, former deputy director of Xinhua news agencyZhou Shaoming, former deputy director of the political department of the Guangzhou military area commandZhong Peizhang, former head of the news office of the central propaganda departmentWang Yongcheng, professor at Shanghai Jiaotong UniversityZhang Zhongpei, researcher at the Imperial Palace museum, chairman of the China Archaeological SocietyDu Guang, former professor at the Central Party SchoolGuo Daojun, former editor-in-chief of China Legal ScienceXiao Mo, former head of the Architecture Research Centre of the Chinese National Academy of ArtsZhuang Puming, former deputy director of People's PressHu Fuchen, former director and editor-in-chief at China Worker's Publishing HouseZhang Ding, former director of the China Social Sciences Press at the Chinese Academy of Social SciencesYu You, former editor-in-chief of China DailyOuyang Jin, former editor-in-chief of Hong Kong's Pacific magazineYu Haocheng, former director of Masses Publishing HouseZhang Qing, former director of China Cinema Publishing HouseYu Yueting, former director of Fujian Television, veteran journalistSha Yexin, former head of the Shanghai People's Art and Drama Academy, now an independent writer of the Hui ethnic minoritySun Xupei, former director of the News Research Institute at the Chinese Academy of Social SciencesXin Ziling, former director of the editorial desk at China National Defence UniversityTie Liu, editor-in-chief of Wangshi Weihen magazine (Scars of the Past).Legal Counsel\uff1aSong Yue, Chinese citizen, practicing lawyer in the State of New York, USThis translation was made by the University of Hong Kong's China Media Project and was first posted here.", "tags": ["China", "Freedom of speech", "Censorship", "Civil liberties - international", "Journalist safety", "Communism", "Media", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China must abandon censorship | Open letter"},{"date": "2010-12-14T12:16:12Z", "country": "china", "content": "Dirty tricks by multinationals, political corruption and the erosion of an African success story have been among the stories that have emerged from the leaked US embassy cables over the past fortnight.The leaked cables, published by WikiLeaks, say that drug company Pfizer hired investigators to find evidence of corruption on the Nigerian attorney general to persuade him to drop legal action over a controversial meningitis drug trial.The cables also highlight rampant corruption in Kenya that threatens to push the country towards violence on a scale worse than that seen after the 2008 presidential election, and uncovers the scale of influence the oil giant Shell wields in Nigeria.Meanwhile, the Ugandan president's \"autocratic tendencies\" come under scrutiny, which, along with corruption, a population explosion and \"sharpening ethnic divisions\" is ruining Uganda's image as an African success story.Coinciding with the publication of his book Beyond the Crash, Madeleine Bunting examines Gordon Brown's passion for development, which seems at odds with his enthusiasm for globalisation, and asks if Britain's former prime minister is vying for a top job at the IMF.Jonathan Glennie argues that while African leaders may prefer to deal with China, rather than the US and Europe, any money from Beijing will still come with strings attached.And Kelly Nicholls writes about the publication of a report that reveals the hidden human tragedy of the 30,000 \"disappeared\" in Colombia.Later this week, we'll launch this month's Global development Focus podcast, which will explore the involvement of celebrities in aid and development. Visit our Talk point section and tell us which celebrities you think do the most good, or the most harm, and nominate those you think we should discuss in the podcast, which will be recorded on Thursday.To mark the Global development website's first Christmas, we'll be publishing a quiz over the festive period to test your knowledge of our coverage of the issues over the past four months.And with 2011 just around the corner, we'll look back at what 2010 did for global development, and look ahead to what the new year could bring.Gallery: South Sudan: the challenge ahead. In January, south Sudan votes on whether to split from the north. National Geographic photographer Karen Kasmasuki, who works with the humanitarian organisation Cafod, visited Sudan and examines the challenges that lie ahead, regardless of the outcome of the referendum.Video: Mozambique: Changing weather patterns and livelihoods. Weather in the Zambezi flood plain has become so unpredictable that subsistence farmers in Mozambique are having to adapt and diversify into different livelihoods.Video: Child labourers on Malawi's tobacco farms. Vulnerable children are being exposed to hazardous working conditions in the tobacco industry. It is estimated that more than 78,000 children work on tobacco estates across Malawi, some up to 12 hours a day, many for less than 1p an hour.On the Talk point article asking for views on the involvement of celebrities in global development, a senior NGO communications manager, who wished to remain anonymous, said:On a blog about tax payments in poor countries, Poverty Focus writes:On Richard Mallett's blog on why aid should not be used to meet the UK's security agenda, NickYoung writes:On AidWatch, William Eastely compares the campaigning credentials of John Lennon and Bono and ponders the \"death of the celebrity activist\".Owen Barder responds to the World Bank's Shanta Devarajan on whether increased social accountability is the answer to \"Development 3.0\".Rachel Godfrey Wood, of the IIED, speculates on the Due South blog, on Iran \"sleep-walking\" towards a progressive universal income grant.", "tags": ["Global development"], "title": "Corruption, China and Gordon Brown"},{"date": "2010-12-03T16:19:27Z", "country": "china", "content": "China's English-language newspaper, China Daily, appeared on newsstands across Europe today.The special weekly issue is being distributed in nine European countries. It follows the launch of similar editions in the United States and Hong Kong.Renzhong Zhi, general manager of China Daily UK, said: \"We identified a gap to provide a useful source of news and analysis to European businesses seeking to better understand and engage with China.\"As more partnerships develop between China and the West, it is crucial that there exists a regular source of insight on changing trends.\"He explained that there would be some breaking news, but the majority of the paper would seek \"to provide a more in-depth review of headlines of the week \u2013 a useful guide to help readers understand the emerging opportunities that exist between China and Europe.\"There is a website here Source: Bell Pottinger press release", "tags": ["Media", "China", "Newspapers", "World news", "Europe", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China Daily launches Europe issue"},{"date": "2010-11-18T12:22:13Z", "country": "china", "content": "China today denied US allegations that it \"hijacked\" highly sensitive internet traffic \u2013 including emails sent to and from US military websites \u2013 earlier this year.A state-owned telecoms company in China had access to 15% of global internet traffic, including confidential emails from Nasa and the US army, for 18 minutes in April, according to an annual security report delivered to the US congress on Wednesday.The report warned that the capture \"could enable severe malicious activities\" by China. The state-owned company accused of \"hijacking\" the encrypted information, China Telecom, today denied \"any hijack of internet traffic\".Online security experts say the capture represents \"one of the biggest hijacks\" of sensitive information in the history of the internet.Relations between China and the US \u2013 number one and two in the world, respectively, in terms of internet users \u2013 have long been fraught when it comes to the web.Earlier this year US technology giant Google said it was to stop censoring results on its Chinese search engine, following a sophisticated and allegedly state-sponsored cyber attack directed at the company. China earlier accused the US of making \"groundless accusations\" about restrictions on internet freedom against the country.The US report said that some 15% of global internet traffic was routed through Chinese servers earlier this year, prompting worries that the country now has access to sensitive correspondence from US government bodies. US commissioner Larry Wortzel raised concerns on Wednesday that China would now \"get the internet addresses of everybody that communicated\" with the US armed services' chiefs of staff.The rerouting began at a smaller Chinese ISP called IDC China before being passed on to China Telecom, the report compiled by the US-China economic and security review commission claimed. Encrypted correspondence from the US senate, the department of defence and \"many others\" were among the huge amount of traffic captured by China.Dmitri Alperovitch, a threat research analyst at internet security firm McAfee, said the capture \"is one of the biggest \u2013 if not the biggest hijacks \u2013 we have ever seen\".\"No one except China Telecom operators\" know what happened to the traffic during those 18 minutes, Alperovitch added. \"The possibilities are numerous and troubling, but definitive answers are unknown.\"", "tags": ["Internet", "Data and computer security", "Technology", "China", "World news", "Digital media", "Media", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China denies 'hijacking' internet traffic"},{"date": "2010-10-29T23:07:47Z", "country": "china", "content": "On 1 October 1954, Sir Hugh Casson, the urbane professor of interior design who had been director of architecture at the Festival of Britain, found himself standing by the Tiananmen Gate in the ancient and still walled city of Peking. In China to present a statement of friendship signed by nearly 700 British scientists and artists, he was watching a parade that the reporter James Cameron reckoned to be \"the greatest show on earth\". First came the troops and the \"military ironwork\", grinding past for a full hour. This was followed by a much longer civil parade in which the people marched by in barely imaginable numbers, beaming with joy at their elevated leaders who gazed back with the slightly \"subdued\" expression of still unaccustomed new emperors.Float after float rolled by, showing model factories and locomotives. Children released balloons and elastic-powered model aeroplanes; the masses united to cry \"Down with American imperialism\"; and Picasso's peace dove was everywhere. Having recently migrated from earlier European congresses, this simplified bird appeared to have usurped the traditional dragons of Peking.The spectacle with which China celebrated the fifth anniversary of the communist liberation was brilliantly organised, as Casson felt obliged to admit. He was less impressed by the admiring expressions worn by many of the other international guests: \"Gold-rimmed spectacles misted with emotion, cheeks creased with years of well-meant service in this cause or in that, shirts defiantly open at the neck, badges in lapels, and there in the middle \u2013 could it have been? \u2013 an MCC tie.\"That particular specimen was Ivor Montagu, a cricket-loving friend and translator of the great Soviet film-maker Sergei Eisenstein. He was also a table tennis champion who preferred \"New China's\" disciplined \"physical jerks\" to the indolence of a capitalist world in which \"rich men\" disdained even walking as \"something you paid those less fortunate to do on your behalf\". And he was by no means alone in his enthusiasm for \"New China\".Sickened by the rapture of the communist regime's ardent western friends, Casson quickly retreated to the shaded \"rest room\" beneath the viewing stand. Here he lingered among yellow-robed Tibetan lamas, sipping tea and exchanging impressions with other doubtful Britons: the classically minded and no longer Marxist novelist and poet Rex Warner, and AJ Ayer, the high-living logical positivist who would come home to tell the BBC that China's parade had reminded him of the Nuremberg rallies. They may also have caught a fleeting glimpse of the Marxist crystallographer JD Bernal, who had no MCC tie but was sporting his Stalin prize medal, collected in Moscow on the way to China. Bernal was full of admiration for New China and its celebrations, but as hour followed hour he too descended from the stand to spend a moment \"sipping orange juice through a straw\" at the same table as the dalai lama.Enraptured or appalled, none of these British witnesses appears to have regretted the absence of Stanley Spencer. The 63-year-old painter, so famously associated with the little Berkshire village of Cookham, had managed to escape the entire show \u2013 thanks, he later explained, to \"some Mongolians\", whose timely arrival at the hotel that morning had provided the cover under which he retreated upstairs to his room.It was the discovery that Spencer had been to China that persuaded me to look further into this forgotten episode. I soon realised that an extraordinary assortment of Britons had made their way to China in 1954, including the former prime minister and leader of the Labour Party, Clement Attlee. And all this nearly two decades before 1972, when President Nixon made the stage-managed and \u2013 even before John Adams got hold of it \u2013 distinctly operatic visit that has gone down in history as the moment when the west entered rapprochement with the People's Republic of China. Were these motley British visitors just credulous idiots, for whom \"Red China\" was another version of the legendary Cathay? That is what the 24-year-old Douglas Hurd and the other diplomats in the British embassy compound in Peking appear to have suspected of these unwelcome freeloaders. Or was something more significant going on?Nowadays, the rapidly increasing number of British travellers to China think nothing of getting on a plane to fly directly there. Yet Spencer had good reason to feel \"trembly\" as he and the five other members of his entirely unofficial cultural delegation approached the runway at Heathrow on 14 September 1954. Though Britain had recognised China a few months after the liberation, it had yet to establish proper diplomatic relations with the communist-led government, and the embarking Britons couldn't pick up a visa until they had reached Prague. That meant crossing the iron curtain dividing Europe. \"Did you go under or over it?\" one joker would later ask, making light of a passage that was actually more like falling over the edge of the known world. The travellers then had to fly across east Europe, pausing at Minsk and Moscow before heading across Siberia and then Mongolia \u2013 all the time relying on their hosts to finance, accommodate and entertain them, and also to provide the vibrating twin-prop planes in which they would hop to the far side of the world, landing every three hours or so to refuel.\"There are bears in there,\" Spencer mused, glancing anxiously down into a nameless Soviet forest at a moment when the engine sputtered \"Fit! Fit! Fit!\" There were troubles at home too. The cold war was entrenched, its dangers exacerbated by the advance of nuclear weaponry on both sides. Britain, meanwhile, was financially straitened, and reliant on loans from America, which demanded adherence to Washington's hard-line foreign policy including its trade embargoes against Russia and China. Under these circumstances, it was by no means just a handful of disgruntled communists and export-hungry businessmen who yearned to make Britain's political outlook more independent. The loss of power gave a distinctly anti-American resonance to the patriotic lament of Shakespeare's John of Gaunt \u2013 that \"This England\" should ever be \"leas'd\u00a0out . . . Like to a tenement, or pelting\u00a0farm\".China remained hostile and isolated behind the recently lowered \"bamboo curtain\". Nevertheless, by the beginning of 1954 a thaw had begun to seem possible. Stalin had died in March 1953, and the Korean war had been brought to a ceasefire not long afterwards. There were indications that Moscow and its Chinese ally might be interested in making more than a slogan out of \"peaceful coexistence\" with the west. It was, however, France's losing war in the area then known as \"French Indo-China\" that persuaded many in western Europe to adopt a more optimistic view of \"New China\" than President Eisenhower's bomb-wreathed \"domino theory\" of Asia's imminent fall to communism.On the morning of Saturday 24 April, the Chinese prime minister and foreign secretary, Zhou Enlai, flew into Geneva from Moscow. He came at the head of a large Chinese delegation to join France, Britain and Russia in a conference aimed at finding a settlement to the Indo-China war. Previously, west Europeans had known the Chinese leader only through anti-communist stereotypes, or the equally partisan hymns of praise issued by witnesses such as Hewlett Johnson, the inordinately optimistic \"Red Dean of Canterbury\".But here he now was, anything but a Russian puppet or, for that matter, a primitive \"agrarian reformer\" of the kind many in the west imagined the Chinese communists to be. Diverse western Europeans were transfixed by the sight of this urbane and highly competent man, smiling into the cameras as he berated America \u2013 which had refused even to take part in the conference \u2013 and demonstrating his abilities as a regional leader by negotiating ceasefires in Laos, Cambodia and Vietnam. Later in the year, James Cameron would describe Zhou as the man who, in the course of his short visit to Geneva, had produced \"the simultaneous double-effect\" of \"a nervous constriction in the diplomatic hearts and a violent sexual impulse in the persons of almost every European woman who clapped eyes on him\".The flights to Peking began shortly after Zhou's European triumph. From Geneva, as at the Bandung conference the following year, Zhou invited the world to \"come and see\" what was going on behind the bamboo curtain. And Britons were among those who headed for the airport. The Labour leadership sent the opening delegation. Clement Attlee was at its head, accompanied by various other members of the National Executive Committee, including Aneurin Bevan and his former insurance minister Edith Summerskill.The cultural delegation, which comprised Casson, Warner, Ayer and Spencer, together with the geologist Leonard Hawkes and the young sinologist John Chinnery, followed later in the summer. Like the vague statement of friendship in its luggage, its membership had been decided by people close to the Britain-China Friendship Association, who were careful to come up with a group that could not easily be dismissed as communist fellow travellers. A delegation of Labour councillors and shop stewards was recruited at the last minute and guided, very reluctantly, by the communist \"artist-reporter\" Paul Hogarth. He had travelled a lot behind the iron curtain and could not now escape responsibility for chaperoning a very \"third rate\" Labour delegation whose members, as he told me, cared nothing for China new or old, and wanted only to get drunk at somebody else's expense. A more senior delegation of Labour MPs, including Barbara Castle, William Griffiths and various other \"Bevanites\" who had come into the Commons in the 1945 landslide, delayed its departure until early October so that its members could attend the Labour party conference, where they had joined Bevan in objecting, unsuccessfully, to Attlee's support of cold war policies.There were indeed some pilgrims among the travellers, who saw what they and China's presenters wanted them to see \u2013 docilely imbibing tea and statistics, smiling back at children in model nurseries, and sensing only a bright cooperative future in fields fertilised with the blood of murdered landlords. But the Attlee delegation was not like that. Its members had fought their own battles against communism in Britain, and they had been well briefed before leaving. They had also been given a detailed anticipation of the \"show\" they should expect from a collection of Chinese teachers, editors and intellectuals who had moved to Hong Kong. They liked the new marriage laws, the apparent abolition of prostitution, and also the new public health campaigns. As in Moscow, they were, perhaps, a little discomforted as they compared their own achievements while in government in Britain with China's prodigious construction of factories, mines, housing, schools and hospitals. They stood up to Mao over tea, deplored the regime's failure to do anything about the booming birth-rate and also criticised the communist-led government for imposing an absurdly distorted idea of the west on their people. If China really believed that the masses in the west sympathised with communism, and were only held down by an evil ruling class, then they might blunder into another war.Even those with strong communist loyalties tried to reduce China's exclusive reliance on the USSR. Thus, while JD Bernal was known for his mistaken support for the \"proletarian science\" of the bogus geneticist Trofim\u00a0Lysenko, he certainly did not spend his many lectures trying to convince New China's scientists to rely on such Soviet\u00a0models, arguing throughout for\u00a0a renewed exchange between Chinese scientists and their colleagues in the west.It was a similar situation with the artists Paul Hogarth and Denis Mathews. They were both happy to celebrate the liberation and the ongoing reconstruction of China. And yet they were also united in their opposition to the idea that Soviet socialist realism offered an adequate model for the future development of Chinese art. They argued this point forcefully with the artists who welcomed them and accompanied them around the country. Both insisted that it would be far better to consider the new forms of figuration pioneered by Picasso and Guttuso in western Europe.Meanwhile, confusion as well as unexpected light followed from the visitors' habit of applying British analogies to Chinese realities. Attlee himself praised New China's still expanding network of cooperatives, seeing in them the principle of \"voluntary action\" that William Beveridge had insisted was the necessary attendant to the welfare state. The national secretary of the Women's Cooperative Guild, Mabel Ridealgh, likened China's extensive cooperatives to those of her own organisation and joined Castle in comparing China's food distribution system to the Co-op in Britain.Earlier post-liberation visitors had already set about Englishing the new Chinese scene. \"It's the same in Marylebone High Street,\" the veteran actor Miles Malleson had remarked in 1953: he was thinking of New China's appetite for dramas with a contemporary message. Basil Davidson had reserved a different English comparison for a communist group leader in the southern city of Canton. Aware of what the regime's critics said about such watchful cadres, he insisted that she was \"as much a spy on her 50 families as the chairman of my parish council, in rural Essex, is a spy on me\".Hogarth was merely continuing in this line when he declared arriving in Shanghai to be like \"pulling into Manchester from Sheffield\", while Hangchow (Hangzhou) was like \"a South Coast English seaside resort whose better days lay at the beginning of the century\". He found a more original English line on China's revolutionary art. Visiting the Lu Xun museum in Shanghai, he enjoyed the discovery that those stark woodcuts, designed to galvanise illiterate peasants into action against both the Japanese and Chiang Kai-shek's reactionary nationalists, were descended from leafy English scenes portrayed by such far from revolutionary artists as Gwen Raverat, Robert Gibbings and Edward Bawden.There was a characteristically English way of looking at China's notoriously bloody \"agrarian reform\" too. In 1949, Mao had famously proclaimed that the Chinese people had at last \"stood up\", and Hogarth was happy to confirm that claim. His drawing of a \"Shansi peasant\" shows a man standing very upright indeed: clasping the wooden hayfork that rises next to his head, he stares back with a resolute expression that is neither cringing nor deferential.Made in the field, as was this determined artist-reporter's way, Hogarth's drawing evokes an English analogy already employed by Joseph Needham, Davidson and other visitors \u2013 the English Diggers and Levellers of the 17th century, who had torn down fences and set to work digging up the commons land stolen from them under the new Enclosure Acts.It was at once an evasive strategy and a concerted attempt to assert an English tradition uncompromised by a mutually hated British imperialism. Yet it was Spencer who raised the art of being English in New China to its strangest heights. Twenty years earlier, he had recorded the desire to write the story of his life as if it were a wandering \"journey to China\", and he had no sooner landed at the airfield outside Peking than he started peering around in startled recognition: \"As I drove along the roads from the airports to the towns it was almost comic to see these dreams of mine coming true on either side of the road.\" Other delegates cringed as he harassed the guides at various historical sites with peculiar offscript questions, and tormented helpless waiters with requests for fish and chips. As for New China's artists, Spencer had no prescriptions to offer about socialist realism. Instead he informed his audience at the Central Academy of Fine Arts that he was \"possibly the most marvellous visitor to China they had ever had\". He ventured that his visit was \"something on a par with the coming of Buddha\", later explaining that he had felt obliged to emphasise this fact \"because in England if people don't know who I am I am at once called upon to carry heavy suitcases\".Britain's horrified charg\u00e9 d'affaires in Peking, Humphrey Trevelyan, avoided that particular occasion but could not escape the \"fatuous performance\" in which Spencer, Ayer, Warner, Casson and Hawkes, the leader of the cultural delegation, presented their statement of friendship to the minister of culture, Kuo Mo-jo, a man whose purpose was so obviously to \"exploit the word 'peace' for political ends\". Trevelyan was particularly dismayed to hear Spencer \"guilelessly expatiating\" about \"the delights of Formosa\". For Trevelyan, as for Kuo Mo-jo and his colleagues, Formosa was the American-buoyed nationalist island that the communist slogans fiercely insisted was really China's Taiwan. And now here was Spencer blundering on without ever really making it clear that the \"Formosa\" in his mind was actually a little island in the Thames at Cookham, with a creek, a picturesque old house, and a field in which the local Boy Scouts held their musters.Judging from the notes he wrote after returning home, Spencer made very short work of the Great Wall of China too. Indeed, he reduced it to the garden wall along which he had liked to walk as a child in Cookham. He had, as he explained, climbed up by the coal cellar and triumphed over many challenges as he made his way along its length: not the advancing Manchu army, but the leaning lid of the dustbin, the ivy that stretched over some sections, and the protruding branches of cherry, yew and fir that also had to be negotiated over that wall's rather less than 4,000 mile length. Spencer \u2013 who told Zhou that \"I feel at home in China because I feel that Cookham is somewhere near, only just around the corner\" \u2013 was uniquely idiosyncratic, but he was by no means the only delegate who seems to have journeyed to the far side of the world without ever really leaving England behind.As for the future of this attempted rapprochement between Britain and \"New China\", the optimistic \"spirit of Geneva\" evaporated soon enough after the last delegates came home, and the blocs quickly refroze. Yet that moment of hopefulness was not entirely without consequences. Trade between Britain and China was renewed over the years to come, diplomatic relations were established, and cultural exchanges did develop. The Bevanite perspective within the Labour party cannot be said to have thrived, but the insistence on maintaining an independent British stance towards Washington was alive in the 60s, when Harold Wilson refused to commit British forces to America's war in Vietnam. Though insufficient to restrain Tony Blair from joining Bush's invasion of Iraq, it did continue to resound in the heartfelt declamations that the elderly Barbara Castle used to launch against various New Labour policies during her last years in the House of Lords. She informed me in no uncertain terms that the true delinquents of 1954 were those in power who refused to rise to the opportunities of the moment, and certainly not those like herself who went to China with the aim of lifting the bamboo curtain.Of the British artists who went to China in 1954, neither Spencer nor Hogarth would ever return. Mathews, however, would try to maintain the dialogue even as China went through the suppression of the Hundred Flowers campaign, the collectivisation of the briefly \"cooperative\" economy, and the monstrously costly \"Great Leap Forward\". He used his position as secretary of the Contemporary Art Society at the Tate Gallery to promote an exchange of exhibitions. Working directly with Chinese government agencies, he began by organising a survey show of British Graphic Art, which was taken to China by his fellow organiser and artist Richard Carline in 1955. He himself returned in 1960, accompanying an exhibition of recent paintings entitled Sixty Years of British Painting in Oils.He found China to be a very different place. Discussion was discouraged, the circulation of the show was curtailed, and he was prevented from renewing his acquaintance with some of the Chinese artists he had got to know in 1954. Mathews made no progress in his attempt to use the exhibition to create a comparative discussion about aesthetics \u2013 finding himself assailed with dogmatic slogans decreeing that all work produced in China since the liberation of 1949 must be superior to anything produced before, and that no painting of a shrimp, even by the venerated master Qi Baishi, could beat a portrait of Chairman Mao.", "tags": ["History", "Books", "Culture", "Politics", "Society", "China", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China: Behind the bamboo curtain"},{"date": "2010-10-20T09:08:39Z", "country": "china", "content": "China surprised markets on Tuesday with its first interest rate increase since 2007. What prompted the move and what does it mean for the Chinese currency, the yuan?Virtually no one had predicted the rate rise, which took one-year deposit rates to 2.5% and one-year lending rates to 5.56%. As Li Daokui, an academic adviser to the People's Bank of China, explained, the central bank was worried about rising inflation and property prices. Although there is no sign that inflation is getting out of control, consumer prices have been rising faster than Beijing's 3% annual target.The People's Bank of China made clear that it wants savers to lock up more of their cash in banks, rather than invest in stocks or property.Many economists believe this is the start of a cycle of rate increases. But this is likely to be gradual. For example, UBS expects three rate hikes in 2011, Mizuho Securities forecasts two by the middle of next year and Deutsche Bank believes there will be two over the next 12 months.China already began tightening policy late last year. It has kept a lid on credit growth through strict lending quotas, and has also raised reserve requirements three times for all banks to lock up more of their cash, while pushing through a fourth, targeted reserve increase for six major banks last week.Some economists believe that with inflation set to peak soon, Beijing will prefer to rely on lending controls and reserve requirements rather than further interest rate rises.In a fully open economy, higher rates would normally push up the currency. The yuan gained almost 3% against the dollar in the two months before the rate increase, but Beijing sent the yuan's exchange rate sharply lower yesterday. Some traders believe that the government will put the brakes on its appreciation to ward off capital inflows.However, China still faces heavy pressure from the United States, Europe and others to allow the yuan to strengthen.China \u2013 which never fell into recession \u2013 has enjoyed a rapid recovery from the global downturn. Its economy grew at an annual rate of 10.3% in the second quarter, compared with 1.7% in the US, although China's growth is set to have slowed in the third quarter. The figures are due on Thursday.The rapid growth has pushed up wages, food and property prices in the country. Consumer prices rose 3.5% in August, led by a 7.5% rise in food prices.", "tags": ["Currencies", "Business", "Interest rates", "Economics", "Global economy", "China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China rate rise: Q&A"},{"date": "2010-10-12T16:31:01Z", "country": "china", "content": "It may not be easy to reconcile the recent pledges by the Chinese premier that China will carry out political reforms with its official, outraged reaction to the Nobel peace prize awarded to the dissident Liu Xiaobo, a former teacher at Beijing Normal University who joined us student protesters in the Tiananmen uprising. But for China watchers \u2013 and for those of us involved in the rights struggle in China \u2013 the cries of \"a blasphemy\" and threats of diplomatic repercussions for Norway came as no surprise. This is the reaction to be expected from a government that does not tolerate dissent \u2013 and will never carry out reforms without a lot more pressure than it has received in the past two decades.The petulant rhetoric of misunderstood authoritarian regimes can strike an amusing note (when the Dalai Lama won the 1989 prize, Beijing retorted that he was a \"wolf in monk's robes\"). But China is not a \"hermit state\" like North Korea or Myanmar. It is the world's second largest economy and, not so long ago, it was host to the Olympics. And this is the reason that the Norwegian Nobel peace prize committee's decision to turn the screws should not only be applauded, but welcomed. It is hopefully the first of many steps the west will carry out to put pressure on China and ensure that premier Wen Jiabao's calls for political reform are more than just a sop to critics abroad.The time has come for the world to begin to engage China intelligently \u2013 something it has not done in the past 21 years I have been in exile. It is time to abandon the delusional notion that economic prosperity will lead to political reform \u2013 it hasn't and it won't. It is also time to abandon the specious argument that China's \"special conditions\" justify authoritarian one-party rule. Yes, China is a big country but that does not automatically strip its people of rights we hold to be fundamental elsewhere.We don't have to look far to find two examples of authoritarian command economies that once imprisoned dissent and stifled free speech and are now prosperous democracies: South Korea and Taiwan. The west played a role in their transition \u2013 encouraging free trade and applying pressure when it came to human rights. It is time to take the same approach to China.Pressure will not transform China into a thriving democracy any time soon. But it would provide hope to brave Chinese who struggle for voices to be heard and are seeking redress for land grabs, forced relocations and illegal detainment of petitioners among a host of other injustices.In 1989, we exiled student protesters were received well in the west. We faced tanks and machine guns in Beijing, but we had the support of the rest of the world. This made us believe that with the support of the international community we could help pressure China into becoming a freer and more tolerant place. Unfortunately, all too quickly, it was business as normal and Tiananmen became an inconvenience. Before meeting us or giving us a venue to voice our views, people began to consider what kind of message that would send to the Chinese regime.But not meeting us and sweeping our views aside sent another message to the Chinese regime \u2013 that the human rights movement in China was no longer relevant to the outside world, and we had become insignificant. I have been told as much during the course of my long and failed negotiations to either be allowed to return to China or for my parents to be issued passports so they can visit me.Hopefully, the Nobel prize committee's decision to recognize Liu will be a reminder to Beijing that human rights in China have not been forgotten. Hopefully it will be a reminder to others in the west that it is still possible to put principles ahead of business interests.Chinese dissidents like Liu will continue to play the role they have done while the rest of the world mostly looked the other way. This is a common responsibility for all of us at odds with the regime in China \u2013 no matter whether in exile or facing injustice at home. But it is also a global responsibility because it is in global interests. Applying pressure where pressure is due is the only way to make China a more responsible partner on the world stage. And a freer, more transparent and more accountable China is a China that the world can talk to and negotiate with. To fail to engage with China in this way is to passively encourage China to go its own way, to make up its own rules.Engaging with China is not only the right thing to do; it would be wrong not to do so. To not act is a kind of appeasement, and it sends a message to China that it can do what it likes with impunity. If we want to see a China whose astounding economic growth is matched by a political culture that speaks our language, we have to act together to bring that culture into existence.I hope the peace committee's latest decision inspires people worldwide to imagine that the message we send the Chinese regime does not have to be the one it wants to hear. The alternative is to risk another Tiananmen \u2013 or the creation of an intractable world power that tolerates dissenting opinions abroad as little as it does at home.", "tags": ["China", "Liu Xiaobo", "Nobel peace prize", "Protest", "Human rights", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Keeping the pressure on China | Wu'er Kaixi"},{"date": "2010-12-28T19:56:32Z", "country": "china", "content": "China's economic growth is inflicting more than a trillion yuan's worth of damage on its environment each year, according to a government report that increases pressure on planners to slow the breakneck speed of development.In one of the longest-term accountings of ecological degradation, the China academy for environmental planning calculated that the cost of pollution spills, deteriorating soil, vanishing wetlands, and other impacts surged to 1.3tr yuan (\u00a3130bn) in 2008. This was equivalent to 3.9% of the country's GDP. Most of these costs do not appear on corporate balance books or government budgets, but they are accumulating year by year to an environmental deficit that threatens the country's long-term prospects.The central government has increased efforts to clean up the nation's notoriously filthy air and contaminated water, but the report's authors \u2013 who are affiliated to the Ministry of Environmental Protection \u2013 say the cost of pollution spills and other environmental damage rose by more than 74.8% in the five years up to 2008.The true figure could be even higher as the authors acknowledge their data is incomplete. A 2007 study by the environment ministry and the World Bank estimated the annual cost of pollution in China at 780bn yuan. This did not fully take into account other forms of environmental degradation, such as loss of biodiversity, desertification and soil decline through over-intensive farming.In the past week, officials have warned that drought and soil erosion threaten Beijing's water supply and the nation's food security.Zhou Ying, vice-minister of water resources, warned that China's loss of soil and water \"posed severe threats to the ecology, food safety and flood control\". His comments appeared in a China Daily report on plans to tighten penalties on projects that worsen the situation.The capital has had almost no precipitation for the past two months, following an unusually dry rainy season. With reservoirs unable to cope with the demands of a rising and increasingly affluent population, the city has had to rely more on non-replenishable aquifers, to meet its accumulated water deficit of 200bn cubic metres. Reports suggest the city will introduce controls on water use, particularly on heavy users such as factories and ski resorts. Prices for many users are likely to rise.Government advisers warn the nation's small agricultural surplus is at risk, despite an improved harvest this year. \"It's uncertain whether we can keep a sustainable increase in output in the future as the country's grain production capacity is more concentrated in northern areas, where there is a severe water shortage,\" Chen Xiwen, deputy director of the central rural work leading group, told the media. This followed a similar warning by a UN envoy.Expectations are high that the government's next five-year plan will strengthen environmental controls and attempt to slow annual economic growth from 10% to 7.5%.Policy makers believe the country has turned a corner and want to start restoring damaged ecosystems. In the past five years, official statistics suggest two key measurements of pollution \u2014 sulphur dioxide and chemical-oxygen demand \u2014 have fallen, but other problems remain severe.\"China is at a peak. I think from now on we will go down in terms of environmental degradation as the economy continues to grow,\" said Prof Pan Jiahua, executive director of the sustainable development research centre at the Chinese academy of social sciences. \"We will spend money to improve our ecology and to restore mining areas and tackle subsidence.\"Hundreds of people have died in China this year in landslides caused by a combination of floods, deforestation and poor soil management.The costs of restoring land that is threatened by geological and human hazards will be immense.Shaanxi province alone will spend 10bn yuan (\u00a31bn) to relocate 2.4 million people from threatened areas in a 10-year plan unveiled this month.", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Pollution", "Environment", "Water", "Farming", "Asia Pacific", "Soil"], "title": "China counts \u00a3130bn cost of economic growth"},{"date": "2011-02-14T18:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Although anticipated for some time, a symbolically important milestone has now been reached. China has officially overtaken Japan as the world's second-largest economy. Its rise has the potential to boost world growth, but also to increase tensions.China is still poor, so has the potential to grow quickly from a low level. But, as a developing country, it is likely to continue to focus on exports, though its latest economic strategy suggests it could begin to rebalance its economy towards domestic demand.If China is compared with the world's other largest economies, the differences are clear. It may be the second biggest in size, but ranks at 119 in terms of average incomes, according to World Bank data. Although Japan's $5.5tn economy is smaller than China's ($5.9tn), its average income is 10 times greater at $40,000. The US, at $14.9tn, is the largest economy and per capita incomes are similar to Japan's at $47,000, according to IMF data.China still practises export-led growth, a strategy that has served other developing countries well. Exports have accounted for 40-60% of Chinese GDP, while it is about 15% for the US and Japan. This has been a source of conflict, particularly as other developed economies seek to recover through exports.But China plans to rebalance its economy towards domestic demand, that is, shifting away from exports. It is in part a reaction to expected weaker imports from the west as consumers repay debt rather than spend at previous rates. The Chinese government also wants to avoid the protests at factory gates that occurred in 2009 when exports collapsed and workers were laid off en masse. China can make this shift because it has its own emerging middle class, which has achieved a reasonable level of income in the first three decades of the reform period.China has been talking about these reforms for a while, but notably changed its policy last autumn. The 12th Five Year Plan adopted then, which comes into effect next month, will be centred on developing the services sector, increasing urbanisation and improving incomes. Services comprise 40% of Chinese GDP, which is comparatively low. A number of services are non-tradeable, which helps to achieve the rebalancing aims. Also, just over half of the Chinese population is rural. The urbanisation drive will improve the livelihood of migrants by offering better employment opportunities and the chance to settle in cities. That will help to increase incomes and expand the consumer base. And improving incomes of urban workers is a key part of the strategy too. Wages may have been growing rapidly, but the share of income going to workers has declined, which partly explains the decline of consumption to 40% of GDP, which is lower than in other major economies.The overall aim, an ambitious one, is to sustain the next 30 years of growth. China is wary of the so-called \"middle-income country trap\" under which few countries join the ranks of the rich because growth slows in the absence of technological and productivity improvements. This means China will want to continue to integrate with the global economy so its firms can learn while competing on the world stage. But it also means it needs to reform its domestic economy to improve conditions for private firms and remove impediments in the labour market. This is crucial to sustain economic growth and help maintain social stability.These policy shifts suggest China has perhaps begun to realise it can be a major trader even when its economy is largely driven by its own consumers and firms, as is the case in the US and Japan. Rebalancing away from exports could also help to alleviate tensions with its trading partners. But other countries will want to see the 12th Five Year Plan earnestly implemented \u2013 sooner rather than later \u2013 in the world's now number two economy.", "tags": ["China", "Global economy", "World news", "Business", "Economics", "Japan", "US economy", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China looks for inner richness | Linda Yueh"},{"date": "2011-02-14T18:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Although anticipated for some time, a symbolically important milestone has now been reached. China has officially overtaken Japan as the world's second-largest economy. Its rise has the potential to boost world growth, but also to increase tensions.China is still poor, so has the potential to grow quickly from a low level. But, as a developing country, it is likely to continue to focus on exports, though its latest economic strategy suggests it could begin to rebalance its economy towards domestic demand.If China is compared with the world's other largest economies, the differences are clear. It may be the second biggest in size, but ranks at 119 in terms of average incomes, according to World Bank data. Although Japan's $5.5tn economy is smaller than China's ($5.9tn), its average income is 10 times greater at $40,000. The US, at $14.9tn, is the largest economy and per capita incomes are similar to Japan's at $47,000, according to IMF data.China still practises export-led growth, a strategy that has served other developing countries well. Exports have accounted for 40-60% of Chinese GDP, while it is about 15% for the US and Japan. This has been a source of conflict, particularly as other developed economies seek to recover through exports.But China plans to rebalance its economy towards domestic demand, that is, shifting away from exports. It is in part a reaction to expected weaker imports from the west as consumers repay debt rather than spend at previous rates. The Chinese government also wants to avoid the protests at factory gates that occurred in 2009 when exports collapsed and workers were laid off en masse. China can make this shift because it has its own emerging middle class, which has achieved a reasonable level of income in the first three decades of the reform period.China has been talking about these reforms for a while, but notably changed its policy last autumn. The 12th Five Year Plan adopted then, which comes into effect next month, will be centred on developing the services sector, increasing urbanisation and improving incomes. Services comprise 40% of Chinese GDP, which is comparatively low. A number of services are non-tradeable, which helps to achieve the rebalancing aims. Also, just over half of the Chinese population is rural. The urbanisation drive will improve the livelihood of migrants by offering better employment opportunities and the chance to settle in cities. That will help to increase incomes and expand the consumer base. And improving incomes of urban workers is a key part of the strategy too. Wages may have been growing rapidly, but the share of income going to workers has declined, which partly explains the decline of consumption to 40% of GDP, which is lower than in other major economies.The overall aim, an ambitious one, is to sustain the next 30 years of growth. China is wary of the so-called \"middle-income country trap\" under which few countries join the ranks of the rich because growth slows in the absence of technological and productivity improvements. This means China will want to continue to integrate with the global economy so its firms can learn while competing on the world stage. But it also means it needs to reform its domestic economy to improve conditions for private firms and remove impediments in the labour market. This is crucial to sustain economic growth and help maintain social stability.These policy shifts suggest China has perhaps begun to realise it can be a major trader even when its economy is largely driven by its own consumers and firms, as is the case in the US and Japan. Rebalancing away from exports could also help to alleviate tensions with its trading partners. But other countries will want to see the 12th Five Year Plan earnestly implemented \u2013 sooner rather than later \u2013 in the world's now number two economy.", "tags": ["China", "Global economy", "World news", "Business", "Economics", "Japan", "US economy", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China looks for inner richness | Linda Yueh"},{"date": "2011-02-08T15:51:09Z", "country": "china", "content": "Here comes the bride, all dressed in ... plastic. At least she might be if you purchase one of the increasing number of commemorative toys being produced to cash in on the marriage of Prince William and Kate Middleton in April 2011.Never usually ones to miss out on a money-making opportunity, toy manufacturers are launching royal wedding-themed playthings aimed at children (who probably have no idea who Willliam and Kate are) and their parents in the hope that Wills and Kate fever will add to a toy market worth around \u00a32.7bn a year in the UK alone.The most talked about toy is the \u00a315 Happyland Royal Wedding Set, available to pre-order from the Early Learning Centre for delivery in March, though online customers have already begun receiving their sets. \"Prince William and Kate sit in a gold trimmed horse-drawn carriage while The Queen, Prince Phillip and their favourite corgi are protected by a Royal Cavalry soldier in full uniform and a foot soldier wearing a smart red jacket and bearskin helmet,\" the marketing blurb informs us.This is, admittedly, a cute set of figurines \u2013 albeit one featuring some interesting design choices. Prince Phillip seems to be sporting a reasonably thick head of hair, while William's equally follicly-challenged bonce is tastefully covered by a military cap. The happy couple have a permanently fixed wave, while the horses appear to be the same size as the 3\" human characters and the corgi more closely resembles a collie dog. But all of them have an unsettling blank stare, as though the happy royals have accidentally been crossed with a Stepford Wives toy range.Another cracker is the forthcoming Celebration Wedding Set from Sylvanian Families, a bizzare mixture of the real world and the fantasy realm of Sylvania \u2013 heavily populated by rabbits and other cute animals. William & Catherine Balmoral are both bunnies, while Louise and Amelia Periwinkle are rabbit bridesmaids and James Periwinkle a perky-looking rabbit page boy. Standing out starkly from the bucks and does is Reverend Kelvin Waters, who is possibly a beaver. Hours of endless fun for \u00a324.99.Corgi cars has also got in on the act, producing a \u00a39.99 1:36 scale navy blue Austin Mini \u2013 a limited edition celebration of \"all things British\", sporting an SW1 William & Kate London road sign on the side and a Union Jack roof. The toy car manufacturer has also produced a three-piece commemorative die cast set (featuring a Mini, London bus and a van) for \u00a324.99 and a 24 carat gold-plated commemorative die cast Model T Ford van (\u00a329.99). The vans sport a fetching portrait of Wills and Kate on the side, lest you forget who they are while your children are ramming them into your floorboards.Many readers will find the toys expensive, with prices not too dissimilar to items in the official range of china (which includes handmade cups for \u00a335 a pop and pill boxes at \u00a325), and Aynsley's royal wedding collection (coasters at \u00a39.95, Crown bells at \u00a319.95). But, of course, you cannot put a price on taste.Other items available across the web include commemorative jigsaws and teddy bears. But what I'd really like to see is a Star Wars-themed wedding set, with Prince Phillip as Darth Vader and The Queen as Yoda, Fergie as Mon Mothma and princesses Eugenie and Beatrice as Ewoks. Prince Edward and the Countess of Wessex could be C3PO and R2-D2 respectively, while at a push Prince Charles and Camilla could be Luke Skywalker's guardians Owen and Beru Lars. William and Kate would, of course, be Han Solo and Princess Leia, while Prince Harry would make a fine Jar Jar Binks.Or a Lord of the Rings wedding figurine set, featuring Prince William as Aragorn and Kate as Arwen and ... you get the idea. How else could toy manufacturers cash-in on the forthcoming nuptials? What other mergers of the film world and the royal family would you like to see immortalised in plastic? Do the toys offer genuine opportunities for fun and games, or are they simply soulless cash-ins designed to part parents from their cash?", "tags": ["Royal wedding", "Prince William", "Monarchy", "UK news", "The Duchess of Cambridge", "Toys", "Money", "Consumer affairs"], "title": "William & Kate - made in China"},{"date": "2011-02-14T18:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Although anticipated for some time, a symbolically important milestone has now been reached. China has officially overtaken Japan as the world's second-largest economy. Its rise has the potential to boost world growth, but also to increase tensions.China is still poor, so has the potential to grow quickly from a low level. But, as a developing country, it is likely to continue to focus on exports, though its latest economic strategy suggests it could begin to rebalance its economy towards domestic demand.If China is compared with the world's other largest economies, the differences are clear. It may be the second biggest in size, but ranks at 119 in terms of average incomes, according to World Bank data. Although Japan's $5.5tn economy is smaller than China's ($5.9tn), its average income is 10 times greater at $40,000. The US, at $14.9tn, is the largest economy and per capita incomes are similar to Japan's at $47,000, according to IMF data.China still practises export-led growth, a strategy that has served other developing countries well. Exports have accounted for 40-60% of Chinese GDP, while it is about 15% for the US and Japan. This has been a source of conflict, particularly as other developed economies seek to recover through exports.But China plans to rebalance its economy towards domestic demand, that is, shifting away from exports. It is in part a reaction to expected weaker imports from the west as consumers repay debt rather than spend at previous rates. The Chinese government also wants to avoid the protests at factory gates that occurred in 2009 when exports collapsed and workers were laid off en masse. China can make this shift because it has its own emerging middle class, which has achieved a reasonable level of income in the first three decades of the reform period.China has been talking about these reforms for a while, but notably changed its policy last autumn. The 12th Five Year Plan adopted then, which comes into effect next month, will be centred on developing the services sector, increasing urbanisation and improving incomes. Services comprise 40% of Chinese GDP, which is comparatively low. A number of services are non-tradeable, which helps to achieve the rebalancing aims. Also, just over half of the Chinese population is rural. The urbanisation drive will improve the livelihood of migrants by offering better employment opportunities and the chance to settle in cities. That will help to increase incomes and expand the consumer base. And improving incomes of urban workers is a key part of the strategy too. Wages may have been growing rapidly, but the share of income going to workers has declined, which partly explains the decline of consumption to 40% of GDP, which is lower than in other major economies.The overall aim, an ambitious one, is to sustain the next 30 years of growth. China is wary of the so-called \"middle-income country trap\" under which few countries join the ranks of the rich because growth slows in the absence of technological and productivity improvements. This means China will want to continue to integrate with the global economy so its firms can learn while competing on the world stage. But it also means it needs to reform its domestic economy to improve conditions for private firms and remove impediments in the labour market. This is crucial to sustain economic growth and help maintain social stability.These policy shifts suggest China has perhaps begun to realise it can be a major trader even when its economy is largely driven by its own consumers and firms, as is the case in the US and Japan. Rebalancing away from exports could also help to alleviate tensions with its trading partners. But other countries will want to see the 12th Five Year Plan earnestly implemented \u2013 sooner rather than later \u2013 in the world's now number two economy.", "tags": ["China", "Global economy", "World news", "Business", "Economics", "Japan", "US economy", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China looks for inner richness | Linda Yueh"},{"date": "2011-02-08T15:51:09Z", "country": "china", "content": "Here comes the bride, all dressed in ... plastic. At least she might be if you purchase one of the increasing number of commemorative toys being produced to cash in on the marriage of Prince William and Kate Middleton in April 2011.Never usually ones to miss out on a money-making opportunity, toy manufacturers are launching royal wedding-themed playthings aimed at children (who probably have no idea who Willliam and Kate are) and their parents in the hope that Wills and Kate fever will add to a toy market worth around \u00a32.7bn a year in the UK alone.The most talked about toy is the \u00a315 Happyland Royal Wedding Set, available to pre-order from the Early Learning Centre for delivery in March, though online customers have already begun receiving their sets. \"Prince William and Kate sit in a gold trimmed horse-drawn carriage while The Queen, Prince Phillip and their favourite corgi are protected by a Royal Cavalry soldier in full uniform and a foot soldier wearing a smart red jacket and bearskin helmet,\" the marketing blurb informs us.This is, admittedly, a cute set of figurines \u2013 albeit one featuring some interesting design choices. Prince Phillip seems to be sporting a reasonably thick head of hair, while William's equally follicly-challenged bonce is tastefully covered by a military cap. The happy couple have a permanently fixed wave, while the horses appear to be the same size as the 3\" human characters and the corgi more closely resembles a collie dog. But all of them have an unsettling blank stare, as though the happy royals have accidentally been crossed with a Stepford Wives toy range.Another cracker is the forthcoming Celebration Wedding Set from Sylvanian Families, a bizzare mixture of the real world and the fantasy realm of Sylvania \u2013 heavily populated by rabbits and other cute animals. William & Catherine Balmoral are both bunnies, while Louise and Amelia Periwinkle are rabbit bridesmaids and James Periwinkle a perky-looking rabbit page boy. Standing out starkly from the bucks and does is Reverend Kelvin Waters, who is possibly a beaver. Hours of endless fun for \u00a324.99.Corgi cars has also got in on the act, producing a \u00a39.99 1:36 scale navy blue Austin Mini \u2013 a limited edition celebration of \"all things British\", sporting an SW1 William & Kate London road sign on the side and a Union Jack roof. The toy car manufacturer has also produced a three-piece commemorative die cast set (featuring a Mini, London bus and a van) for \u00a324.99 and a 24 carat gold-plated commemorative die cast Model T Ford van (\u00a329.99). The vans sport a fetching portrait of Wills and Kate on the side, lest you forget who they are while your children are ramming them into your floorboards.Many readers will find the toys expensive, with prices not too dissimilar to items in the official range of china (which includes handmade cups for \u00a335 a pop and pill boxes at \u00a325), and Aynsley's royal wedding collection (coasters at \u00a39.95, Crown bells at \u00a319.95). But, of course, you cannot put a price on taste.Other items available across the web include commemorative jigsaws and teddy bears. But what I'd really like to see is a Star Wars-themed wedding set, with Prince Phillip as Darth Vader and The Queen as Yoda, Fergie as Mon Mothma and princesses Eugenie and Beatrice as Ewoks. Prince Edward and the Countess of Wessex could be C3PO and R2-D2 respectively, while at a push Prince Charles and Camilla could be Luke Skywalker's guardians Owen and Beru Lars. William and Kate would, of course, be Han Solo and Princess Leia, while Prince Harry would make a fine Jar Jar Binks.Or a Lord of the Rings wedding figurine set, featuring Prince William as Aragorn and Kate as Arwen and ... you get the idea. How else could toy manufacturers cash-in on the forthcoming nuptials? What other mergers of the film world and the royal family would you like to see immortalised in plastic? Do the toys offer genuine opportunities for fun and games, or are they simply soulless cash-ins designed to part parents from their cash?", "tags": ["Royal wedding", "Prince William", "Monarchy", "UK news", "The Duchess of Cambridge", "Toys", "Money", "Consumer affairs"], "title": "William & Kate - made in China"},{"date": "2011-01-14T11:42:31Z", "country": "china", "content": "China took a step towards a smog-free future today with the announcement of a wide new set of pollution controls.For the first time, the Ministry of Environmental Protection added ammonia nitrogen and nitrogen oxide to its list of reduction targets.As part of efforts to cut these emissions by 1.5% this year, the ministry said greater efforts will be made to cut vehicles' exhausts and to tackle the worst polluting industries, such as paper-making, textiles and chemical plants.In a website report, environmental minister Zhou Shengxian said the government will increase investment in waste-treatment plants and tighten standards for approval of construction projects.Few details were provided, but the announcement comes ahead of China's new five-year economic plan, which is expected to ramp up environmental protection.In the past two weeks, the government has also unveiled new measures to improve environmental monitoring and make the information quickly and widely available.The nitrogen compounds - along with new chemical goals - will be added to existing goals aimed to lower sulphur dioxide (which causes acid rain) and chemical oxygen demand (a measure of water contamination).It was only as recently as 2005 that bureaucrats first introduced numerical environmental targets in the state plan. Relatively modest goals were set to reduce sulphur dioxide and chemical oxygen demand.Even though these were achieved ahead of time, the gains were apparent in the statistics rather than the sky. Beijing and other cities remain shrouded in smog for much of the year.Having proved that success is possible, analysts believe bureaucrats now have the confidence to add other tougher targets that will make an evident impact.\"What they are trying to do this time is really push the ball forward to do enough to actually make a visible difference,\" said Deborah Seligsohn of the World Resources Institute. \"You are seeing a transition from showing effect to showing results.\"However critics say that if China wants to completely eradicate smog, it should also set reduction targets for persistent organic compounds, ozone and particulate matter.", "tags": ["Pollution", "Water", "Environment", "China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China sets new pollution controls"},{"date": "2011-02-14T18:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Although anticipated for some time, a symbolically important milestone has now been reached. China has officially overtaken Japan as the world's second-largest economy. Its rise has the potential to boost world growth, but also to increase tensions.China is still poor, so has the potential to grow quickly from a low level. But, as a developing country, it is likely to continue to focus on exports, though its latest economic strategy suggests it could begin to rebalance its economy towards domestic demand.If China is compared with the world's other largest economies, the differences are clear. It may be the second biggest in size, but ranks at 119 in terms of average incomes, according to World Bank data. Although Japan's $5.5tn economy is smaller than China's ($5.9tn), its average income is 10 times greater at $40,000. The US, at $14.9tn, is the largest economy and per capita incomes are similar to Japan's at $47,000, according to IMF data.China still practises export-led growth, a strategy that has served other developing countries well. Exports have accounted for 40-60% of Chinese GDP, while it is about 15% for the US and Japan. This has been a source of conflict, particularly as other developed economies seek to recover through exports.But China plans to rebalance its economy towards domestic demand, that is, shifting away from exports. It is in part a reaction to expected weaker imports from the west as consumers repay debt rather than spend at previous rates. The Chinese government also wants to avoid the protests at factory gates that occurred in 2009 when exports collapsed and workers were laid off en masse. China can make this shift because it has its own emerging middle class, which has achieved a reasonable level of income in the first three decades of the reform period.China has been talking about these reforms for a while, but notably changed its policy last autumn. The 12th Five Year Plan adopted then, which comes into effect next month, will be centred on developing the services sector, increasing urbanisation and improving incomes. Services comprise 40% of Chinese GDP, which is comparatively low. A number of services are non-tradeable, which helps to achieve the rebalancing aims. Also, just over half of the Chinese population is rural. The urbanisation drive will improve the livelihood of migrants by offering better employment opportunities and the chance to settle in cities. That will help to increase incomes and expand the consumer base. And improving incomes of urban workers is a key part of the strategy too. Wages may have been growing rapidly, but the share of income going to workers has declined, which partly explains the decline of consumption to 40% of GDP, which is lower than in other major economies.The overall aim, an ambitious one, is to sustain the next 30 years of growth. China is wary of the so-called \"middle-income country trap\" under which few countries join the ranks of the rich because growth slows in the absence of technological and productivity improvements. This means China will want to continue to integrate with the global economy so its firms can learn while competing on the world stage. But it also means it needs to reform its domestic economy to improve conditions for private firms and remove impediments in the labour market. This is crucial to sustain economic growth and help maintain social stability.These policy shifts suggest China has perhaps begun to realise it can be a major trader even when its economy is largely driven by its own consumers and firms, as is the case in the US and Japan. Rebalancing away from exports could also help to alleviate tensions with its trading partners. But other countries will want to see the 12th Five Year Plan earnestly implemented \u2013 sooner rather than later \u2013 in the world's now number two economy.", "tags": ["China", "Global economy", "World news", "Business", "Economics", "Japan", "US economy", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China looks for inner richness | Linda Yueh"},{"date": "2011-02-08T15:51:09Z", "country": "china", "content": "Here comes the bride, all dressed in ... plastic. At least she might be if you purchase one of the increasing number of commemorative toys being produced to cash in on the marriage of Prince William and Kate Middleton in April 2011.Never usually ones to miss out on a money-making opportunity, toy manufacturers are launching royal wedding-themed playthings aimed at children (who probably have no idea who Willliam and Kate are) and their parents in the hope that Wills and Kate fever will add to a toy market worth around \u00a32.7bn a year in the UK alone.The most talked about toy is the \u00a315 Happyland Royal Wedding Set, available to pre-order from the Early Learning Centre for delivery in March, though online customers have already begun receiving their sets. \"Prince William and Kate sit in a gold trimmed horse-drawn carriage while The Queen, Prince Phillip and their favourite corgi are protected by a Royal Cavalry soldier in full uniform and a foot soldier wearing a smart red jacket and bearskin helmet,\" the marketing blurb informs us.This is, admittedly, a cute set of figurines \u2013 albeit one featuring some interesting design choices. Prince Phillip seems to be sporting a reasonably thick head of hair, while William's equally follicly-challenged bonce is tastefully covered by a military cap. The happy couple have a permanently fixed wave, while the horses appear to be the same size as the 3\" human characters and the corgi more closely resembles a collie dog. But all of them have an unsettling blank stare, as though the happy royals have accidentally been crossed with a Stepford Wives toy range.Another cracker is the forthcoming Celebration Wedding Set from Sylvanian Families, a bizzare mixture of the real world and the fantasy realm of Sylvania \u2013 heavily populated by rabbits and other cute animals. William & Catherine Balmoral are both bunnies, while Louise and Amelia Periwinkle are rabbit bridesmaids and James Periwinkle a perky-looking rabbit page boy. Standing out starkly from the bucks and does is Reverend Kelvin Waters, who is possibly a beaver. Hours of endless fun for \u00a324.99.Corgi cars has also got in on the act, producing a \u00a39.99 1:36 scale navy blue Austin Mini \u2013 a limited edition celebration of \"all things British\", sporting an SW1 William & Kate London road sign on the side and a Union Jack roof. The toy car manufacturer has also produced a three-piece commemorative die cast set (featuring a Mini, London bus and a van) for \u00a324.99 and a 24 carat gold-plated commemorative die cast Model T Ford van (\u00a329.99). The vans sport a fetching portrait of Wills and Kate on the side, lest you forget who they are while your children are ramming them into your floorboards.Many readers will find the toys expensive, with prices not too dissimilar to items in the official range of china (which includes handmade cups for \u00a335 a pop and pill boxes at \u00a325), and Aynsley's royal wedding collection (coasters at \u00a39.95, Crown bells at \u00a319.95). But, of course, you cannot put a price on taste.Other items available across the web include commemorative jigsaws and teddy bears. But what I'd really like to see is a Star Wars-themed wedding set, with Prince Phillip as Darth Vader and The Queen as Yoda, Fergie as Mon Mothma and princesses Eugenie and Beatrice as Ewoks. Prince Edward and the Countess of Wessex could be C3PO and R2-D2 respectively, while at a push Prince Charles and Camilla could be Luke Skywalker's guardians Owen and Beru Lars. William and Kate would, of course, be Han Solo and Princess Leia, while Prince Harry would make a fine Jar Jar Binks.Or a Lord of the Rings wedding figurine set, featuring Prince William as Aragorn and Kate as Arwen and ... you get the idea. How else could toy manufacturers cash-in on the forthcoming nuptials? What other mergers of the film world and the royal family would you like to see immortalised in plastic? Do the toys offer genuine opportunities for fun and games, or are they simply soulless cash-ins designed to part parents from their cash?", "tags": ["Royal wedding", "Prince William", "Monarchy", "UK news", "The Duchess of Cambridge", "Toys", "Money", "Consumer affairs"], "title": "William & Kate - made in China"},{"date": "2011-01-14T11:42:31Z", "country": "china", "content": "China took a step towards a smog-free future today with the announcement of a wide new set of pollution controls.For the first time, the Ministry of Environmental Protection added ammonia nitrogen and nitrogen oxide to its list of reduction targets.As part of efforts to cut these emissions by 1.5% this year, the ministry said greater efforts will be made to cut vehicles' exhausts and to tackle the worst polluting industries, such as paper-making, textiles and chemical plants.In a website report, environmental minister Zhou Shengxian said the government will increase investment in waste-treatment plants and tighten standards for approval of construction projects.Few details were provided, but the announcement comes ahead of China's new five-year economic plan, which is expected to ramp up environmental protection.In the past two weeks, the government has also unveiled new measures to improve environmental monitoring and make the information quickly and widely available.The nitrogen compounds - along with new chemical goals - will be added to existing goals aimed to lower sulphur dioxide (which causes acid rain) and chemical oxygen demand (a measure of water contamination).It was only as recently as 2005 that bureaucrats first introduced numerical environmental targets in the state plan. Relatively modest goals were set to reduce sulphur dioxide and chemical oxygen demand.Even though these were achieved ahead of time, the gains were apparent in the statistics rather than the sky. Beijing and other cities remain shrouded in smog for much of the year.Having proved that success is possible, analysts believe bureaucrats now have the confidence to add other tougher targets that will make an evident impact.\"What they are trying to do this time is really push the ball forward to do enough to actually make a visible difference,\" said Deborah Seligsohn of the World Resources Institute. \"You are seeing a transition from showing effect to showing results.\"However critics say that if China wants to completely eradicate smog, it should also set reduction targets for persistent organic compounds, ozone and particulate matter.", "tags": ["Pollution", "Water", "Environment", "China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China sets new pollution controls"},{"date": "2011-01-12T18:06:09Z", "country": "china", "content": "China indicated that it planned to buy Spanish bonds at a crucial auction tomorrow, after purchasing Portuguese debt today, bringing much-needed investors' confidence to the two troubled countries.\"These are delicate times and we take a positive role,\" Yi Gang, deputy governor of the People's Bank of China, told the Guardian today. \"We have been and are a consistent buyer and we have a long-term view of our investments in Europe.\"In a closely watched sale of \u20ac599m (\u00a3497m) of sovereign bonds, Portugal's 10-year borrowing costs dipped to 6.7%, down from 6.8% at a previous auction \u2013 an about-turn on recent increases in debt-funding costs.Spain is planning to raise funds tomorrow, hoping to cut its practically unsustainable borrowing costs as well. The two Iberian countries are battling investors, who are betting they will follow Greece and Ireland into being bailed out by the European Union and the International Monetary Fund \u2013 and giving up a measure of fiscal independence.China, which already controls 13% of Spanish sovereign debt, said it was in its own interests to support the EU in times of trouble as the economic bloc is China's top trading partner. \"We will do our best to be a stabiliser in this process and support further integration of the EU,\" Yi said at a press conference in London, where a Chinese delegation has ended a European tour, following visits to Spain and Germany.The Chinese support, together with stronger defence of the euro from Brussels, sent stock markets rallying across Europe. It also lowered the cost of protecting \u20ac10m of Portuguese debt against default to \u20ac513,000, from \u20ac540,000 today, according to data from Markit. Spain's debt insurance costs also fell to \u20ac336,000, from \u20ac349,000.Some investors remained sceptical about prospects for economic growth in ailing southern Europe. Andr\u00e9 de Klerk, head of risk management at Moneycorp, said: \"The euro still remains weak against sterling and, with Germany quick to remind the EU of the ongoing nature of the European debt crisis, investors will remain nervous about the situation in Portugal over the coming months.\"", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Business", "European monetary union", "China", "World news", "Economics", "Global economy", "Financial sector", "Financial crisis", "Global recession", "Bonds", "Asia Pacific", "Europe"], "title": "'Positive' China buys Spanish bonds"},{"date": "2011-02-14T18:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Although anticipated for some time, a symbolically important milestone has now been reached. China has officially overtaken Japan as the world's second-largest economy. Its rise has the potential to boost world growth, but also to increase tensions.China is still poor, so has the potential to grow quickly from a low level. But, as a developing country, it is likely to continue to focus on exports, though its latest economic strategy suggests it could begin to rebalance its economy towards domestic demand.If China is compared with the world's other largest economies, the differences are clear. It may be the second biggest in size, but ranks at 119 in terms of average incomes, according to World Bank data. Although Japan's $5.5tn economy is smaller than China's ($5.9tn), its average income is 10 times greater at $40,000. The US, at $14.9tn, is the largest economy and per capita incomes are similar to Japan's at $47,000, according to IMF data.China still practises export-led growth, a strategy that has served other developing countries well. Exports have accounted for 40-60% of Chinese GDP, while it is about 15% for the US and Japan. This has been a source of conflict, particularly as other developed economies seek to recover through exports.But China plans to rebalance its economy towards domestic demand, that is, shifting away from exports. It is in part a reaction to expected weaker imports from the west as consumers repay debt rather than spend at previous rates. The Chinese government also wants to avoid the protests at factory gates that occurred in 2009 when exports collapsed and workers were laid off en masse. China can make this shift because it has its own emerging middle class, which has achieved a reasonable level of income in the first three decades of the reform period.China has been talking about these reforms for a while, but notably changed its policy last autumn. The 12th Five Year Plan adopted then, which comes into effect next month, will be centred on developing the services sector, increasing urbanisation and improving incomes. Services comprise 40% of Chinese GDP, which is comparatively low. A number of services are non-tradeable, which helps to achieve the rebalancing aims. Also, just over half of the Chinese population is rural. The urbanisation drive will improve the livelihood of migrants by offering better employment opportunities and the chance to settle in cities. That will help to increase incomes and expand the consumer base. And improving incomes of urban workers is a key part of the strategy too. Wages may have been growing rapidly, but the share of income going to workers has declined, which partly explains the decline of consumption to 40% of GDP, which is lower than in other major economies.The overall aim, an ambitious one, is to sustain the next 30 years of growth. China is wary of the so-called \"middle-income country trap\" under which few countries join the ranks of the rich because growth slows in the absence of technological and productivity improvements. This means China will want to continue to integrate with the global economy so its firms can learn while competing on the world stage. But it also means it needs to reform its domestic economy to improve conditions for private firms and remove impediments in the labour market. This is crucial to sustain economic growth and help maintain social stability.These policy shifts suggest China has perhaps begun to realise it can be a major trader even when its economy is largely driven by its own consumers and firms, as is the case in the US and Japan. Rebalancing away from exports could also help to alleviate tensions with its trading partners. But other countries will want to see the 12th Five Year Plan earnestly implemented \u2013 sooner rather than later \u2013 in the world's now number two economy.", "tags": ["China", "Global economy", "World news", "Business", "Economics", "Japan", "US economy", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China looks for inner richness | Linda Yueh"},{"date": "2011-02-08T15:51:09Z", "country": "china", "content": "Here comes the bride, all dressed in ... plastic. At least she might be if you purchase one of the increasing number of commemorative toys being produced to cash in on the marriage of Prince William and Kate Middleton in April 2011.Never usually ones to miss out on a money-making opportunity, toy manufacturers are launching royal wedding-themed playthings aimed at children (who probably have no idea who Willliam and Kate are) and their parents in the hope that Wills and Kate fever will add to a toy market worth around \u00a32.7bn a year in the UK alone.The most talked about toy is the \u00a315 Happyland Royal Wedding Set, available to pre-order from the Early Learning Centre for delivery in March, though online customers have already begun receiving their sets. \"Prince William and Kate sit in a gold trimmed horse-drawn carriage while The Queen, Prince Phillip and their favourite corgi are protected by a Royal Cavalry soldier in full uniform and a foot soldier wearing a smart red jacket and bearskin helmet,\" the marketing blurb informs us.This is, admittedly, a cute set of figurines \u2013 albeit one featuring some interesting design choices. Prince Phillip seems to be sporting a reasonably thick head of hair, while William's equally follicly-challenged bonce is tastefully covered by a military cap. The happy couple have a permanently fixed wave, while the horses appear to be the same size as the 3\" human characters and the corgi more closely resembles a collie dog. But all of them have an unsettling blank stare, as though the happy royals have accidentally been crossed with a Stepford Wives toy range.Another cracker is the forthcoming Celebration Wedding Set from Sylvanian Families, a bizzare mixture of the real world and the fantasy realm of Sylvania \u2013 heavily populated by rabbits and other cute animals. William & Catherine Balmoral are both bunnies, while Louise and Amelia Periwinkle are rabbit bridesmaids and James Periwinkle a perky-looking rabbit page boy. Standing out starkly from the bucks and does is Reverend Kelvin Waters, who is possibly a beaver. Hours of endless fun for \u00a324.99.Corgi cars has also got in on the act, producing a \u00a39.99 1:36 scale navy blue Austin Mini \u2013 a limited edition celebration of \"all things British\", sporting an SW1 William & Kate London road sign on the side and a Union Jack roof. The toy car manufacturer has also produced a three-piece commemorative die cast set (featuring a Mini, London bus and a van) for \u00a324.99 and a 24 carat gold-plated commemorative die cast Model T Ford van (\u00a329.99). The vans sport a fetching portrait of Wills and Kate on the side, lest you forget who they are while your children are ramming them into your floorboards.Many readers will find the toys expensive, with prices not too dissimilar to items in the official range of china (which includes handmade cups for \u00a335 a pop and pill boxes at \u00a325), and Aynsley's royal wedding collection (coasters at \u00a39.95, Crown bells at \u00a319.95). But, of course, you cannot put a price on taste.Other items available across the web include commemorative jigsaws and teddy bears. But what I'd really like to see is a Star Wars-themed wedding set, with Prince Phillip as Darth Vader and The Queen as Yoda, Fergie as Mon Mothma and princesses Eugenie and Beatrice as Ewoks. Prince Edward and the Countess of Wessex could be C3PO and R2-D2 respectively, while at a push Prince Charles and Camilla could be Luke Skywalker's guardians Owen and Beru Lars. William and Kate would, of course, be Han Solo and Princess Leia, while Prince Harry would make a fine Jar Jar Binks.Or a Lord of the Rings wedding figurine set, featuring Prince William as Aragorn and Kate as Arwen and ... you get the idea. How else could toy manufacturers cash-in on the forthcoming nuptials? What other mergers of the film world and the royal family would you like to see immortalised in plastic? Do the toys offer genuine opportunities for fun and games, or are they simply soulless cash-ins designed to part parents from their cash?", "tags": ["Royal wedding", "Prince William", "Monarchy", "UK news", "The Duchess of Cambridge", "Toys", "Money", "Consumer affairs"], "title": "William & Kate - made in China"},{"date": "2011-01-14T11:42:31Z", "country": "china", "content": "China took a step towards a smog-free future today with the announcement of a wide new set of pollution controls.For the first time, the Ministry of Environmental Protection added ammonia nitrogen and nitrogen oxide to its list of reduction targets.As part of efforts to cut these emissions by 1.5% this year, the ministry said greater efforts will be made to cut vehicles' exhausts and to tackle the worst polluting industries, such as paper-making, textiles and chemical plants.In a website report, environmental minister Zhou Shengxian said the government will increase investment in waste-treatment plants and tighten standards for approval of construction projects.Few details were provided, but the announcement comes ahead of China's new five-year economic plan, which is expected to ramp up environmental protection.In the past two weeks, the government has also unveiled new measures to improve environmental monitoring and make the information quickly and widely available.The nitrogen compounds - along with new chemical goals - will be added to existing goals aimed to lower sulphur dioxide (which causes acid rain) and chemical oxygen demand (a measure of water contamination).It was only as recently as 2005 that bureaucrats first introduced numerical environmental targets in the state plan. Relatively modest goals were set to reduce sulphur dioxide and chemical oxygen demand.Even though these were achieved ahead of time, the gains were apparent in the statistics rather than the sky. Beijing and other cities remain shrouded in smog for much of the year.Having proved that success is possible, analysts believe bureaucrats now have the confidence to add other tougher targets that will make an evident impact.\"What they are trying to do this time is really push the ball forward to do enough to actually make a visible difference,\" said Deborah Seligsohn of the World Resources Institute. \"You are seeing a transition from showing effect to showing results.\"However critics say that if China wants to completely eradicate smog, it should also set reduction targets for persistent organic compounds, ozone and particulate matter.", "tags": ["Pollution", "Water", "Environment", "China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China sets new pollution controls"},{"date": "2011-01-12T18:06:09Z", "country": "china", "content": "China indicated that it planned to buy Spanish bonds at a crucial auction tomorrow, after purchasing Portuguese debt today, bringing much-needed investors' confidence to the two troubled countries.\"These are delicate times and we take a positive role,\" Yi Gang, deputy governor of the People's Bank of China, told the Guardian today. \"We have been and are a consistent buyer and we have a long-term view of our investments in Europe.\"In a closely watched sale of \u20ac599m (\u00a3497m) of sovereign bonds, Portugal's 10-year borrowing costs dipped to 6.7%, down from 6.8% at a previous auction \u2013 an about-turn on recent increases in debt-funding costs.Spain is planning to raise funds tomorrow, hoping to cut its practically unsustainable borrowing costs as well. The two Iberian countries are battling investors, who are betting they will follow Greece and Ireland into being bailed out by the European Union and the International Monetary Fund \u2013 and giving up a measure of fiscal independence.China, which already controls 13% of Spanish sovereign debt, said it was in its own interests to support the EU in times of trouble as the economic bloc is China's top trading partner. \"We will do our best to be a stabiliser in this process and support further integration of the EU,\" Yi said at a press conference in London, where a Chinese delegation has ended a European tour, following visits to Spain and Germany.The Chinese support, together with stronger defence of the euro from Brussels, sent stock markets rallying across Europe. It also lowered the cost of protecting \u20ac10m of Portuguese debt against default to \u20ac513,000, from \u20ac540,000 today, according to data from Markit. Spain's debt insurance costs also fell to \u20ac336,000, from \u20ac349,000.Some investors remained sceptical about prospects for economic growth in ailing southern Europe. Andr\u00e9 de Klerk, head of risk management at Moneycorp, said: \"The euro still remains weak against sterling and, with Germany quick to remind the EU of the ongoing nature of the European debt crisis, investors will remain nervous about the situation in Portugal over the coming months.\"", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Business", "European monetary union", "China", "World news", "Economics", "Global economy", "Financial sector", "Financial crisis", "Global recession", "Bonds", "Asia Pacific", "Europe"], "title": "'Positive' China buys Spanish bonds"},{"date": "2011-01-03T18:31:46Z", "country": "china", "content": "China's ambitions to lead the world in nuclear power were boosted today by reports that its scientists had mastered a key technique in the reprocessing of spent uranium.State media claimed the technology overcame a supply bottleneck and ensured China would have sufficient nuclear fuel for at least 3,000 years.The breakthrough would be a boon to the domestic industry, which is in the early stages of what looks likely to be the most spectacular burst of reactor-building in world history.Due to surging demand for energy and growing concerns about pollution, China's nuclear-power generating capacity is projected to increase up to tenfold in the next 10 years. By 2030 China could be on course to overtake the US as the world's leading atomic energy producer.The technology, developed and tested at the number 404 factory of the China National Nuclear Corporation, situated in the Gobi desert, enables recycling of irradiated fuel, according to China Central Television. How this differs from existing reprocessing methods in other countries is unclear, but the state broadcaster said that with this technique a kilo of uranium could produce close to 60 times more power than was now possible in China.If proven this method would extend the \"usage life\" of the 171,400 tonnes of the country's known uranium deposits, which previously were forecast to last less than 70 years.Reprocessing can also provide fissile material for weapons, though details have not yet been disclosed about the potential impact on China's nuclear arsenal.China first tested an atomic bomb in 1964, but it was slow to adopt nuclear power because of the cheapness and abundance of domestic coal, and the government was reluctant to depend on expensive foreign technology and uranium imports. But in recent years growing wealth and shifting environmental priorities have prompted a change.According to the International Atomic Energy Agency, China now has 13 operating reactors and 26 more facilities under construction.China National Nuclear Corporation said last year it planned to invest 800bn yuan (\u00a378bn) in the industry by 2020. China has already been replicating the technology of its foreign suppliers and is moving to design its own reactors and reprocessing plants. The next step is construction and overseas sales.", "tags": ["China", "Nuclear power", "Energy", "Environment", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China claims new nuclear technology"},{"date": "2011-02-14T18:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Although anticipated for some time, a symbolically important milestone has now been reached. China has officially overtaken Japan as the world's second-largest economy. Its rise has the potential to boost world growth, but also to increase tensions.China is still poor, so has the potential to grow quickly from a low level. But, as a developing country, it is likely to continue to focus on exports, though its latest economic strategy suggests it could begin to rebalance its economy towards domestic demand.If China is compared with the world's other largest economies, the differences are clear. It may be the second biggest in size, but ranks at 119 in terms of average incomes, according to World Bank data. Although Japan's $5.5tn economy is smaller than China's ($5.9tn), its average income is 10 times greater at $40,000. The US, at $14.9tn, is the largest economy and per capita incomes are similar to Japan's at $47,000, according to IMF data.China still practises export-led growth, a strategy that has served other developing countries well. Exports have accounted for 40-60% of Chinese GDP, while it is about 15% for the US and Japan. This has been a source of conflict, particularly as other developed economies seek to recover through exports.But China plans to rebalance its economy towards domestic demand, that is, shifting away from exports. It is in part a reaction to expected weaker imports from the west as consumers repay debt rather than spend at previous rates. The Chinese government also wants to avoid the protests at factory gates that occurred in 2009 when exports collapsed and workers were laid off en masse. China can make this shift because it has its own emerging middle class, which has achieved a reasonable level of income in the first three decades of the reform period.China has been talking about these reforms for a while, but notably changed its policy last autumn. The 12th Five Year Plan adopted then, which comes into effect next month, will be centred on developing the services sector, increasing urbanisation and improving incomes. Services comprise 40% of Chinese GDP, which is comparatively low. A number of services are non-tradeable, which helps to achieve the rebalancing aims. Also, just over half of the Chinese population is rural. The urbanisation drive will improve the livelihood of migrants by offering better employment opportunities and the chance to settle in cities. That will help to increase incomes and expand the consumer base. And improving incomes of urban workers is a key part of the strategy too. Wages may have been growing rapidly, but the share of income going to workers has declined, which partly explains the decline of consumption to 40% of GDP, which is lower than in other major economies.The overall aim, an ambitious one, is to sustain the next 30 years of growth. China is wary of the so-called \"middle-income country trap\" under which few countries join the ranks of the rich because growth slows in the absence of technological and productivity improvements. This means China will want to continue to integrate with the global economy so its firms can learn while competing on the world stage. But it also means it needs to reform its domestic economy to improve conditions for private firms and remove impediments in the labour market. This is crucial to sustain economic growth and help maintain social stability.These policy shifts suggest China has perhaps begun to realise it can be a major trader even when its economy is largely driven by its own consumers and firms, as is the case in the US and Japan. Rebalancing away from exports could also help to alleviate tensions with its trading partners. But other countries will want to see the 12th Five Year Plan earnestly implemented \u2013 sooner rather than later \u2013 in the world's now number two economy.", "tags": ["China", "Global economy", "World news", "Business", "Economics", "Japan", "US economy", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China looks for inner richness | Linda Yueh"},{"date": "2011-02-08T15:51:09Z", "country": "china", "content": "Here comes the bride, all dressed in ... plastic. At least she might be if you purchase one of the increasing number of commemorative toys being produced to cash in on the marriage of Prince William and Kate Middleton in April 2011.Never usually ones to miss out on a money-making opportunity, toy manufacturers are launching royal wedding-themed playthings aimed at children (who probably have no idea who Willliam and Kate are) and their parents in the hope that Wills and Kate fever will add to a toy market worth around \u00a32.7bn a year in the UK alone.The most talked about toy is the \u00a315 Happyland Royal Wedding Set, available to pre-order from the Early Learning Centre for delivery in March, though online customers have already begun receiving their sets. \"Prince William and Kate sit in a gold trimmed horse-drawn carriage while The Queen, Prince Phillip and their favourite corgi are protected by a Royal Cavalry soldier in full uniform and a foot soldier wearing a smart red jacket and bearskin helmet,\" the marketing blurb informs us.This is, admittedly, a cute set of figurines \u2013 albeit one featuring some interesting design choices. Prince Phillip seems to be sporting a reasonably thick head of hair, while William's equally follicly-challenged bonce is tastefully covered by a military cap. The happy couple have a permanently fixed wave, while the horses appear to be the same size as the 3\" human characters and the corgi more closely resembles a collie dog. But all of them have an unsettling blank stare, as though the happy royals have accidentally been crossed with a Stepford Wives toy range.Another cracker is the forthcoming Celebration Wedding Set from Sylvanian Families, a bizzare mixture of the real world and the fantasy realm of Sylvania \u2013 heavily populated by rabbits and other cute animals. William & Catherine Balmoral are both bunnies, while Louise and Amelia Periwinkle are rabbit bridesmaids and James Periwinkle a perky-looking rabbit page boy. Standing out starkly from the bucks and does is Reverend Kelvin Waters, who is possibly a beaver. Hours of endless fun for \u00a324.99.Corgi cars has also got in on the act, producing a \u00a39.99 1:36 scale navy blue Austin Mini \u2013 a limited edition celebration of \"all things British\", sporting an SW1 William & Kate London road sign on the side and a Union Jack roof. The toy car manufacturer has also produced a three-piece commemorative die cast set (featuring a Mini, London bus and a van) for \u00a324.99 and a 24 carat gold-plated commemorative die cast Model T Ford van (\u00a329.99). The vans sport a fetching portrait of Wills and Kate on the side, lest you forget who they are while your children are ramming them into your floorboards.Many readers will find the toys expensive, with prices not too dissimilar to items in the official range of china (which includes handmade cups for \u00a335 a pop and pill boxes at \u00a325), and Aynsley's royal wedding collection (coasters at \u00a39.95, Crown bells at \u00a319.95). But, of course, you cannot put a price on taste.Other items available across the web include commemorative jigsaws and teddy bears. But what I'd really like to see is a Star Wars-themed wedding set, with Prince Phillip as Darth Vader and The Queen as Yoda, Fergie as Mon Mothma and princesses Eugenie and Beatrice as Ewoks. Prince Edward and the Countess of Wessex could be C3PO and R2-D2 respectively, while at a push Prince Charles and Camilla could be Luke Skywalker's guardians Owen and Beru Lars. William and Kate would, of course, be Han Solo and Princess Leia, while Prince Harry would make a fine Jar Jar Binks.Or a Lord of the Rings wedding figurine set, featuring Prince William as Aragorn and Kate as Arwen and ... you get the idea. How else could toy manufacturers cash-in on the forthcoming nuptials? What other mergers of the film world and the royal family would you like to see immortalised in plastic? Do the toys offer genuine opportunities for fun and games, or are they simply soulless cash-ins designed to part parents from their cash?", "tags": ["Royal wedding", "Prince William", "Monarchy", "UK news", "The Duchess of Cambridge", "Toys", "Money", "Consumer affairs"], "title": "William & Kate - made in China"},{"date": "2011-01-14T11:42:31Z", "country": "china", "content": "China took a step towards a smog-free future today with the announcement of a wide new set of pollution controls.For the first time, the Ministry of Environmental Protection added ammonia nitrogen and nitrogen oxide to its list of reduction targets.As part of efforts to cut these emissions by 1.5% this year, the ministry said greater efforts will be made to cut vehicles' exhausts and to tackle the worst polluting industries, such as paper-making, textiles and chemical plants.In a website report, environmental minister Zhou Shengxian said the government will increase investment in waste-treatment plants and tighten standards for approval of construction projects.Few details were provided, but the announcement comes ahead of China's new five-year economic plan, which is expected to ramp up environmental protection.In the past two weeks, the government has also unveiled new measures to improve environmental monitoring and make the information quickly and widely available.The nitrogen compounds - along with new chemical goals - will be added to existing goals aimed to lower sulphur dioxide (which causes acid rain) and chemical oxygen demand (a measure of water contamination).It was only as recently as 2005 that bureaucrats first introduced numerical environmental targets in the state plan. Relatively modest goals were set to reduce sulphur dioxide and chemical oxygen demand.Even though these were achieved ahead of time, the gains were apparent in the statistics rather than the sky. Beijing and other cities remain shrouded in smog for much of the year.Having proved that success is possible, analysts believe bureaucrats now have the confidence to add other tougher targets that will make an evident impact.\"What they are trying to do this time is really push the ball forward to do enough to actually make a visible difference,\" said Deborah Seligsohn of the World Resources Institute. \"You are seeing a transition from showing effect to showing results.\"However critics say that if China wants to completely eradicate smog, it should also set reduction targets for persistent organic compounds, ozone and particulate matter.", "tags": ["Pollution", "Water", "Environment", "China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China sets new pollution controls"},{"date": "2011-01-12T18:06:09Z", "country": "china", "content": "China indicated that it planned to buy Spanish bonds at a crucial auction tomorrow, after purchasing Portuguese debt today, bringing much-needed investors' confidence to the two troubled countries.\"These are delicate times and we take a positive role,\" Yi Gang, deputy governor of the People's Bank of China, told the Guardian today. \"We have been and are a consistent buyer and we have a long-term view of our investments in Europe.\"In a closely watched sale of \u20ac599m (\u00a3497m) of sovereign bonds, Portugal's 10-year borrowing costs dipped to 6.7%, down from 6.8% at a previous auction \u2013 an about-turn on recent increases in debt-funding costs.Spain is planning to raise funds tomorrow, hoping to cut its practically unsustainable borrowing costs as well. The two Iberian countries are battling investors, who are betting they will follow Greece and Ireland into being bailed out by the European Union and the International Monetary Fund \u2013 and giving up a measure of fiscal independence.China, which already controls 13% of Spanish sovereign debt, said it was in its own interests to support the EU in times of trouble as the economic bloc is China's top trading partner. \"We will do our best to be a stabiliser in this process and support further integration of the EU,\" Yi said at a press conference in London, where a Chinese delegation has ended a European tour, following visits to Spain and Germany.The Chinese support, together with stronger defence of the euro from Brussels, sent stock markets rallying across Europe. It also lowered the cost of protecting \u20ac10m of Portuguese debt against default to \u20ac513,000, from \u20ac540,000 today, according to data from Markit. Spain's debt insurance costs also fell to \u20ac336,000, from \u20ac349,000.Some investors remained sceptical about prospects for economic growth in ailing southern Europe. Andr\u00e9 de Klerk, head of risk management at Moneycorp, said: \"The euro still remains weak against sterling and, with Germany quick to remind the EU of the ongoing nature of the European debt crisis, investors will remain nervous about the situation in Portugal over the coming months.\"", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Business", "European monetary union", "China", "World news", "Economics", "Global economy", "Financial sector", "Financial crisis", "Global recession", "Bonds", "Asia Pacific", "Europe"], "title": "'Positive' China buys Spanish bonds"},{"date": "2011-01-03T18:31:46Z", "country": "china", "content": "China's ambitions to lead the world in nuclear power were boosted today by reports that its scientists had mastered a key technique in the reprocessing of spent uranium.State media claimed the technology overcame a supply bottleneck and ensured China would have sufficient nuclear fuel for at least 3,000 years.The breakthrough would be a boon to the domestic industry, which is in the early stages of what looks likely to be the most spectacular burst of reactor-building in world history.Due to surging demand for energy and growing concerns about pollution, China's nuclear-power generating capacity is projected to increase up to tenfold in the next 10 years. By 2030 China could be on course to overtake the US as the world's leading atomic energy producer.The technology, developed and tested at the number 404 factory of the China National Nuclear Corporation, situated in the Gobi desert, enables recycling of irradiated fuel, according to China Central Television. How this differs from existing reprocessing methods in other countries is unclear, but the state broadcaster said that with this technique a kilo of uranium could produce close to 60 times more power than was now possible in China.If proven this method would extend the \"usage life\" of the 171,400 tonnes of the country's known uranium deposits, which previously were forecast to last less than 70 years.Reprocessing can also provide fissile material for weapons, though details have not yet been disclosed about the potential impact on China's nuclear arsenal.China first tested an atomic bomb in 1964, but it was slow to adopt nuclear power because of the cheapness and abundance of domestic coal, and the government was reluctant to depend on expensive foreign technology and uranium imports. But in recent years growing wealth and shifting environmental priorities have prompted a change.According to the International Atomic Energy Agency, China now has 13 operating reactors and 26 more facilities under construction.China National Nuclear Corporation said last year it planned to invest 800bn yuan (\u00a378bn) in the industry by 2020. China has already been replicating the technology of its foreign suppliers and is moving to design its own reactors and reprocessing plants. The next step is construction and overseas sales.", "tags": ["China", "Nuclear power", "Energy", "Environment", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China claims new nuclear technology"},{"date": "2011-03-22T14:00:18Z", "country": "china", "content": "Hsueh Sheng Wang was 13 when he arrived in France. Since then he has prospered, with business interests in food, clothing and property. A model for the Chinese community, he is in the process of buying part of the port at Le Havre in Normandy. Wang, 45, has plans for his company, Eurasia, to renovate dock warehouses covering 15 hectares and turn them into an import-export centre trading between France and China, a scheme on a par with the huge logistics platform that will soon be opening at Piraeus in Greece.As he likes France, he wants to invest here, Wang says. He takes great care when he speaks French, holding back his naturally quick tongue, and says he reads Le Monde and Le Figaro, unlike most of his compatriots, who prefer Chinese papers.He signed a preliminary purchase agreement in Le Havre last December and plans to invest $31m in the project. Work should start in September. The scheme is part of a pattern unfolding worldwide. \"The Chinese want to do the distribution and marketing themselves,\" says Herv\u00e9 Corn\u00e8de, the sales manager at the port.The rundown warehouses Wang is taking over are ideally placed. With a wharf on one side, they are close to a motorway junction and will be soon be accessible to rail freight. The plan is to import cheap Chinese products and export French luxury goods: \"Wine, perfume, haute couture, leather goods and so on.\" Wang has been working on the project for two years and there are drawings all over the big table in his gloomy Paris office.He is proud to be here, conscious that for many Chinese immigrants in France he is an inspiration, particularly for people from his home town of Wenzhou, 400km south of Shanghai. Many of them run small businesses, typically Chinese restaurants recently converted to sushi bars, bars or wholesale clothing stores.That is how Wang started, just one of countless hardworking folk who landed here in the 1970s, often undocumented, following in the footsteps of the Vietnamese boat people. He, too, laboured day and night with his family to pay off the loans obtained from his fellows with only his good name as collateral. He, too, was determined to make good.The progress of the Wang family was typical. Wang senior arrived first in 1973 and started work repairing furniture in Paris, his son explains. His mother and brother followed in 1976. \"I was the last to arrive, in 1978,\" he adds. He was 13 at the time. After two years' apprenticeship he joined the rest of the family working in a restaurant managed by his father in Cr\u00e9teil, outside Paris.In the 1980s, the family gave up the restaurant and switched to running a food shop. Then they moved north, to Lille, investing in the garment industry, in which they achieved spectacular growth. They started importing goods and by the mid-1990s were supplying leading chains such as Kiabi, Auchan, Pimkie and Foir'Fouille.Having moved back to the Paris area and established a position as one of the biggest wholesalers in Aubervilliers, the Wangs started acquiring commercial premises. They would buy or rent properties, then divide them up and sublet them to smaller wholesalers, mostly Chinese. A handful of Chinese immigrants adopted more or less the same business model, particularly around Aubervilliers, which is one of the biggest trading centres for Chinese goods in Europe. However, Wang's business is now large enough \u2013 turning over $22m in 2010 \u2013 for him to operate outside these traditional networks.Many think that his success is partly due to his love of France and an openness unusual in a businessman with his background. The Wang style also contributes to his success with the Chinese community in France. \"He has all the characteristics of a Chinese but he is not like the others,\" says an enthusiastic Tamara Lui, a writer based in Paris working for the Sing Tao [Hong Kong] daily. \"In a way we are all looking for the Wang in ourselves,\" she adds, referring to the anxiety of many Franco-Chinese, torn between their longing for success and integration and their reluctance to lose their original culture, particularly their language.However, many of his competitors are not so happy about his attitude. Although he devotes time to many Chinese organisations, as is generally expected of a man in his position, he has never accepted any form of public responsibility. \"No time,\" he says. But in the eyes of the Chinese community a man should never forget that success is also achieved through collective solidarity.For example, Wang is not a favourite with the network surrounding the former French prime minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin, which exerts a certain influence on Franco-Chinese relations. \"He is a Frenchified Chinese,\" says Alain Destrem, the conservative MP for the 15th arrondissement of Paris and head of the Club Europe-Chine Co-op\u00e9ration (ECC). \"He has lost his community spirit.\"It turns out that the ECC supports one of Wang's long-standing rivals, Wu Zhong, a businessman with a very similar career, who has been in France since 1994. Zhong is 42, almost the same age, and boasts the same initial backer, Li Yuping, a Chinese tycoon who still owns a symbolic share in Wang's company. Zhong's French is a little hesitant and his overall approach is more conventional, which is apparently more to Destrem's liking.According to Ling Lenzi, 42, one of Wang's closest business acquaintances, his distrust of the Wenzhouese community may be his only serious shortcoming. Even now he still manages his little empire with a workforce of fewer than 20 people, and he alone stands as guarantee for all his acquisitions. But she is sure of at least one key achievement: Wang is \"no longer just a Chinese shopkeeper\".This story originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Business", "China", "France", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Born in China, made in France"},{"date": "2011-02-14T18:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Although anticipated for some time, a symbolically important milestone has now been reached. China has officially overtaken Japan as the world's second-largest economy. Its rise has the potential to boost world growth, but also to increase tensions.China is still poor, so has the potential to grow quickly from a low level. But, as a developing country, it is likely to continue to focus on exports, though its latest economic strategy suggests it could begin to rebalance its economy towards domestic demand.If China is compared with the world's other largest economies, the differences are clear. It may be the second biggest in size, but ranks at 119 in terms of average incomes, according to World Bank data. Although Japan's $5.5tn economy is smaller than China's ($5.9tn), its average income is 10 times greater at $40,000. The US, at $14.9tn, is the largest economy and per capita incomes are similar to Japan's at $47,000, according to IMF data.China still practises export-led growth, a strategy that has served other developing countries well. Exports have accounted for 40-60% of Chinese GDP, while it is about 15% for the US and Japan. This has been a source of conflict, particularly as other developed economies seek to recover through exports.But China plans to rebalance its economy towards domestic demand, that is, shifting away from exports. It is in part a reaction to expected weaker imports from the west as consumers repay debt rather than spend at previous rates. The Chinese government also wants to avoid the protests at factory gates that occurred in 2009 when exports collapsed and workers were laid off en masse. China can make this shift because it has its own emerging middle class, which has achieved a reasonable level of income in the first three decades of the reform period.China has been talking about these reforms for a while, but notably changed its policy last autumn. The 12th Five Year Plan adopted then, which comes into effect next month, will be centred on developing the services sector, increasing urbanisation and improving incomes. Services comprise 40% of Chinese GDP, which is comparatively low. A number of services are non-tradeable, which helps to achieve the rebalancing aims. Also, just over half of the Chinese population is rural. The urbanisation drive will improve the livelihood of migrants by offering better employment opportunities and the chance to settle in cities. That will help to increase incomes and expand the consumer base. And improving incomes of urban workers is a key part of the strategy too. Wages may have been growing rapidly, but the share of income going to workers has declined, which partly explains the decline of consumption to 40% of GDP, which is lower than in other major economies.The overall aim, an ambitious one, is to sustain the next 30 years of growth. China is wary of the so-called \"middle-income country trap\" under which few countries join the ranks of the rich because growth slows in the absence of technological and productivity improvements. This means China will want to continue to integrate with the global economy so its firms can learn while competing on the world stage. But it also means it needs to reform its domestic economy to improve conditions for private firms and remove impediments in the labour market. This is crucial to sustain economic growth and help maintain social stability.These policy shifts suggest China has perhaps begun to realise it can be a major trader even when its economy is largely driven by its own consumers and firms, as is the case in the US and Japan. Rebalancing away from exports could also help to alleviate tensions with its trading partners. But other countries will want to see the 12th Five Year Plan earnestly implemented \u2013 sooner rather than later \u2013 in the world's now number two economy.", "tags": ["China", "Global economy", "World news", "Business", "Economics", "Japan", "US economy", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China looks for inner richness | Linda Yueh"},{"date": "2011-02-08T15:51:09Z", "country": "china", "content": "Here comes the bride, all dressed in ... plastic. At least she might be if you purchase one of the increasing number of commemorative toys being produced to cash in on the marriage of Prince William and Kate Middleton in April 2011.Never usually ones to miss out on a money-making opportunity, toy manufacturers are launching royal wedding-themed playthings aimed at children (who probably have no idea who Willliam and Kate are) and their parents in the hope that Wills and Kate fever will add to a toy market worth around \u00a32.7bn a year in the UK alone.The most talked about toy is the \u00a315 Happyland Royal Wedding Set, available to pre-order from the Early Learning Centre for delivery in March, though online customers have already begun receiving their sets. \"Prince William and Kate sit in a gold trimmed horse-drawn carriage while The Queen, Prince Phillip and their favourite corgi are protected by a Royal Cavalry soldier in full uniform and a foot soldier wearing a smart red jacket and bearskin helmet,\" the marketing blurb informs us.This is, admittedly, a cute set of figurines \u2013 albeit one featuring some interesting design choices. Prince Phillip seems to be sporting a reasonably thick head of hair, while William's equally follicly-challenged bonce is tastefully covered by a military cap. The happy couple have a permanently fixed wave, while the horses appear to be the same size as the 3\" human characters and the corgi more closely resembles a collie dog. But all of them have an unsettling blank stare, as though the happy royals have accidentally been crossed with a Stepford Wives toy range.Another cracker is the forthcoming Celebration Wedding Set from Sylvanian Families, a bizzare mixture of the real world and the fantasy realm of Sylvania \u2013 heavily populated by rabbits and other cute animals. William & Catherine Balmoral are both bunnies, while Louise and Amelia Periwinkle are rabbit bridesmaids and James Periwinkle a perky-looking rabbit page boy. Standing out starkly from the bucks and does is Reverend Kelvin Waters, who is possibly a beaver. Hours of endless fun for \u00a324.99.Corgi cars has also got in on the act, producing a \u00a39.99 1:36 scale navy blue Austin Mini \u2013 a limited edition celebration of \"all things British\", sporting an SW1 William & Kate London road sign on the side and a Union Jack roof. The toy car manufacturer has also produced a three-piece commemorative die cast set (featuring a Mini, London bus and a van) for \u00a324.99 and a 24 carat gold-plated commemorative die cast Model T Ford van (\u00a329.99). The vans sport a fetching portrait of Wills and Kate on the side, lest you forget who they are while your children are ramming them into your floorboards.Many readers will find the toys expensive, with prices not too dissimilar to items in the official range of china (which includes handmade cups for \u00a335 a pop and pill boxes at \u00a325), and Aynsley's royal wedding collection (coasters at \u00a39.95, Crown bells at \u00a319.95). But, of course, you cannot put a price on taste.Other items available across the web include commemorative jigsaws and teddy bears. But what I'd really like to see is a Star Wars-themed wedding set, with Prince Phillip as Darth Vader and The Queen as Yoda, Fergie as Mon Mothma and princesses Eugenie and Beatrice as Ewoks. Prince Edward and the Countess of Wessex could be C3PO and R2-D2 respectively, while at a push Prince Charles and Camilla could be Luke Skywalker's guardians Owen and Beru Lars. William and Kate would, of course, be Han Solo and Princess Leia, while Prince Harry would make a fine Jar Jar Binks.Or a Lord of the Rings wedding figurine set, featuring Prince William as Aragorn and Kate as Arwen and ... you get the idea. How else could toy manufacturers cash-in on the forthcoming nuptials? What other mergers of the film world and the royal family would you like to see immortalised in plastic? Do the toys offer genuine opportunities for fun and games, or are they simply soulless cash-ins designed to part parents from their cash?", "tags": ["Royal wedding", "Prince William", "Monarchy", "UK news", "The Duchess of Cambridge", "Toys", "Money", "Consumer affairs"], "title": "William & Kate - made in China"},{"date": "2011-01-14T11:42:31Z", "country": "china", "content": "China took a step towards a smog-free future today with the announcement of a wide new set of pollution controls.For the first time, the Ministry of Environmental Protection added ammonia nitrogen and nitrogen oxide to its list of reduction targets.As part of efforts to cut these emissions by 1.5% this year, the ministry said greater efforts will be made to cut vehicles' exhausts and to tackle the worst polluting industries, such as paper-making, textiles and chemical plants.In a website report, environmental minister Zhou Shengxian said the government will increase investment in waste-treatment plants and tighten standards for approval of construction projects.Few details were provided, but the announcement comes ahead of China's new five-year economic plan, which is expected to ramp up environmental protection.In the past two weeks, the government has also unveiled new measures to improve environmental monitoring and make the information quickly and widely available.The nitrogen compounds - along with new chemical goals - will be added to existing goals aimed to lower sulphur dioxide (which causes acid rain) and chemical oxygen demand (a measure of water contamination).It was only as recently as 2005 that bureaucrats first introduced numerical environmental targets in the state plan. Relatively modest goals were set to reduce sulphur dioxide and chemical oxygen demand.Even though these were achieved ahead of time, the gains were apparent in the statistics rather than the sky. Beijing and other cities remain shrouded in smog for much of the year.Having proved that success is possible, analysts believe bureaucrats now have the confidence to add other tougher targets that will make an evident impact.\"What they are trying to do this time is really push the ball forward to do enough to actually make a visible difference,\" said Deborah Seligsohn of the World Resources Institute. \"You are seeing a transition from showing effect to showing results.\"However critics say that if China wants to completely eradicate smog, it should also set reduction targets for persistent organic compounds, ozone and particulate matter.", "tags": ["Pollution", "Water", "Environment", "China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China sets new pollution controls"},{"date": "2011-01-12T18:06:09Z", "country": "china", "content": "China indicated that it planned to buy Spanish bonds at a crucial auction tomorrow, after purchasing Portuguese debt today, bringing much-needed investors' confidence to the two troubled countries.\"These are delicate times and we take a positive role,\" Yi Gang, deputy governor of the People's Bank of China, told the Guardian today. \"We have been and are a consistent buyer and we have a long-term view of our investments in Europe.\"In a closely watched sale of \u20ac599m (\u00a3497m) of sovereign bonds, Portugal's 10-year borrowing costs dipped to 6.7%, down from 6.8% at a previous auction \u2013 an about-turn on recent increases in debt-funding costs.Spain is planning to raise funds tomorrow, hoping to cut its practically unsustainable borrowing costs as well. The two Iberian countries are battling investors, who are betting they will follow Greece and Ireland into being bailed out by the European Union and the International Monetary Fund \u2013 and giving up a measure of fiscal independence.China, which already controls 13% of Spanish sovereign debt, said it was in its own interests to support the EU in times of trouble as the economic bloc is China's top trading partner. \"We will do our best to be a stabiliser in this process and support further integration of the EU,\" Yi said at a press conference in London, where a Chinese delegation has ended a European tour, following visits to Spain and Germany.The Chinese support, together with stronger defence of the euro from Brussels, sent stock markets rallying across Europe. It also lowered the cost of protecting \u20ac10m of Portuguese debt against default to \u20ac513,000, from \u20ac540,000 today, according to data from Markit. Spain's debt insurance costs also fell to \u20ac336,000, from \u20ac349,000.Some investors remained sceptical about prospects for economic growth in ailing southern Europe. Andr\u00e9 de Klerk, head of risk management at Moneycorp, said: \"The euro still remains weak against sterling and, with Germany quick to remind the EU of the ongoing nature of the European debt crisis, investors will remain nervous about the situation in Portugal over the coming months.\"", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Business", "European monetary union", "China", "World news", "Economics", "Global economy", "Financial sector", "Financial crisis", "Global recession", "Bonds", "Asia Pacific", "Europe"], "title": "'Positive' China buys Spanish bonds"},{"date": "2011-01-03T18:31:46Z", "country": "china", "content": "China's ambitions to lead the world in nuclear power were boosted today by reports that its scientists had mastered a key technique in the reprocessing of spent uranium.State media claimed the technology overcame a supply bottleneck and ensured China would have sufficient nuclear fuel for at least 3,000 years.The breakthrough would be a boon to the domestic industry, which is in the early stages of what looks likely to be the most spectacular burst of reactor-building in world history.Due to surging demand for energy and growing concerns about pollution, China's nuclear-power generating capacity is projected to increase up to tenfold in the next 10 years. By 2030 China could be on course to overtake the US as the world's leading atomic energy producer.The technology, developed and tested at the number 404 factory of the China National Nuclear Corporation, situated in the Gobi desert, enables recycling of irradiated fuel, according to China Central Television. How this differs from existing reprocessing methods in other countries is unclear, but the state broadcaster said that with this technique a kilo of uranium could produce close to 60 times more power than was now possible in China.If proven this method would extend the \"usage life\" of the 171,400 tonnes of the country's known uranium deposits, which previously were forecast to last less than 70 years.Reprocessing can also provide fissile material for weapons, though details have not yet been disclosed about the potential impact on China's nuclear arsenal.China first tested an atomic bomb in 1964, but it was slow to adopt nuclear power because of the cheapness and abundance of domestic coal, and the government was reluctant to depend on expensive foreign technology and uranium imports. But in recent years growing wealth and shifting environmental priorities have prompted a change.According to the International Atomic Energy Agency, China now has 13 operating reactors and 26 more facilities under construction.China National Nuclear Corporation said last year it planned to invest 800bn yuan (\u00a378bn) in the industry by 2020. China has already been replicating the technology of its foreign suppliers and is moving to design its own reactors and reprocessing plants. The next step is construction and overseas sales.", "tags": ["China", "Nuclear power", "Energy", "Environment", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China claims new nuclear technology"},{"date": "2011-03-22T14:00:18Z", "country": "china", "content": "Hsueh Sheng Wang was 13 when he arrived in France. Since then he has prospered, with business interests in food, clothing and property. A model for the Chinese community, he is in the process of buying part of the port at Le Havre in Normandy. Wang, 45, has plans for his company, Eurasia, to renovate dock warehouses covering 15 hectares and turn them into an import-export centre trading between France and China, a scheme on a par with the huge logistics platform that will soon be opening at Piraeus in Greece.As he likes France, he wants to invest here, Wang says. He takes great care when he speaks French, holding back his naturally quick tongue, and says he reads Le Monde and Le Figaro, unlike most of his compatriots, who prefer Chinese papers.He signed a preliminary purchase agreement in Le Havre last December and plans to invest $31m in the project. Work should start in September. The scheme is part of a pattern unfolding worldwide. \"The Chinese want to do the distribution and marketing themselves,\" says Herv\u00e9 Corn\u00e8de, the sales manager at the port.The rundown warehouses Wang is taking over are ideally placed. With a wharf on one side, they are close to a motorway junction and will be soon be accessible to rail freight. The plan is to import cheap Chinese products and export French luxury goods: \"Wine, perfume, haute couture, leather goods and so on.\" Wang has been working on the project for two years and there are drawings all over the big table in his gloomy Paris office.He is proud to be here, conscious that for many Chinese immigrants in France he is an inspiration, particularly for people from his home town of Wenzhou, 400km south of Shanghai. Many of them run small businesses, typically Chinese restaurants recently converted to sushi bars, bars or wholesale clothing stores.That is how Wang started, just one of countless hardworking folk who landed here in the 1970s, often undocumented, following in the footsteps of the Vietnamese boat people. He, too, laboured day and night with his family to pay off the loans obtained from his fellows with only his good name as collateral. He, too, was determined to make good.The progress of the Wang family was typical. Wang senior arrived first in 1973 and started work repairing furniture in Paris, his son explains. His mother and brother followed in 1976. \"I was the last to arrive, in 1978,\" he adds. He was 13 at the time. After two years' apprenticeship he joined the rest of the family working in a restaurant managed by his father in Cr\u00e9teil, outside Paris.In the 1980s, the family gave up the restaurant and switched to running a food shop. Then they moved north, to Lille, investing in the garment industry, in which they achieved spectacular growth. They started importing goods and by the mid-1990s were supplying leading chains such as Kiabi, Auchan, Pimkie and Foir'Fouille.Having moved back to the Paris area and established a position as one of the biggest wholesalers in Aubervilliers, the Wangs started acquiring commercial premises. They would buy or rent properties, then divide them up and sublet them to smaller wholesalers, mostly Chinese. A handful of Chinese immigrants adopted more or less the same business model, particularly around Aubervilliers, which is one of the biggest trading centres for Chinese goods in Europe. However, Wang's business is now large enough \u2013 turning over $22m in 2010 \u2013 for him to operate outside these traditional networks.Many think that his success is partly due to his love of France and an openness unusual in a businessman with his background. The Wang style also contributes to his success with the Chinese community in France. \"He has all the characteristics of a Chinese but he is not like the others,\" says an enthusiastic Tamara Lui, a writer based in Paris working for the Sing Tao [Hong Kong] daily. \"In a way we are all looking for the Wang in ourselves,\" she adds, referring to the anxiety of many Franco-Chinese, torn between their longing for success and integration and their reluctance to lose their original culture, particularly their language.However, many of his competitors are not so happy about his attitude. Although he devotes time to many Chinese organisations, as is generally expected of a man in his position, he has never accepted any form of public responsibility. \"No time,\" he says. But in the eyes of the Chinese community a man should never forget that success is also achieved through collective solidarity.For example, Wang is not a favourite with the network surrounding the former French prime minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin, which exerts a certain influence on Franco-Chinese relations. \"He is a Frenchified Chinese,\" says Alain Destrem, the conservative MP for the 15th arrondissement of Paris and head of the Club Europe-Chine Co-op\u00e9ration (ECC). \"He has lost his community spirit.\"It turns out that the ECC supports one of Wang's long-standing rivals, Wu Zhong, a businessman with a very similar career, who has been in France since 1994. Zhong is 42, almost the same age, and boasts the same initial backer, Li Yuping, a Chinese tycoon who still owns a symbolic share in Wang's company. Zhong's French is a little hesitant and his overall approach is more conventional, which is apparently more to Destrem's liking.According to Ling Lenzi, 42, one of Wang's closest business acquaintances, his distrust of the Wenzhouese community may be his only serious shortcoming. Even now he still manages his little empire with a workforce of fewer than 20 people, and he alone stands as guarantee for all his acquisitions. But she is sure of at least one key achievement: Wang is \"no longer just a Chinese shopkeeper\".This story originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Business", "China", "France", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Born in China, made in France"},{"date": "2011-03-16T13:11:07Z", "country": "china", "content": "David Ignatius has an interesting column in The Washington Post this morning explaining why Bahrain might be the issue that has the most dramatic impact on the future of US foreign policy. Why Bahrain? Because Saudi Arabia cares a great deal about what happens there, and Saudi Arabia is rather important. Ignatius:U.S. officials have been arguing that Bahrain's Sunni monarchy must make political compromises to give more power to the Shiite majority there. The most emphatic statement came last weekend from Defense Secretary Bob Gates, who said during a visit to Bahrain that its \"baby steps\" toward reform weren't enough and that the kingdom should step up its negotiations with the opposition.This American enthusiasm for change has been anathema to the conservative regimes of the Gulf, and on Monday they backed Bahrain's ruling Khalifa family with military force, marching about 2,000 troops up the causeway that links Bahrain to Saudi Arabia. A senior Saudi official told me the intervention was needed to protect Bahrain's financial district and other key facilities from violent demonstrations. He warned that radical, Iranian-backed leaders were becoming more active in the protests.\"We don't want Iran 14 miles off our coast, and that's not going to happen,\" said the Saudi official. U.S. officials counter that Iran, so far, has been only a minor player in the Bahrain protests and that Saudi military intervention could backfire by strengthening Iran's hand.Well, first of all, it always surprises and depresses me that people like this Saudi official can't see that creating some room for reform and dissent strengthens a society instead of weakening it. It's only when people feel completely shut out and oppressed that they turn to others. If they felt they had a stake in the society, they'd contribute to it.We had our own version of this debate in the US in the 1950s. American cold war liberals generally said: let socialist governments govern. As long as they're anti-communist - and usually, socialists were the biggest anti-communists of all, because they knew the bastards the best - let them take the helm if they win. With no basis on which to appeal to socialists for solidarity, communists will be that much more shut out.Conservative said horse manure, socialists are communists in sheeps' clothing. So, when in real life a socialist non-communist, Mossadegh, won an election in Iran, we at first let him govern (Truman and Acheson) but eventually and inevitably overthrew him (Eisenhower and Dulles). The results, you will all agree, have been absolutely wonderful to this day.But this is the way it is. Conservatives fear any unknown. They raise bogeymen (in Iran in 1953, communists; in Bahrain today, Iran) and scare people and it works nearly every time. But all this is not even the real reason I'm writing this post, so let's get to that, shall we?Farther down, Ignatius writes that Bahrain is \"the most important U.S.-Saudi disagreement in decades\" and unless resolved (and \"resolved\" of course means to the Saudis reverted to the status quo) will open up a major chasm:The Obama administration, in effect, is altering America's long-standing commitment to the status quo in the Gulf, believing that change in Bahrain \u2014 as in Egypt, Tunisia and Libya \u2014 is inevitable and desirable.The split reflects fundamental differences in strategic outlook. The Gulf regimes have come to mistrust Obama, seeing him as a weak president who will sacrifice traditional allies in his eagerness be \"on the right side of history.\" They liken Obama's rejection of Hosni Mubarak in Egypt to Jimmy Carter's 1979 abandonment of the shah of Iran. The crackup was predicted by a top UAE sheik in a February meeting with two visiting former U.S. officials. According to notes made during the conversation, the UAE official said: \"We and the Saudis will not accept a Shiite government in Bahrain. And if your president says to the Khalifas what he said to Mubarak [to leave office], it will cause a break in our relationship with the U.S.\" The UAE official warned that Gulf nations were \"looking East\" \u2014 to China, India and Turkey \u2014 for alternative security assistance.This got me wondering. America of course is called the world's policeman. What if, 25 years from now say, that were China?I'm asking out of genuine curiosity. I'm sure some of you will think of ramifications that elude me. We begin with the obvious downside that the US will no longer be the world's #1. Well, the neocons will thunder about that, but the rest of us might welcome some aspects of it. It would surely force Europe to spend more on military matters, if the US were no longer the feudal lord and protector, and America could spend less, maybe. It could also force the US and the EU to coordinate more.What it would mean for the people of the world could depend to some extent on what sort of society China itself is in the future. People who disparage American imperialism tend to forget that the US spends many billions on democracy and civil society and the promotion of women's rights and other things through quasi-governmental endowments and agencies. China has a big Africa investment fund, but I doubt much of it goes toward those sorts of things.Of course, the world's policeman also tends to get to be the world's banker, and that's the rub, really. What happens if China starts running global monetary policy? (Or is it already?)This very idea is going to provoke howls from the right, but I think that's alarmist twaddle. England once ran the world. Then it didn't. It's still a strong and wealthy and important country, and I'm sure some of you are prepared to point out ways in which it's better off without those obligations. Of course, I fear that in the end here, the Obama administration will capitulate to the Saudis and let the Bahrain regime have its way. For good or ill, the US will do whatever it has to do to prevent Saudi and the UAE from \"looking east.\" But it's an interesting thought experiment. Have at it.", "tags": ["Obama administration", "US foreign policy", "Saudi Arabia", "China", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "What if China became the world's policeman? | Michael Tomasy"},{"date": "2011-02-14T18:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Although anticipated for some time, a symbolically important milestone has now been reached. China has officially overtaken Japan as the world's second-largest economy. Its rise has the potential to boost world growth, but also to increase tensions.China is still poor, so has the potential to grow quickly from a low level. But, as a developing country, it is likely to continue to focus on exports, though its latest economic strategy suggests it could begin to rebalance its economy towards domestic demand.If China is compared with the world's other largest economies, the differences are clear. It may be the second biggest in size, but ranks at 119 in terms of average incomes, according to World Bank data. Although Japan's $5.5tn economy is smaller than China's ($5.9tn), its average income is 10 times greater at $40,000. The US, at $14.9tn, is the largest economy and per capita incomes are similar to Japan's at $47,000, according to IMF data.China still practises export-led growth, a strategy that has served other developing countries well. Exports have accounted for 40-60% of Chinese GDP, while it is about 15% for the US and Japan. This has been a source of conflict, particularly as other developed economies seek to recover through exports.But China plans to rebalance its economy towards domestic demand, that is, shifting away from exports. It is in part a reaction to expected weaker imports from the west as consumers repay debt rather than spend at previous rates. The Chinese government also wants to avoid the protests at factory gates that occurred in 2009 when exports collapsed and workers were laid off en masse. China can make this shift because it has its own emerging middle class, which has achieved a reasonable level of income in the first three decades of the reform period.China has been talking about these reforms for a while, but notably changed its policy last autumn. The 12th Five Year Plan adopted then, which comes into effect next month, will be centred on developing the services sector, increasing urbanisation and improving incomes. Services comprise 40% of Chinese GDP, which is comparatively low. A number of services are non-tradeable, which helps to achieve the rebalancing aims. Also, just over half of the Chinese population is rural. The urbanisation drive will improve the livelihood of migrants by offering better employment opportunities and the chance to settle in cities. That will help to increase incomes and expand the consumer base. And improving incomes of urban workers is a key part of the strategy too. Wages may have been growing rapidly, but the share of income going to workers has declined, which partly explains the decline of consumption to 40% of GDP, which is lower than in other major economies.The overall aim, an ambitious one, is to sustain the next 30 years of growth. China is wary of the so-called \"middle-income country trap\" under which few countries join the ranks of the rich because growth slows in the absence of technological and productivity improvements. This means China will want to continue to integrate with the global economy so its firms can learn while competing on the world stage. But it also means it needs to reform its domestic economy to improve conditions for private firms and remove impediments in the labour market. This is crucial to sustain economic growth and help maintain social stability.These policy shifts suggest China has perhaps begun to realise it can be a major trader even when its economy is largely driven by its own consumers and firms, as is the case in the US and Japan. Rebalancing away from exports could also help to alleviate tensions with its trading partners. But other countries will want to see the 12th Five Year Plan earnestly implemented \u2013 sooner rather than later \u2013 in the world's now number two economy.", "tags": ["China", "Global economy", "World news", "Business", "Economics", "Japan", "US economy", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China looks for inner richness | Linda Yueh"},{"date": "2011-02-08T15:51:09Z", "country": "china", "content": "Here comes the bride, all dressed in ... plastic. At least she might be if you purchase one of the increasing number of commemorative toys being produced to cash in on the marriage of Prince William and Kate Middleton in April 2011.Never usually ones to miss out on a money-making opportunity, toy manufacturers are launching royal wedding-themed playthings aimed at children (who probably have no idea who Willliam and Kate are) and their parents in the hope that Wills and Kate fever will add to a toy market worth around \u00a32.7bn a year in the UK alone.The most talked about toy is the \u00a315 Happyland Royal Wedding Set, available to pre-order from the Early Learning Centre for delivery in March, though online customers have already begun receiving their sets. \"Prince William and Kate sit in a gold trimmed horse-drawn carriage while The Queen, Prince Phillip and their favourite corgi are protected by a Royal Cavalry soldier in full uniform and a foot soldier wearing a smart red jacket and bearskin helmet,\" the marketing blurb informs us.This is, admittedly, a cute set of figurines \u2013 albeit one featuring some interesting design choices. Prince Phillip seems to be sporting a reasonably thick head of hair, while William's equally follicly-challenged bonce is tastefully covered by a military cap. The happy couple have a permanently fixed wave, while the horses appear to be the same size as the 3\" human characters and the corgi more closely resembles a collie dog. But all of them have an unsettling blank stare, as though the happy royals have accidentally been crossed with a Stepford Wives toy range.Another cracker is the forthcoming Celebration Wedding Set from Sylvanian Families, a bizzare mixture of the real world and the fantasy realm of Sylvania \u2013 heavily populated by rabbits and other cute animals. William & Catherine Balmoral are both bunnies, while Louise and Amelia Periwinkle are rabbit bridesmaids and James Periwinkle a perky-looking rabbit page boy. Standing out starkly from the bucks and does is Reverend Kelvin Waters, who is possibly a beaver. Hours of endless fun for \u00a324.99.Corgi cars has also got in on the act, producing a \u00a39.99 1:36 scale navy blue Austin Mini \u2013 a limited edition celebration of \"all things British\", sporting an SW1 William & Kate London road sign on the side and a Union Jack roof. The toy car manufacturer has also produced a three-piece commemorative die cast set (featuring a Mini, London bus and a van) for \u00a324.99 and a 24 carat gold-plated commemorative die cast Model T Ford van (\u00a329.99). The vans sport a fetching portrait of Wills and Kate on the side, lest you forget who they are while your children are ramming them into your floorboards.Many readers will find the toys expensive, with prices not too dissimilar to items in the official range of china (which includes handmade cups for \u00a335 a pop and pill boxes at \u00a325), and Aynsley's royal wedding collection (coasters at \u00a39.95, Crown bells at \u00a319.95). But, of course, you cannot put a price on taste.Other items available across the web include commemorative jigsaws and teddy bears. But what I'd really like to see is a Star Wars-themed wedding set, with Prince Phillip as Darth Vader and The Queen as Yoda, Fergie as Mon Mothma and princesses Eugenie and Beatrice as Ewoks. Prince Edward and the Countess of Wessex could be C3PO and R2-D2 respectively, while at a push Prince Charles and Camilla could be Luke Skywalker's guardians Owen and Beru Lars. William and Kate would, of course, be Han Solo and Princess Leia, while Prince Harry would make a fine Jar Jar Binks.Or a Lord of the Rings wedding figurine set, featuring Prince William as Aragorn and Kate as Arwen and ... you get the idea. How else could toy manufacturers cash-in on the forthcoming nuptials? What other mergers of the film world and the royal family would you like to see immortalised in plastic? Do the toys offer genuine opportunities for fun and games, or are they simply soulless cash-ins designed to part parents from their cash?", "tags": ["Royal wedding", "Prince William", "Monarchy", "UK news", "The Duchess of Cambridge", "Toys", "Money", "Consumer affairs"], "title": "William & Kate - made in China"},{"date": "2011-01-14T11:42:31Z", "country": "china", "content": "China took a step towards a smog-free future today with the announcement of a wide new set of pollution controls.For the first time, the Ministry of Environmental Protection added ammonia nitrogen and nitrogen oxide to its list of reduction targets.As part of efforts to cut these emissions by 1.5% this year, the ministry said greater efforts will be made to cut vehicles' exhausts and to tackle the worst polluting industries, such as paper-making, textiles and chemical plants.In a website report, environmental minister Zhou Shengxian said the government will increase investment in waste-treatment plants and tighten standards for approval of construction projects.Few details were provided, but the announcement comes ahead of China's new five-year economic plan, which is expected to ramp up environmental protection.In the past two weeks, the government has also unveiled new measures to improve environmental monitoring and make the information quickly and widely available.The nitrogen compounds - along with new chemical goals - will be added to existing goals aimed to lower sulphur dioxide (which causes acid rain) and chemical oxygen demand (a measure of water contamination).It was only as recently as 2005 that bureaucrats first introduced numerical environmental targets in the state plan. Relatively modest goals were set to reduce sulphur dioxide and chemical oxygen demand.Even though these were achieved ahead of time, the gains were apparent in the statistics rather than the sky. Beijing and other cities remain shrouded in smog for much of the year.Having proved that success is possible, analysts believe bureaucrats now have the confidence to add other tougher targets that will make an evident impact.\"What they are trying to do this time is really push the ball forward to do enough to actually make a visible difference,\" said Deborah Seligsohn of the World Resources Institute. \"You are seeing a transition from showing effect to showing results.\"However critics say that if China wants to completely eradicate smog, it should also set reduction targets for persistent organic compounds, ozone and particulate matter.", "tags": ["Pollution", "Water", "Environment", "China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China sets new pollution controls"},{"date": "2011-01-12T18:06:09Z", "country": "china", "content": "China indicated that it planned to buy Spanish bonds at a crucial auction tomorrow, after purchasing Portuguese debt today, bringing much-needed investors' confidence to the two troubled countries.\"These are delicate times and we take a positive role,\" Yi Gang, deputy governor of the People's Bank of China, told the Guardian today. \"We have been and are a consistent buyer and we have a long-term view of our investments in Europe.\"In a closely watched sale of \u20ac599m (\u00a3497m) of sovereign bonds, Portugal's 10-year borrowing costs dipped to 6.7%, down from 6.8% at a previous auction \u2013 an about-turn on recent increases in debt-funding costs.Spain is planning to raise funds tomorrow, hoping to cut its practically unsustainable borrowing costs as well. The two Iberian countries are battling investors, who are betting they will follow Greece and Ireland into being bailed out by the European Union and the International Monetary Fund \u2013 and giving up a measure of fiscal independence.China, which already controls 13% of Spanish sovereign debt, said it was in its own interests to support the EU in times of trouble as the economic bloc is China's top trading partner. \"We will do our best to be a stabiliser in this process and support further integration of the EU,\" Yi said at a press conference in London, where a Chinese delegation has ended a European tour, following visits to Spain and Germany.The Chinese support, together with stronger defence of the euro from Brussels, sent stock markets rallying across Europe. It also lowered the cost of protecting \u20ac10m of Portuguese debt against default to \u20ac513,000, from \u20ac540,000 today, according to data from Markit. Spain's debt insurance costs also fell to \u20ac336,000, from \u20ac349,000.Some investors remained sceptical about prospects for economic growth in ailing southern Europe. Andr\u00e9 de Klerk, head of risk management at Moneycorp, said: \"The euro still remains weak against sterling and, with Germany quick to remind the EU of the ongoing nature of the European debt crisis, investors will remain nervous about the situation in Portugal over the coming months.\"", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Business", "European monetary union", "China", "World news", "Economics", "Global economy", "Financial sector", "Financial crisis", "Global recession", "Bonds", "Asia Pacific", "Europe"], "title": "'Positive' China buys Spanish bonds"},{"date": "2011-01-03T18:31:46Z", "country": "china", "content": "China's ambitions to lead the world in nuclear power were boosted today by reports that its scientists had mastered a key technique in the reprocessing of spent uranium.State media claimed the technology overcame a supply bottleneck and ensured China would have sufficient nuclear fuel for at least 3,000 years.The breakthrough would be a boon to the domestic industry, which is in the early stages of what looks likely to be the most spectacular burst of reactor-building in world history.Due to surging demand for energy and growing concerns about pollution, China's nuclear-power generating capacity is projected to increase up to tenfold in the next 10 years. By 2030 China could be on course to overtake the US as the world's leading atomic energy producer.The technology, developed and tested at the number 404 factory of the China National Nuclear Corporation, situated in the Gobi desert, enables recycling of irradiated fuel, according to China Central Television. How this differs from existing reprocessing methods in other countries is unclear, but the state broadcaster said that with this technique a kilo of uranium could produce close to 60 times more power than was now possible in China.If proven this method would extend the \"usage life\" of the 171,400 tonnes of the country's known uranium deposits, which previously were forecast to last less than 70 years.Reprocessing can also provide fissile material for weapons, though details have not yet been disclosed about the potential impact on China's nuclear arsenal.China first tested an atomic bomb in 1964, but it was slow to adopt nuclear power because of the cheapness and abundance of domestic coal, and the government was reluctant to depend on expensive foreign technology and uranium imports. But in recent years growing wealth and shifting environmental priorities have prompted a change.According to the International Atomic Energy Agency, China now has 13 operating reactors and 26 more facilities under construction.China National Nuclear Corporation said last year it planned to invest 800bn yuan (\u00a378bn) in the industry by 2020. China has already been replicating the technology of its foreign suppliers and is moving to design its own reactors and reprocessing plants. The next step is construction and overseas sales.", "tags": ["China", "Nuclear power", "Energy", "Environment", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China claims new nuclear technology"},{"date": "2011-03-22T14:00:18Z", "country": "china", "content": "Hsueh Sheng Wang was 13 when he arrived in France. Since then he has prospered, with business interests in food, clothing and property. A model for the Chinese community, he is in the process of buying part of the port at Le Havre in Normandy. Wang, 45, has plans for his company, Eurasia, to renovate dock warehouses covering 15 hectares and turn them into an import-export centre trading between France and China, a scheme on a par with the huge logistics platform that will soon be opening at Piraeus in Greece.As he likes France, he wants to invest here, Wang says. He takes great care when he speaks French, holding back his naturally quick tongue, and says he reads Le Monde and Le Figaro, unlike most of his compatriots, who prefer Chinese papers.He signed a preliminary purchase agreement in Le Havre last December and plans to invest $31m in the project. Work should start in September. The scheme is part of a pattern unfolding worldwide. \"The Chinese want to do the distribution and marketing themselves,\" says Herv\u00e9 Corn\u00e8de, the sales manager at the port.The rundown warehouses Wang is taking over are ideally placed. With a wharf on one side, they are close to a motorway junction and will be soon be accessible to rail freight. The plan is to import cheap Chinese products and export French luxury goods: \"Wine, perfume, haute couture, leather goods and so on.\" Wang has been working on the project for two years and there are drawings all over the big table in his gloomy Paris office.He is proud to be here, conscious that for many Chinese immigrants in France he is an inspiration, particularly for people from his home town of Wenzhou, 400km south of Shanghai. Many of them run small businesses, typically Chinese restaurants recently converted to sushi bars, bars or wholesale clothing stores.That is how Wang started, just one of countless hardworking folk who landed here in the 1970s, often undocumented, following in the footsteps of the Vietnamese boat people. He, too, laboured day and night with his family to pay off the loans obtained from his fellows with only his good name as collateral. He, too, was determined to make good.The progress of the Wang family was typical. Wang senior arrived first in 1973 and started work repairing furniture in Paris, his son explains. His mother and brother followed in 1976. \"I was the last to arrive, in 1978,\" he adds. He was 13 at the time. After two years' apprenticeship he joined the rest of the family working in a restaurant managed by his father in Cr\u00e9teil, outside Paris.In the 1980s, the family gave up the restaurant and switched to running a food shop. Then they moved north, to Lille, investing in the garment industry, in which they achieved spectacular growth. They started importing goods and by the mid-1990s were supplying leading chains such as Kiabi, Auchan, Pimkie and Foir'Fouille.Having moved back to the Paris area and established a position as one of the biggest wholesalers in Aubervilliers, the Wangs started acquiring commercial premises. They would buy or rent properties, then divide them up and sublet them to smaller wholesalers, mostly Chinese. A handful of Chinese immigrants adopted more or less the same business model, particularly around Aubervilliers, which is one of the biggest trading centres for Chinese goods in Europe. However, Wang's business is now large enough \u2013 turning over $22m in 2010 \u2013 for him to operate outside these traditional networks.Many think that his success is partly due to his love of France and an openness unusual in a businessman with his background. The Wang style also contributes to his success with the Chinese community in France. \"He has all the characteristics of a Chinese but he is not like the others,\" says an enthusiastic Tamara Lui, a writer based in Paris working for the Sing Tao [Hong Kong] daily. \"In a way we are all looking for the Wang in ourselves,\" she adds, referring to the anxiety of many Franco-Chinese, torn between their longing for success and integration and their reluctance to lose their original culture, particularly their language.However, many of his competitors are not so happy about his attitude. Although he devotes time to many Chinese organisations, as is generally expected of a man in his position, he has never accepted any form of public responsibility. \"No time,\" he says. But in the eyes of the Chinese community a man should never forget that success is also achieved through collective solidarity.For example, Wang is not a favourite with the network surrounding the former French prime minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin, which exerts a certain influence on Franco-Chinese relations. \"He is a Frenchified Chinese,\" says Alain Destrem, the conservative MP for the 15th arrondissement of Paris and head of the Club Europe-Chine Co-op\u00e9ration (ECC). \"He has lost his community spirit.\"It turns out that the ECC supports one of Wang's long-standing rivals, Wu Zhong, a businessman with a very similar career, who has been in France since 1994. Zhong is 42, almost the same age, and boasts the same initial backer, Li Yuping, a Chinese tycoon who still owns a symbolic share in Wang's company. Zhong's French is a little hesitant and his overall approach is more conventional, which is apparently more to Destrem's liking.According to Ling Lenzi, 42, one of Wang's closest business acquaintances, his distrust of the Wenzhouese community may be his only serious shortcoming. Even now he still manages his little empire with a workforce of fewer than 20 people, and he alone stands as guarantee for all his acquisitions. But she is sure of at least one key achievement: Wang is \"no longer just a Chinese shopkeeper\".This story originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Business", "China", "France", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Born in China, made in France"},{"date": "2011-03-16T13:11:07Z", "country": "china", "content": "David Ignatius has an interesting column in The Washington Post this morning explaining why Bahrain might be the issue that has the most dramatic impact on the future of US foreign policy. Why Bahrain? Because Saudi Arabia cares a great deal about what happens there, and Saudi Arabia is rather important. Ignatius:U.S. officials have been arguing that Bahrain's Sunni monarchy must make political compromises to give more power to the Shiite majority there. The most emphatic statement came last weekend from Defense Secretary Bob Gates, who said during a visit to Bahrain that its \"baby steps\" toward reform weren't enough and that the kingdom should step up its negotiations with the opposition.This American enthusiasm for change has been anathema to the conservative regimes of the Gulf, and on Monday they backed Bahrain's ruling Khalifa family with military force, marching about 2,000 troops up the causeway that links Bahrain to Saudi Arabia. A senior Saudi official told me the intervention was needed to protect Bahrain's financial district and other key facilities from violent demonstrations. He warned that radical, Iranian-backed leaders were becoming more active in the protests.\"We don't want Iran 14 miles off our coast, and that's not going to happen,\" said the Saudi official. U.S. officials counter that Iran, so far, has been only a minor player in the Bahrain protests and that Saudi military intervention could backfire by strengthening Iran's hand.Well, first of all, it always surprises and depresses me that people like this Saudi official can't see that creating some room for reform and dissent strengthens a society instead of weakening it. It's only when people feel completely shut out and oppressed that they turn to others. If they felt they had a stake in the society, they'd contribute to it.We had our own version of this debate in the US in the 1950s. American cold war liberals generally said: let socialist governments govern. As long as they're anti-communist - and usually, socialists were the biggest anti-communists of all, because they knew the bastards the best - let them take the helm if they win. With no basis on which to appeal to socialists for solidarity, communists will be that much more shut out.Conservative said horse manure, socialists are communists in sheeps' clothing. So, when in real life a socialist non-communist, Mossadegh, won an election in Iran, we at first let him govern (Truman and Acheson) but eventually and inevitably overthrew him (Eisenhower and Dulles). The results, you will all agree, have been absolutely wonderful to this day.But this is the way it is. Conservatives fear any unknown. They raise bogeymen (in Iran in 1953, communists; in Bahrain today, Iran) and scare people and it works nearly every time. But all this is not even the real reason I'm writing this post, so let's get to that, shall we?Farther down, Ignatius writes that Bahrain is \"the most important U.S.-Saudi disagreement in decades\" and unless resolved (and \"resolved\" of course means to the Saudis reverted to the status quo) will open up a major chasm:The Obama administration, in effect, is altering America's long-standing commitment to the status quo in the Gulf, believing that change in Bahrain \u2014 as in Egypt, Tunisia and Libya \u2014 is inevitable and desirable.The split reflects fundamental differences in strategic outlook. The Gulf regimes have come to mistrust Obama, seeing him as a weak president who will sacrifice traditional allies in his eagerness be \"on the right side of history.\" They liken Obama's rejection of Hosni Mubarak in Egypt to Jimmy Carter's 1979 abandonment of the shah of Iran. The crackup was predicted by a top UAE sheik in a February meeting with two visiting former U.S. officials. According to notes made during the conversation, the UAE official said: \"We and the Saudis will not accept a Shiite government in Bahrain. And if your president says to the Khalifas what he said to Mubarak [to leave office], it will cause a break in our relationship with the U.S.\" The UAE official warned that Gulf nations were \"looking East\" \u2014 to China, India and Turkey \u2014 for alternative security assistance.This got me wondering. America of course is called the world's policeman. What if, 25 years from now say, that were China?I'm asking out of genuine curiosity. I'm sure some of you will think of ramifications that elude me. We begin with the obvious downside that the US will no longer be the world's #1. Well, the neocons will thunder about that, but the rest of us might welcome some aspects of it. It would surely force Europe to spend more on military matters, if the US were no longer the feudal lord and protector, and America could spend less, maybe. It could also force the US and the EU to coordinate more.What it would mean for the people of the world could depend to some extent on what sort of society China itself is in the future. People who disparage American imperialism tend to forget that the US spends many billions on democracy and civil society and the promotion of women's rights and other things through quasi-governmental endowments and agencies. China has a big Africa investment fund, but I doubt much of it goes toward those sorts of things.Of course, the world's policeman also tends to get to be the world's banker, and that's the rub, really. What happens if China starts running global monetary policy? (Or is it already?)This very idea is going to provoke howls from the right, but I think that's alarmist twaddle. England once ran the world. Then it didn't. It's still a strong and wealthy and important country, and I'm sure some of you are prepared to point out ways in which it's better off without those obligations. Of course, I fear that in the end here, the Obama administration will capitulate to the Saudis and let the Bahrain regime have its way. For good or ill, the US will do whatever it has to do to prevent Saudi and the UAE from \"looking east.\" But it's an interesting thought experiment. Have at it.", "tags": ["Obama administration", "US foreign policy", "Saudi Arabia", "China", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "What if China became the world's policeman? | Michael Tomasy"},{"date": "2011-03-08T10:49:20Z", "country": "china", "content": "Beijing is considering whether to adopt a two-child policy within the next five years, ending the three-decade-old one-child rule, Chinese media have reported.Experts have mounted a renewed push for a relaxation of the strict family planning laws at an annual political meeting in the capital, warning that the country's population of 1.3 billion is becoming dangerously unbalanced, with too few adults of working age supporting too many of their elders.Officials, concerned that hinting at an end to the curbs could lead to a huge rise in the number of births, have quashed previous public discussion of a change.The one-child policy was adopted in 1979 after China's population surged \u2013 in part because Mao Zedong had suggested procreation was a patriotic duty.Some families \u2013 such as ethnic minority households or farmers whose first child is female \u2013 are already exempt. The government has been gradually relaxing regulations, for example by allowing two only children to each have two offspring.Experts in the field believe a uniform two-child rule would be fair, easy to enforce and would help to rebalance the population.Speaking at the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference \u2013 an advisory body meeting now in Beijing \u2013 Wang Yuqing said officials were studying proposals for a two-child policy and that he believed it should be introduced gradually.Wang, deputy director of the CPPCC's National Committee of Population, Resources and Environment, told the New Express Daily he believed urban couples whose first child was female might be allowed to have a second child from as early as 2015.Wang added that cities such as Beijing and Shanghai were already experiencing declining birth rates, in line with the international trend for people to have fewer children as living standards rise.Pilot projects for a two-child rule have also suggested it would not result in a population boom.The South China Morning Post said another official had confirmed the government was considering a new exemption for five provinces, which would allow couples to have a second child if one of the parents was an only child.Li Jichun, the deputy chairman of the Heilongjiang provincial CPPCC, said it had not been decided whether his province would be included.Official statistics from the government's population agency suggest the fertility rate \u2013 the average number of births per woman \u2013 is still around 1.8 in China, slightly lower than in the UK but far higher than in Japan or Italy.Others put the figure far lower, although it is not clear whether they account for births that should be registered but are not.Ji Baocheng, a member of the rubber-stamp legislature the National People's Congress, said there was a pressing need for a two-child rule because if the policy was not changed in time, the population structure would be severely imbalanced.According to state news agency Xinhua, over-60s make up more than an eighth of the population and will account for a third within three decades, with their numbers growing to 400 million as the number of younger people falls.Speaking to New Express Daily, Ji pointed to the burden faced by couples caring for two sets of parents.\"The responsibility will be overwhelming,\" said Ji, who is also president of Renmin University.Ye Yanfang, another CPPCC member, said nine out of 10 experts had been pressing for a relaxation of the policy for several years.But he added: \"[The authorities] are still worried that more people will drive up the unemployment rate in the future.\"Experts also argue that the one-child policy was never supposed to be a permanent measure, but was meant to bring down population growth to a manageable level.Tian Xueyuan, a leading member of the team that oversaw the policy's introduction, told the Jinghua Times: \"The purpose of the policy was to control birth rate for one generation.\"Additional research by Lin Yi", "tags": ["China", "Population", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China considers relaxing one-child policy"},{"date": "2011-02-14T18:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Although anticipated for some time, a symbolically important milestone has now been reached. China has officially overtaken Japan as the world's second-largest economy. Its rise has the potential to boost world growth, but also to increase tensions.China is still poor, so has the potential to grow quickly from a low level. But, as a developing country, it is likely to continue to focus on exports, though its latest economic strategy suggests it could begin to rebalance its economy towards domestic demand.If China is compared with the world's other largest economies, the differences are clear. It may be the second biggest in size, but ranks at 119 in terms of average incomes, according to World Bank data. Although Japan's $5.5tn economy is smaller than China's ($5.9tn), its average income is 10 times greater at $40,000. The US, at $14.9tn, is the largest economy and per capita incomes are similar to Japan's at $47,000, according to IMF data.China still practises export-led growth, a strategy that has served other developing countries well. Exports have accounted for 40-60% of Chinese GDP, while it is about 15% for the US and Japan. This has been a source of conflict, particularly as other developed economies seek to recover through exports.But China plans to rebalance its economy towards domestic demand, that is, shifting away from exports. It is in part a reaction to expected weaker imports from the west as consumers repay debt rather than spend at previous rates. The Chinese government also wants to avoid the protests at factory gates that occurred in 2009 when exports collapsed and workers were laid off en masse. China can make this shift because it has its own emerging middle class, which has achieved a reasonable level of income in the first three decades of the reform period.China has been talking about these reforms for a while, but notably changed its policy last autumn. The 12th Five Year Plan adopted then, which comes into effect next month, will be centred on developing the services sector, increasing urbanisation and improving incomes. Services comprise 40% of Chinese GDP, which is comparatively low. A number of services are non-tradeable, which helps to achieve the rebalancing aims. Also, just over half of the Chinese population is rural. The urbanisation drive will improve the livelihood of migrants by offering better employment opportunities and the chance to settle in cities. That will help to increase incomes and expand the consumer base. And improving incomes of urban workers is a key part of the strategy too. Wages may have been growing rapidly, but the share of income going to workers has declined, which partly explains the decline of consumption to 40% of GDP, which is lower than in other major economies.The overall aim, an ambitious one, is to sustain the next 30 years of growth. China is wary of the so-called \"middle-income country trap\" under which few countries join the ranks of the rich because growth slows in the absence of technological and productivity improvements. This means China will want to continue to integrate with the global economy so its firms can learn while competing on the world stage. But it also means it needs to reform its domestic economy to improve conditions for private firms and remove impediments in the labour market. This is crucial to sustain economic growth and help maintain social stability.These policy shifts suggest China has perhaps begun to realise it can be a major trader even when its economy is largely driven by its own consumers and firms, as is the case in the US and Japan. Rebalancing away from exports could also help to alleviate tensions with its trading partners. But other countries will want to see the 12th Five Year Plan earnestly implemented \u2013 sooner rather than later \u2013 in the world's now number two economy.", "tags": ["China", "Global economy", "World news", "Business", "Economics", "Japan", "US economy", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China looks for inner richness | Linda Yueh"},{"date": "2011-02-08T15:51:09Z", "country": "china", "content": "Here comes the bride, all dressed in ... plastic. At least she might be if you purchase one of the increasing number of commemorative toys being produced to cash in on the marriage of Prince William and Kate Middleton in April 2011.Never usually ones to miss out on a money-making opportunity, toy manufacturers are launching royal wedding-themed playthings aimed at children (who probably have no idea who Willliam and Kate are) and their parents in the hope that Wills and Kate fever will add to a toy market worth around \u00a32.7bn a year in the UK alone.The most talked about toy is the \u00a315 Happyland Royal Wedding Set, available to pre-order from the Early Learning Centre for delivery in March, though online customers have already begun receiving their sets. \"Prince William and Kate sit in a gold trimmed horse-drawn carriage while The Queen, Prince Phillip and their favourite corgi are protected by a Royal Cavalry soldier in full uniform and a foot soldier wearing a smart red jacket and bearskin helmet,\" the marketing blurb informs us.This is, admittedly, a cute set of figurines \u2013 albeit one featuring some interesting design choices. Prince Phillip seems to be sporting a reasonably thick head of hair, while William's equally follicly-challenged bonce is tastefully covered by a military cap. The happy couple have a permanently fixed wave, while the horses appear to be the same size as the 3\" human characters and the corgi more closely resembles a collie dog. But all of them have an unsettling blank stare, as though the happy royals have accidentally been crossed with a Stepford Wives toy range.Another cracker is the forthcoming Celebration Wedding Set from Sylvanian Families, a bizzare mixture of the real world and the fantasy realm of Sylvania \u2013 heavily populated by rabbits and other cute animals. William & Catherine Balmoral are both bunnies, while Louise and Amelia Periwinkle are rabbit bridesmaids and James Periwinkle a perky-looking rabbit page boy. Standing out starkly from the bucks and does is Reverend Kelvin Waters, who is possibly a beaver. Hours of endless fun for \u00a324.99.Corgi cars has also got in on the act, producing a \u00a39.99 1:36 scale navy blue Austin Mini \u2013 a limited edition celebration of \"all things British\", sporting an SW1 William & Kate London road sign on the side and a Union Jack roof. The toy car manufacturer has also produced a three-piece commemorative die cast set (featuring a Mini, London bus and a van) for \u00a324.99 and a 24 carat gold-plated commemorative die cast Model T Ford van (\u00a329.99). The vans sport a fetching portrait of Wills and Kate on the side, lest you forget who they are while your children are ramming them into your floorboards.Many readers will find the toys expensive, with prices not too dissimilar to items in the official range of china (which includes handmade cups for \u00a335 a pop and pill boxes at \u00a325), and Aynsley's royal wedding collection (coasters at \u00a39.95, Crown bells at \u00a319.95). But, of course, you cannot put a price on taste.Other items available across the web include commemorative jigsaws and teddy bears. But what I'd really like to see is a Star Wars-themed wedding set, with Prince Phillip as Darth Vader and The Queen as Yoda, Fergie as Mon Mothma and princesses Eugenie and Beatrice as Ewoks. Prince Edward and the Countess of Wessex could be C3PO and R2-D2 respectively, while at a push Prince Charles and Camilla could be Luke Skywalker's guardians Owen and Beru Lars. William and Kate would, of course, be Han Solo and Princess Leia, while Prince Harry would make a fine Jar Jar Binks.Or a Lord of the Rings wedding figurine set, featuring Prince William as Aragorn and Kate as Arwen and ... you get the idea. How else could toy manufacturers cash-in on the forthcoming nuptials? What other mergers of the film world and the royal family would you like to see immortalised in plastic? Do the toys offer genuine opportunities for fun and games, or are they simply soulless cash-ins designed to part parents from their cash?", "tags": ["Royal wedding", "Prince William", "Monarchy", "UK news", "The Duchess of Cambridge", "Toys", "Money", "Consumer affairs"], "title": "William & Kate - made in China"},{"date": "2011-01-14T11:42:31Z", "country": "china", "content": "China took a step towards a smog-free future today with the announcement of a wide new set of pollution controls.For the first time, the Ministry of Environmental Protection added ammonia nitrogen and nitrogen oxide to its list of reduction targets.As part of efforts to cut these emissions by 1.5% this year, the ministry said greater efforts will be made to cut vehicles' exhausts and to tackle the worst polluting industries, such as paper-making, textiles and chemical plants.In a website report, environmental minister Zhou Shengxian said the government will increase investment in waste-treatment plants and tighten standards for approval of construction projects.Few details were provided, but the announcement comes ahead of China's new five-year economic plan, which is expected to ramp up environmental protection.In the past two weeks, the government has also unveiled new measures to improve environmental monitoring and make the information quickly and widely available.The nitrogen compounds - along with new chemical goals - will be added to existing goals aimed to lower sulphur dioxide (which causes acid rain) and chemical oxygen demand (a measure of water contamination).It was only as recently as 2005 that bureaucrats first introduced numerical environmental targets in the state plan. Relatively modest goals were set to reduce sulphur dioxide and chemical oxygen demand.Even though these were achieved ahead of time, the gains were apparent in the statistics rather than the sky. Beijing and other cities remain shrouded in smog for much of the year.Having proved that success is possible, analysts believe bureaucrats now have the confidence to add other tougher targets that will make an evident impact.\"What they are trying to do this time is really push the ball forward to do enough to actually make a visible difference,\" said Deborah Seligsohn of the World Resources Institute. \"You are seeing a transition from showing effect to showing results.\"However critics say that if China wants to completely eradicate smog, it should also set reduction targets for persistent organic compounds, ozone and particulate matter.", "tags": ["Pollution", "Water", "Environment", "China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China sets new pollution controls"},{"date": "2011-01-12T18:06:09Z", "country": "china", "content": "China indicated that it planned to buy Spanish bonds at a crucial auction tomorrow, after purchasing Portuguese debt today, bringing much-needed investors' confidence to the two troubled countries.\"These are delicate times and we take a positive role,\" Yi Gang, deputy governor of the People's Bank of China, told the Guardian today. \"We have been and are a consistent buyer and we have a long-term view of our investments in Europe.\"In a closely watched sale of \u20ac599m (\u00a3497m) of sovereign bonds, Portugal's 10-year borrowing costs dipped to 6.7%, down from 6.8% at a previous auction \u2013 an about-turn on recent increases in debt-funding costs.Spain is planning to raise funds tomorrow, hoping to cut its practically unsustainable borrowing costs as well. The two Iberian countries are battling investors, who are betting they will follow Greece and Ireland into being bailed out by the European Union and the International Monetary Fund \u2013 and giving up a measure of fiscal independence.China, which already controls 13% of Spanish sovereign debt, said it was in its own interests to support the EU in times of trouble as the economic bloc is China's top trading partner. \"We will do our best to be a stabiliser in this process and support further integration of the EU,\" Yi said at a press conference in London, where a Chinese delegation has ended a European tour, following visits to Spain and Germany.The Chinese support, together with stronger defence of the euro from Brussels, sent stock markets rallying across Europe. It also lowered the cost of protecting \u20ac10m of Portuguese debt against default to \u20ac513,000, from \u20ac540,000 today, according to data from Markit. Spain's debt insurance costs also fell to \u20ac336,000, from \u20ac349,000.Some investors remained sceptical about prospects for economic growth in ailing southern Europe. Andr\u00e9 de Klerk, head of risk management at Moneycorp, said: \"The euro still remains weak against sterling and, with Germany quick to remind the EU of the ongoing nature of the European debt crisis, investors will remain nervous about the situation in Portugal over the coming months.\"", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Business", "European monetary union", "China", "World news", "Economics", "Global economy", "Financial sector", "Financial crisis", "Global recession", "Bonds", "Asia Pacific", "Europe"], "title": "'Positive' China buys Spanish bonds"},{"date": "2011-01-03T18:31:46Z", "country": "china", "content": "China's ambitions to lead the world in nuclear power were boosted today by reports that its scientists had mastered a key technique in the reprocessing of spent uranium.State media claimed the technology overcame a supply bottleneck and ensured China would have sufficient nuclear fuel for at least 3,000 years.The breakthrough would be a boon to the domestic industry, which is in the early stages of what looks likely to be the most spectacular burst of reactor-building in world history.Due to surging demand for energy and growing concerns about pollution, China's nuclear-power generating capacity is projected to increase up to tenfold in the next 10 years. By 2030 China could be on course to overtake the US as the world's leading atomic energy producer.The technology, developed and tested at the number 404 factory of the China National Nuclear Corporation, situated in the Gobi desert, enables recycling of irradiated fuel, according to China Central Television. How this differs from existing reprocessing methods in other countries is unclear, but the state broadcaster said that with this technique a kilo of uranium could produce close to 60 times more power than was now possible in China.If proven this method would extend the \"usage life\" of the 171,400 tonnes of the country's known uranium deposits, which previously were forecast to last less than 70 years.Reprocessing can also provide fissile material for weapons, though details have not yet been disclosed about the potential impact on China's nuclear arsenal.China first tested an atomic bomb in 1964, but it was slow to adopt nuclear power because of the cheapness and abundance of domestic coal, and the government was reluctant to depend on expensive foreign technology and uranium imports. But in recent years growing wealth and shifting environmental priorities have prompted a change.According to the International Atomic Energy Agency, China now has 13 operating reactors and 26 more facilities under construction.China National Nuclear Corporation said last year it planned to invest 800bn yuan (\u00a378bn) in the industry by 2020. China has already been replicating the technology of its foreign suppliers and is moving to design its own reactors and reprocessing plants. The next step is construction and overseas sales.", "tags": ["China", "Nuclear power", "Energy", "Environment", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China claims new nuclear technology"},{"date": "2011-03-22T14:00:18Z", "country": "china", "content": "Hsueh Sheng Wang was 13 when he arrived in France. Since then he has prospered, with business interests in food, clothing and property. A model for the Chinese community, he is in the process of buying part of the port at Le Havre in Normandy. Wang, 45, has plans for his company, Eurasia, to renovate dock warehouses covering 15 hectares and turn them into an import-export centre trading between France and China, a scheme on a par with the huge logistics platform that will soon be opening at Piraeus in Greece.As he likes France, he wants to invest here, Wang says. He takes great care when he speaks French, holding back his naturally quick tongue, and says he reads Le Monde and Le Figaro, unlike most of his compatriots, who prefer Chinese papers.He signed a preliminary purchase agreement in Le Havre last December and plans to invest $31m in the project. Work should start in September. The scheme is part of a pattern unfolding worldwide. \"The Chinese want to do the distribution and marketing themselves,\" says Herv\u00e9 Corn\u00e8de, the sales manager at the port.The rundown warehouses Wang is taking over are ideally placed. With a wharf on one side, they are close to a motorway junction and will be soon be accessible to rail freight. The plan is to import cheap Chinese products and export French luxury goods: \"Wine, perfume, haute couture, leather goods and so on.\" Wang has been working on the project for two years and there are drawings all over the big table in his gloomy Paris office.He is proud to be here, conscious that for many Chinese immigrants in France he is an inspiration, particularly for people from his home town of Wenzhou, 400km south of Shanghai. Many of them run small businesses, typically Chinese restaurants recently converted to sushi bars, bars or wholesale clothing stores.That is how Wang started, just one of countless hardworking folk who landed here in the 1970s, often undocumented, following in the footsteps of the Vietnamese boat people. He, too, laboured day and night with his family to pay off the loans obtained from his fellows with only his good name as collateral. He, too, was determined to make good.The progress of the Wang family was typical. Wang senior arrived first in 1973 and started work repairing furniture in Paris, his son explains. His mother and brother followed in 1976. \"I was the last to arrive, in 1978,\" he adds. He was 13 at the time. After two years' apprenticeship he joined the rest of the family working in a restaurant managed by his father in Cr\u00e9teil, outside Paris.In the 1980s, the family gave up the restaurant and switched to running a food shop. Then they moved north, to Lille, investing in the garment industry, in which they achieved spectacular growth. They started importing goods and by the mid-1990s were supplying leading chains such as Kiabi, Auchan, Pimkie and Foir'Fouille.Having moved back to the Paris area and established a position as one of the biggest wholesalers in Aubervilliers, the Wangs started acquiring commercial premises. They would buy or rent properties, then divide them up and sublet them to smaller wholesalers, mostly Chinese. A handful of Chinese immigrants adopted more or less the same business model, particularly around Aubervilliers, which is one of the biggest trading centres for Chinese goods in Europe. However, Wang's business is now large enough \u2013 turning over $22m in 2010 \u2013 for him to operate outside these traditional networks.Many think that his success is partly due to his love of France and an openness unusual in a businessman with his background. The Wang style also contributes to his success with the Chinese community in France. \"He has all the characteristics of a Chinese but he is not like the others,\" says an enthusiastic Tamara Lui, a writer based in Paris working for the Sing Tao [Hong Kong] daily. \"In a way we are all looking for the Wang in ourselves,\" she adds, referring to the anxiety of many Franco-Chinese, torn between their longing for success and integration and their reluctance to lose their original culture, particularly their language.However, many of his competitors are not so happy about his attitude. Although he devotes time to many Chinese organisations, as is generally expected of a man in his position, he has never accepted any form of public responsibility. \"No time,\" he says. But in the eyes of the Chinese community a man should never forget that success is also achieved through collective solidarity.For example, Wang is not a favourite with the network surrounding the former French prime minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin, which exerts a certain influence on Franco-Chinese relations. \"He is a Frenchified Chinese,\" says Alain Destrem, the conservative MP for the 15th arrondissement of Paris and head of the Club Europe-Chine Co-op\u00e9ration (ECC). \"He has lost his community spirit.\"It turns out that the ECC supports one of Wang's long-standing rivals, Wu Zhong, a businessman with a very similar career, who has been in France since 1994. Zhong is 42, almost the same age, and boasts the same initial backer, Li Yuping, a Chinese tycoon who still owns a symbolic share in Wang's company. Zhong's French is a little hesitant and his overall approach is more conventional, which is apparently more to Destrem's liking.According to Ling Lenzi, 42, one of Wang's closest business acquaintances, his distrust of the Wenzhouese community may be his only serious shortcoming. Even now he still manages his little empire with a workforce of fewer than 20 people, and he alone stands as guarantee for all his acquisitions. But she is sure of at least one key achievement: Wang is \"no longer just a Chinese shopkeeper\".This story originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Business", "China", "France", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Born in China, made in France"},{"date": "2011-03-16T13:11:07Z", "country": "china", "content": "David Ignatius has an interesting column in The Washington Post this morning explaining why Bahrain might be the issue that has the most dramatic impact on the future of US foreign policy. Why Bahrain? Because Saudi Arabia cares a great deal about what happens there, and Saudi Arabia is rather important. Ignatius:U.S. officials have been arguing that Bahrain's Sunni monarchy must make political compromises to give more power to the Shiite majority there. The most emphatic statement came last weekend from Defense Secretary Bob Gates, who said during a visit to Bahrain that its \"baby steps\" toward reform weren't enough and that the kingdom should step up its negotiations with the opposition.This American enthusiasm for change has been anathema to the conservative regimes of the Gulf, and on Monday they backed Bahrain's ruling Khalifa family with military force, marching about 2,000 troops up the causeway that links Bahrain to Saudi Arabia. A senior Saudi official told me the intervention was needed to protect Bahrain's financial district and other key facilities from violent demonstrations. He warned that radical, Iranian-backed leaders were becoming more active in the protests.\"We don't want Iran 14 miles off our coast, and that's not going to happen,\" said the Saudi official. U.S. officials counter that Iran, so far, has been only a minor player in the Bahrain protests and that Saudi military intervention could backfire by strengthening Iran's hand.Well, first of all, it always surprises and depresses me that people like this Saudi official can't see that creating some room for reform and dissent strengthens a society instead of weakening it. It's only when people feel completely shut out and oppressed that they turn to others. If they felt they had a stake in the society, they'd contribute to it.We had our own version of this debate in the US in the 1950s. American cold war liberals generally said: let socialist governments govern. As long as they're anti-communist - and usually, socialists were the biggest anti-communists of all, because they knew the bastards the best - let them take the helm if they win. With no basis on which to appeal to socialists for solidarity, communists will be that much more shut out.Conservative said horse manure, socialists are communists in sheeps' clothing. So, when in real life a socialist non-communist, Mossadegh, won an election in Iran, we at first let him govern (Truman and Acheson) but eventually and inevitably overthrew him (Eisenhower and Dulles). The results, you will all agree, have been absolutely wonderful to this day.But this is the way it is. Conservatives fear any unknown. They raise bogeymen (in Iran in 1953, communists; in Bahrain today, Iran) and scare people and it works nearly every time. But all this is not even the real reason I'm writing this post, so let's get to that, shall we?Farther down, Ignatius writes that Bahrain is \"the most important U.S.-Saudi disagreement in decades\" and unless resolved (and \"resolved\" of course means to the Saudis reverted to the status quo) will open up a major chasm:The Obama administration, in effect, is altering America's long-standing commitment to the status quo in the Gulf, believing that change in Bahrain \u2014 as in Egypt, Tunisia and Libya \u2014 is inevitable and desirable.The split reflects fundamental differences in strategic outlook. The Gulf regimes have come to mistrust Obama, seeing him as a weak president who will sacrifice traditional allies in his eagerness be \"on the right side of history.\" They liken Obama's rejection of Hosni Mubarak in Egypt to Jimmy Carter's 1979 abandonment of the shah of Iran. The crackup was predicted by a top UAE sheik in a February meeting with two visiting former U.S. officials. According to notes made during the conversation, the UAE official said: \"We and the Saudis will not accept a Shiite government in Bahrain. And if your president says to the Khalifas what he said to Mubarak [to leave office], it will cause a break in our relationship with the U.S.\" The UAE official warned that Gulf nations were \"looking East\" \u2014 to China, India and Turkey \u2014 for alternative security assistance.This got me wondering. America of course is called the world's policeman. What if, 25 years from now say, that were China?I'm asking out of genuine curiosity. I'm sure some of you will think of ramifications that elude me. We begin with the obvious downside that the US will no longer be the world's #1. Well, the neocons will thunder about that, but the rest of us might welcome some aspects of it. It would surely force Europe to spend more on military matters, if the US were no longer the feudal lord and protector, and America could spend less, maybe. It could also force the US and the EU to coordinate more.What it would mean for the people of the world could depend to some extent on what sort of society China itself is in the future. People who disparage American imperialism tend to forget that the US spends many billions on democracy and civil society and the promotion of women's rights and other things through quasi-governmental endowments and agencies. China has a big Africa investment fund, but I doubt much of it goes toward those sorts of things.Of course, the world's policeman also tends to get to be the world's banker, and that's the rub, really. What happens if China starts running global monetary policy? (Or is it already?)This very idea is going to provoke howls from the right, but I think that's alarmist twaddle. England once ran the world. Then it didn't. It's still a strong and wealthy and important country, and I'm sure some of you are prepared to point out ways in which it's better off without those obligations. Of course, I fear that in the end here, the Obama administration will capitulate to the Saudis and let the Bahrain regime have its way. For good or ill, the US will do whatever it has to do to prevent Saudi and the UAE from \"looking east.\" But it's an interesting thought experiment. Have at it.", "tags": ["Obama administration", "US foreign policy", "Saudi Arabia", "China", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "What if China became the world's policeman? | Michael Tomasy"},{"date": "2011-03-08T10:49:20Z", "country": "china", "content": "Beijing is considering whether to adopt a two-child policy within the next five years, ending the three-decade-old one-child rule, Chinese media have reported.Experts have mounted a renewed push for a relaxation of the strict family planning laws at an annual political meeting in the capital, warning that the country's population of 1.3 billion is becoming dangerously unbalanced, with too few adults of working age supporting too many of their elders.Officials, concerned that hinting at an end to the curbs could lead to a huge rise in the number of births, have quashed previous public discussion of a change.The one-child policy was adopted in 1979 after China's population surged \u2013 in part because Mao Zedong had suggested procreation was a patriotic duty.Some families \u2013 such as ethnic minority households or farmers whose first child is female \u2013 are already exempt. The government has been gradually relaxing regulations, for example by allowing two only children to each have two offspring.Experts in the field believe a uniform two-child rule would be fair, easy to enforce and would help to rebalance the population.Speaking at the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference \u2013 an advisory body meeting now in Beijing \u2013 Wang Yuqing said officials were studying proposals for a two-child policy and that he believed it should be introduced gradually.Wang, deputy director of the CPPCC's National Committee of Population, Resources and Environment, told the New Express Daily he believed urban couples whose first child was female might be allowed to have a second child from as early as 2015.Wang added that cities such as Beijing and Shanghai were already experiencing declining birth rates, in line with the international trend for people to have fewer children as living standards rise.Pilot projects for a two-child rule have also suggested it would not result in a population boom.The South China Morning Post said another official had confirmed the government was considering a new exemption for five provinces, which would allow couples to have a second child if one of the parents was an only child.Li Jichun, the deputy chairman of the Heilongjiang provincial CPPCC, said it had not been decided whether his province would be included.Official statistics from the government's population agency suggest the fertility rate \u2013 the average number of births per woman \u2013 is still around 1.8 in China, slightly lower than in the UK but far higher than in Japan or Italy.Others put the figure far lower, although it is not clear whether they account for births that should be registered but are not.Ji Baocheng, a member of the rubber-stamp legislature the National People's Congress, said there was a pressing need for a two-child rule because if the policy was not changed in time, the population structure would be severely imbalanced.According to state news agency Xinhua, over-60s make up more than an eighth of the population and will account for a third within three decades, with their numbers growing to 400 million as the number of younger people falls.Speaking to New Express Daily, Ji pointed to the burden faced by couples caring for two sets of parents.\"The responsibility will be overwhelming,\" said Ji, who is also president of Renmin University.Ye Yanfang, another CPPCC member, said nine out of 10 experts had been pressing for a relaxation of the policy for several years.But he added: \"[The authorities] are still worried that more people will drive up the unemployment rate in the future.\"Experts also argue that the one-child policy was never supposed to be a permanent measure, but was meant to bring down population growth to a manageable level.Tian Xueyuan, a leading member of the team that oversaw the policy's introduction, told the Jinghua Times: \"The purpose of the policy was to control birth rate for one generation.\"Additional research by Lin Yi", "tags": ["China", "Population", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China considers relaxing one-child policy"},{"date": "2011-03-05T00:01:52Z", "country": "china", "content": "You won't find the Paiza Mansions on TripAdvisor. You can't even book the world's plushest hotel \u2013 it chooses you. The 6,000 sq ft suites (the size of five semi-detached houses) are reached by private elevator, and come with two butlers and a masseur. Yet it costs nothing to stay there. The surprisingly tasteful suites (despite the 60in end-of-bathtub TVs) are completely free. There's just the small matter of a HK$10-15m (\u00a3800,000-\u00a31.2m) that invitation-only guests are required to spend downstairs at the casino.The Paiza Club and Mansions are part of the Macau Venetian, the world's largest casino, and the fifth biggest building on the planet. And every time you buy something with a Made in China label, much of the money eventually ends up here.Las Vegas is puny in comparison. Chinese punters bet around \u00a370bn on Macau's baize tables (they prefer baccarat) last month alone. This year it could reach \u00a31tn, an almost unimaginably colossal sum. Think of all the cash issued from all the UK's ATMs last year. Then multiply it by five.Macau's casinos \u2013 the Venetian, MGM Grand, Wynn, Sands, Lisboa, and many, many more \u2013 skim around 2.5% from punters, giving them net revenues in February alone of HK$19.9bn (\u00a31.6bn). The enormous Galaxy, Hilton, Sheraton and Shangri-la hotels and casinos are still under construction on Macau's new strip, yet the city is already raking in five times more money than Vegas. \"Macau is not the Las Vegas of the East \u2013 Las Vegas is the Macau of the West,\" says veteran casino expert Justin Casey of consultants APG. Yet seven years ago there was just one casino on the peninsula.It's lunchtime on a Tuesday in February, and the skies above the former Portuguese colony are a smoggy grey. The sea is a dirty brown, carrying the effluent of the thousands of factories further up the Pearl River, the world's greatest concentration of industry.But already the Venetian is half-full with visitors streaming over the border with mainland China. The casino, three times the size of its sister complex in Vegas, cost \u00a32bn to build, and as we walk through acres of baccarat tables, the hospitality manager (he looks after 3,000 bedrooms) tells me the floorspace could accommodate 100 jumbo jets. By the end of the day \u2013 a quiet one for the complex \u2013 more than 65,000 punters have come through the doors.When Deng Xiaoping began the post-Mao economic reforms in China, he didn't anticipate this. The country's industrial revolution has spawned literally millions of millionaires. While the factory workers are bussed into the smoke-filled Lisboa (think Brighton Pier, if it stretched to France), the factory owners are helicoptered into the VIP suites. 70% of the money wagered on Macau's tables comes from the wallets of the Chinese super-rich.But Chinese law forbids its citizens from taking more than 20,000 renminbi (\u00a31,800) over the border. So Macau's billions rest on a very Chinese solution to capital controls.On the mainland, wealthy punters deposit their money in what are called \"junkets,\" organisations widely believed to be controlled by triad gangs.Once in Macau, the junkets dispense the money back to individuals, and extend credit, often two to three times the amount originally deposited with them. They bring the VIPs to the casinos, and are paid huge commissions. Back on the mainland, punters who fail to pay up face menacing debt collectors.In each major casino, the junkets have lavish gaming rooms on private floors reserved solely for their VIP punters, prepared to buy a bare minimum of \u00a320,000 in gaming chips.The public are not just roped off, few would even know of the existence of the private rooms. A small army of security guards keeps the public far from view, and hundreds of CCTV cameras observe every move. But Guardian Money obtained access to several of the rooms. In the first \u2013 and this was a Tuesday afternoon \u2013 were around 20 VIPs, mostly male. Every single bet was for a minimum of \u00a31,600. In the evening it would rise to \u00a33,200. A second room was empty. A third junket room had around 40 players, again playing at \u00a31,600 a hand. The thickly-carpeted corridor, the width of a big SUV, stretched hundreds of feet, leading to scores more VIP rooms.Back on the smoke-filled \"mass market\" floors, the minimum bets are typically \u00a320\u2013 significantly higher than Vegas. But there are no free cocktails or slot machines. There aren't even smiling faces. Gambling here is a serious business.Why China's industrious workers, the world's greatest savers, will squander it all on baccarat remains a mystery even to China experts. \"The Chinese believe in luck. They are willing to gamble a big fraction of their net worth,\" says gaming analyst Huei Suen Ng of Credit Lyonnais Securities Asia. But she acknowledges that this doesn't quite explain what is going on. \"Maybe it's just our culture, maybe it's in our genes,\" she says.The other rather less acknowledged factor is money-laundering. The junkets take in Chinese renminbi (which cannot be converted on the world's money exchanges) while the casinos can pay out in dollars. Some critics believe Macau is a gigantic operation for secreting money away from the eyes of the Chinese state. Suitloads of dollars take the short hop from Macau to Hong Kong, much of it pouring into the city's white-hot property market. Even bigger sums are believed to head into offshore tax havens.The authorities, for now at least, turn a blind eye. The casinos are a huge cash cow for the Chinese state, too, which levies tax at 39%. If Macau gets out of hand, Beijing can turn it into a desert overnight by refusing internal visas to mainland Chinese. But the casino operators think that unlikely \u2013 as the money might instead switch to Singapore, away from Chinese control, where two new mega-casinos are already close to matching the whole of Vegas in takings.Visitors from America or Europe won't be flocking to Macau's polluted shores, and average room rates \u2013 close to \u00a3160 a night \u2013 would in any case deter them. It is a uniquely Chinese place, with hangar-like casinos encircled by Gucci and Louis Vuitton shops. Vegas-style entertainment is thin on the ground, swimming pools are unused, and nightclubs rare. The average Chinese visitor spends 1.6 days in Macau, and uses the time to gamble non-stop. Prostitution is legal, though pimping is not. The daily parade of sex workers in a mall below the Lisboa dubbed \"the Race Track\" draws organised tour groups with cameras, rather than many real punters.The Venetian's gondoliers in the miles of fake canals sing Volare, and our chanteuse had even sung in the Sydney Opera House, but makes better money in Macau. A water fountain show in front of the five-star Wynn evokes Vegas, but the backdrop of Chinese casino architecture is so extraordinarily vulgar it makes Vegas look almost charming.But Brits can make money from the tables of Macau without going anywhere near China. Shares in casino operators are among the most popular investments in many emerging market and China funds \u2013 though ethical investors may wish to steer clear of what one of my fellow journalists called the new Sodom and Gomorrah.Macau's casinos are the world's most profitable \u2013 some repay billion-pound construction costs within a year. London-based Neptune Investment Management, which manages more than \u00a3100m in its China fund on behalf of British investors, has put around 8% of the fund into shares in Sands, which owns the Venetian, and Wynn.Back in the Paiza \u2013 the word is taken from a Marco Polo story \u2013 the suites are strangely quiet despite the hotel's insistence that occupancy rates are 90% or more.Insiders explain what's happening: VIPs check into the multimillion-pound suites then head straight to the private tables. \"Over 48 hours, they will gamble for as much as 46 hours. The suites are used just as washrooms, really.\"Patrick Collinson was a guest of Neptune Investment Management in Hong Kong and Macau", "tags": ["Consumer affairs", "Money", "Macau holidays", "China holidays", "Asia", "Travel", "China", "World news", "Gambling", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Macau: where China likes to spend it"},{"date": "2011-06-30T15:58:18Z", "country": "china", "content": "Google's new social network service, Google+, has apparently been blocked in China within a day of being launched.The company also halted new signups after a torrid first 24 hours in which \"insane\" demand to join it forced the company to close it to new members briefly.According to the site Great Firewall of China, which uses a server based in China to try to access external web locations, Google users inside China are unable to access any location within google.com, which includes the URL for Google+, at plus.google.com.Another access-checking service, Just Ping, also reports that the plus.google.com URL is inaccessible within China.The blocking by the Chinese government, using its \"great firewall\" \u2013 a censorship system which blocks a huge number of websites outside the Chinese borders on the basis that they contain \"destabilising\" content such as pornography or unsuitable views \u2013 matches that applied to other western social networks, including Facebook and Twitter. By contrast, the Guardian's site is accessible in many parts of China.)Google's main URL, google.com, has been blocked inside China since the company decided to withdraw from the mainland in 2010 in protest at what it saw as government-inspired hacking.According to the Great Firewall site, its Chinese version, google.cn, is also blocked while that of China-sanctioned Baidu is not.Google+ is being seen as Google's answer to Facebook, which boasts almost 700m users \u2013 although it is effectively banned inside China, where only people who use encrypted connections to the outside world are able to join it.Vic Gundotra, one of the company's top engineers who watched the development closely, posted on Google+ early on Thursday morning (at roughly 8.45pm on Wednesday night in Google's Pacific timezone) that \"we've shut down the invite mechanism for the night. Insane demand. We need to do this carefully, and in a controlled way. Thank you for all of your interest!\"Invites were opened up again on Thursday afternoon, though only on a limited basis.There are no details yet on how many people have joined the service.China's government on Friday celebrates an important anniversary, of 90 years since the founding of the Communist party of China, and it has instituted a number of crackdowns on internet use and heightened censorship.Earlier this week Google revealed that it receives a steady stream of requests for private data from developed countries \u2014 but that it had had no content removal requests from the Chinese government in the second half of 2010. However it received 90 requests from China-controlled Hong Kong for user data, an increase of 80% from the same period in 2009; it acquiesced to 53 of them, a 59% compliance rate.", "tags": ["Google", "Technology", "Digital media", "Media", "Social networking", "Blogging", "China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Google+ 'blocked in China'"},{"date": "2011-06-30T15:58:18Z", "country": "china", "content": "Google's new social network service, Google+, has apparently been blocked in China within a day of being launched.The company also halted new signups after a torrid first 24 hours in which \"insane\" demand to join it forced the company to close it to new members briefly.According to the site Great Firewall of China, which uses a server based in China to try to access external web locations, Google users inside China are unable to access any location within google.com, which includes the URL for Google+, at plus.google.com.Another access-checking service, Just Ping, also reports that the plus.google.com URL is inaccessible within China.The blocking by the Chinese government, using its \"great firewall\" \u2013 a censorship system which blocks a huge number of websites outside the Chinese borders on the basis that they contain \"destabilising\" content such as pornography or unsuitable views \u2013 matches that applied to other western social networks, including Facebook and Twitter. By contrast, the Guardian's site is accessible in many parts of China.)Google's main URL, google.com, has been blocked inside China since the company decided to withdraw from the mainland in 2010 in protest at what it saw as government-inspired hacking.According to the Great Firewall site, its Chinese version, google.cn, is also blocked while that of China-sanctioned Baidu is not.Google+ is being seen as Google's answer to Facebook, which boasts almost 700m users \u2013 although it is effectively banned inside China, where only people who use encrypted connections to the outside world are able to join it.Vic Gundotra, one of the company's top engineers who watched the development closely, posted on Google+ early on Thursday morning (at roughly 8.45pm on Wednesday night in Google's Pacific timezone) that \"we've shut down the invite mechanism for the night. Insane demand. We need to do this carefully, and in a controlled way. Thank you for all of your interest!\"Invites were opened up again on Thursday afternoon, though only on a limited basis.There are no details yet on how many people have joined the service.China's government on Friday celebrates an important anniversary, of 90 years since the founding of the Communist party of China, and it has instituted a number of crackdowns on internet use and heightened censorship.Earlier this week Google revealed that it receives a steady stream of requests for private data from developed countries \u2014 but that it had had no content removal requests from the Chinese government in the second half of 2010. However it received 90 requests from China-controlled Hong Kong for user data, an increase of 80% from the same period in 2009; it acquiesced to 53 of them, a 59% compliance rate.", "tags": ["Google", "Technology", "Digital media", "Media", "Social networking", "Blogging", "China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Google+ 'blocked in China'"},{"date": "2011-05-09T09:36:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Last month's coup, with Claire Armitstead blasting off to Russia in pursuit of Yuri Gagarin, spread a little stardust over our collection of recommendations, with Dominic H hymning the \"sharp, beautful, unforgettable, prose\" of Venedikt Yerofeev's Brezhnev-era Inferno, Moscow Stations, GraceAndreacchi saluting Pechorin in Mikhail Lermontov's A Hero of Our Time as \"the Russian anti-hero at his Byronic best\" and, of course, chak's reminder of a work I'm sure we're all familiar with, Alexander Plotkin's, erm, \u0437\u0430\u043f\u0440\u0435\u0442\u043d\u044b\u0439 \u043f\u043b\u043e\u0434.But this month we're taking the World literature tour back to its roots, calling up the spirit of Diego's original invention and returning to the democratic principles on which it was first established by heading to ... China. The irony of heading to the world's mightiest totalitarian regime, which has kept a tight lid on dissent since 1989's Tiananmen Square protests, on the basis of a vote, is acute. At the opening of the Beijing Olympic Games in 2008, International Pen identified 42 writers and journalists imprisoned by the regime, a situation which appears only to have worsened since, with 10 pages of International Pen's 2010 caselist taken up with Chinese writers and recent uprisings across the Arab world prompting a new crackdown.All the more reason to celebrate both great writers from the past and those contemporary authors who are bravely creating fine work despite the commercial and political difficulties which surround them. Using the boxes below, we can assemble a list of fiction, non-fiction, poems and plays \u2013 whether written by Chinese authors or those looking at the Middle Kingdom from the outside \u2013 which can paint a portrait of life in China beyond the reach of any censor's black marker.I'm off to recommend the excellent Zhu Wen, as well as Bi Feiyu's brutal novella Moon Opera, filling in the country \u2013 that's China \u2013 the title, the author, the translator and some indication of why they're both so great in the boxes of power down below. But while you're racking your brains over whether to suggest Li Bai or Wang Wei, remember to keep an eye on the future. After China, where next? Remember to vote for the country of your choice in the comments below. The destination of the World literature is in your hands.", "tags": ["Fiction", "Books", "Poetry"], "title": "World literature tour: China"},{"date": "2011-06-30T15:58:18Z", "country": "china", "content": "Google's new social network service, Google+, has apparently been blocked in China within a day of being launched.The company also halted new signups after a torrid first 24 hours in which \"insane\" demand to join it forced the company to close it to new members briefly.According to the site Great Firewall of China, which uses a server based in China to try to access external web locations, Google users inside China are unable to access any location within google.com, which includes the URL for Google+, at plus.google.com.Another access-checking service, Just Ping, also reports that the plus.google.com URL is inaccessible within China.The blocking by the Chinese government, using its \"great firewall\" \u2013 a censorship system which blocks a huge number of websites outside the Chinese borders on the basis that they contain \"destabilising\" content such as pornography or unsuitable views \u2013 matches that applied to other western social networks, including Facebook and Twitter. By contrast, the Guardian's site is accessible in many parts of China.)Google's main URL, google.com, has been blocked inside China since the company decided to withdraw from the mainland in 2010 in protest at what it saw as government-inspired hacking.According to the Great Firewall site, its Chinese version, google.cn, is also blocked while that of China-sanctioned Baidu is not.Google+ is being seen as Google's answer to Facebook, which boasts almost 700m users \u2013 although it is effectively banned inside China, where only people who use encrypted connections to the outside world are able to join it.Vic Gundotra, one of the company's top engineers who watched the development closely, posted on Google+ early on Thursday morning (at roughly 8.45pm on Wednesday night in Google's Pacific timezone) that \"we've shut down the invite mechanism for the night. Insane demand. We need to do this carefully, and in a controlled way. Thank you for all of your interest!\"Invites were opened up again on Thursday afternoon, though only on a limited basis.There are no details yet on how many people have joined the service.China's government on Friday celebrates an important anniversary, of 90 years since the founding of the Communist party of China, and it has instituted a number of crackdowns on internet use and heightened censorship.Earlier this week Google revealed that it receives a steady stream of requests for private data from developed countries \u2014 but that it had had no content removal requests from the Chinese government in the second half of 2010. However it received 90 requests from China-controlled Hong Kong for user data, an increase of 80% from the same period in 2009; it acquiesced to 53 of them, a 59% compliance rate.", "tags": ["Google", "Technology", "Digital media", "Media", "Social networking", "Blogging", "China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Google+ 'blocked in China'"},{"date": "2011-05-09T09:36:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Last month's coup, with Claire Armitstead blasting off to Russia in pursuit of Yuri Gagarin, spread a little stardust over our collection of recommendations, with Dominic H hymning the \"sharp, beautful, unforgettable, prose\" of Venedikt Yerofeev's Brezhnev-era Inferno, Moscow Stations, GraceAndreacchi saluting Pechorin in Mikhail Lermontov's A Hero of Our Time as \"the Russian anti-hero at his Byronic best\" and, of course, chak's reminder of a work I'm sure we're all familiar with, Alexander Plotkin's, erm, \u0437\u0430\u043f\u0440\u0435\u0442\u043d\u044b\u0439 \u043f\u043b\u043e\u0434.But this month we're taking the World literature tour back to its roots, calling up the spirit of Diego's original invention and returning to the democratic principles on which it was first established by heading to ... China. The irony of heading to the world's mightiest totalitarian regime, which has kept a tight lid on dissent since 1989's Tiananmen Square protests, on the basis of a vote, is acute. At the opening of the Beijing Olympic Games in 2008, International Pen identified 42 writers and journalists imprisoned by the regime, a situation which appears only to have worsened since, with 10 pages of International Pen's 2010 caselist taken up with Chinese writers and recent uprisings across the Arab world prompting a new crackdown.All the more reason to celebrate both great writers from the past and those contemporary authors who are bravely creating fine work despite the commercial and political difficulties which surround them. Using the boxes below, we can assemble a list of fiction, non-fiction, poems and plays \u2013 whether written by Chinese authors or those looking at the Middle Kingdom from the outside \u2013 which can paint a portrait of life in China beyond the reach of any censor's black marker.I'm off to recommend the excellent Zhu Wen, as well as Bi Feiyu's brutal novella Moon Opera, filling in the country \u2013 that's China \u2013 the title, the author, the translator and some indication of why they're both so great in the boxes of power down below. But while you're racking your brains over whether to suggest Li Bai or Wang Wei, remember to keep an eye on the future. After China, where next? Remember to vote for the country of your choice in the comments below. The destination of the World literature is in your hands.", "tags": ["Fiction", "Books", "Poetry"], "title": "World literature tour: China"},{"date": "2011-06-28T14:00:02Z", "country": "china", "content": "Before beginning his formal programme of meetings in Britain, China's premier Wen Jiabao visited the MG car factory and Shakespeare's birthplace. In response to a comment by Peter Mandelson about the selection of these places, Wen thanked the previous Chinese ambassador Fu Ying for her advice, but said that Shakespeare was his own choice. He returned to the subject of his boyhood love of Shakespeare in his speech to David Cameron.Shakespeare occupies an interesting position in China, where major foreign writers such as Dickens, Conan Doyle, Balzac, Stendhal and the Russians were translated in the early 20th century and soon became household names. Many Chinese, including political leaders, take pride in being well-read. By contrast, how many English people, let alone political leaders, could name China's foremost 18th-century novelist, or the great poets of the 8th century?Though Dickens has always been politically correct, there are aspects of Shakespeare that have occasionally caused unease in China. There are his histories, dramas of the death of kings, and the overthrow of tyrannical rulers and even Hamlet contains \"political allusions too sensitive for a supreme dictator\" and a \"hero too tentative for the nation's militant cause\".Though the plays were published in Mao's China, it was not until after his death in 1976 that they were actually performed publicly. In the 1980s and 1990s there were hectic Shakespeare festivals in China. The 1986 festival featured 28 productions of 12 different plays within a fortnight, including the Merchant of Venice performed in English by the Arts Academy of the People's Liberation Army, Midsummer Night's Dream performed by the China Coal Miner's Drama Troupe and Othello by the China Railways Drama Group.After the appearance of the first translations in the early 20th century, for much of the period from 1949 to the late 1970s, Shakespeare was known only through the text and any literary criticism was rooted firmly in Marxism and Leninism. King Lear was described as \"a portrayal of the shaken economic foundations of feudal society\" and Romeo and Juliet, \"the desire of the bourgeoisie to shake off the yoke of the feudal code of ethics\". However, in 1979, the Old Vic Company performed Hamlet in Shanghai with a simultaneous translation, and in 1983 the famous actor Ying Ruocheng translated and directed The Merchant of Venice at the People's Art Theatre in Beijing.Many of Shakespeare's stories have almost universal appeal and have been adapted to various traditional Chinese forms. I saw a very lively and amusing Peking Opera version of Othello in the mid 1980s, which showed how easily the story could translate, while Shakespeare's language can be very difficult. In China, the stories came first, with Lamb's Tales From Shakespeare \"translated\" in 1903. Lin Shu has been described as \"the most popular English-Chinese translator of the early 20th century who rewrote in classical Chinese prose a large number of novels by 19th-century writers including Dickens, Scott, Hugo and Balzac.\" \"Re-wrote\" is the key to Lin Shu's approach for he said \"I have no foreign languages\" but \"several gentlemen who interpret the texts for me.\" China's foremost 20th-century playwright Tian Han translated Romeo and Juliet in 1922, when he was a student in Japan so this, too, was probably a third-hand version.The two major translators of Shakespeare in China were Zhu Shenghao (1912-1944), who almost managed the complete works before his death from TB, and Liang Shiqiu (1903-1987), about whom more is known. He studied at Harvard and Columbia universities and conceived the idea of translating Shakespeare in 1930, finally finishing the task in 1967. Liang became a professor of English, teaching at Peking University and Tsinghua University and argued bitterly with leftwing writers such as the great scholar, satirist and short-story writer Lu Xun before moving to Taiwan in 1949. He translated Peter Pan, Silas Marner, Wuthering Heights and, unsurprisingly, given his disagreements with the left wing, Animal Farm. His own collected essays were published in English in Hong Kong under the faintly unfortunate title From a Cottager's Sketchbook.Liang's Shakespeare translations were more confident that Zhu's. His witches in the opening scene of Macbeth speak in regular lines of seven syllables, not in rhyme, but with the cadence of poetry, whilst Zhu's witches speak in prose. On the other hand, Zhu's translation of Hamlet's \"To be or not to be\" soliloquy retains the balance and repetition of the verb whilst Liang's rendering is complex: \"To live or to destroy, this is a question which merits thought\". Both have their partisans. It is likely that Wen read Liang's version of the Complete Works since, despite Liang's defection to Taiwan, they were published in a good new edition in Beijing in 1954 when the future premier was 14.A self-confessed Shakespeare lover, Wen is a geologist by training, but he is well known in China for beginning many of his speeches with a poetic reference and the usefulness of Shakespeare in that context has not passed him by. But neither should we ignore the possibility that his stress on Shakespeare during his visit to England is a graceful gesture, a reminder that culture is important, both at home and in international relations and that this visit need not be entirely devoted to economic questions.", "tags": ["Wen Jiabao", "William Shakespeare", "Culture", "China", "World news", "UK news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Why does China love Shakespeare? | Frances Wood"},{"date": "2011-06-30T15:58:18Z", "country": "china", "content": "Google's new social network service, Google+, has apparently been blocked in China within a day of being launched.The company also halted new signups after a torrid first 24 hours in which \"insane\" demand to join it forced the company to close it to new members briefly.According to the site Great Firewall of China, which uses a server based in China to try to access external web locations, Google users inside China are unable to access any location within google.com, which includes the URL for Google+, at plus.google.com.Another access-checking service, Just Ping, also reports that the plus.google.com URL is inaccessible within China.The blocking by the Chinese government, using its \"great firewall\" \u2013 a censorship system which blocks a huge number of websites outside the Chinese borders on the basis that they contain \"destabilising\" content such as pornography or unsuitable views \u2013 matches that applied to other western social networks, including Facebook and Twitter. By contrast, the Guardian's site is accessible in many parts of China.)Google's main URL, google.com, has been blocked inside China since the company decided to withdraw from the mainland in 2010 in protest at what it saw as government-inspired hacking.According to the Great Firewall site, its Chinese version, google.cn, is also blocked while that of China-sanctioned Baidu is not.Google+ is being seen as Google's answer to Facebook, which boasts almost 700m users \u2013 although it is effectively banned inside China, where only people who use encrypted connections to the outside world are able to join it.Vic Gundotra, one of the company's top engineers who watched the development closely, posted on Google+ early on Thursday morning (at roughly 8.45pm on Wednesday night in Google's Pacific timezone) that \"we've shut down the invite mechanism for the night. Insane demand. We need to do this carefully, and in a controlled way. Thank you for all of your interest!\"Invites were opened up again on Thursday afternoon, though only on a limited basis.There are no details yet on how many people have joined the service.China's government on Friday celebrates an important anniversary, of 90 years since the founding of the Communist party of China, and it has instituted a number of crackdowns on internet use and heightened censorship.Earlier this week Google revealed that it receives a steady stream of requests for private data from developed countries \u2014 but that it had had no content removal requests from the Chinese government in the second half of 2010. However it received 90 requests from China-controlled Hong Kong for user data, an increase of 80% from the same period in 2009; it acquiesced to 53 of them, a 59% compliance rate.", "tags": ["Google", "Technology", "Digital media", "Media", "Social networking", "Blogging", "China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Google+ 'blocked in China'"},{"date": "2011-05-09T09:36:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Last month's coup, with Claire Armitstead blasting off to Russia in pursuit of Yuri Gagarin, spread a little stardust over our collection of recommendations, with Dominic H hymning the \"sharp, beautful, unforgettable, prose\" of Venedikt Yerofeev's Brezhnev-era Inferno, Moscow Stations, GraceAndreacchi saluting Pechorin in Mikhail Lermontov's A Hero of Our Time as \"the Russian anti-hero at his Byronic best\" and, of course, chak's reminder of a work I'm sure we're all familiar with, Alexander Plotkin's, erm, \u0437\u0430\u043f\u0440\u0435\u0442\u043d\u044b\u0439 \u043f\u043b\u043e\u0434.But this month we're taking the World literature tour back to its roots, calling up the spirit of Diego's original invention and returning to the democratic principles on which it was first established by heading to ... China. The irony of heading to the world's mightiest totalitarian regime, which has kept a tight lid on dissent since 1989's Tiananmen Square protests, on the basis of a vote, is acute. At the opening of the Beijing Olympic Games in 2008, International Pen identified 42 writers and journalists imprisoned by the regime, a situation which appears only to have worsened since, with 10 pages of International Pen's 2010 caselist taken up with Chinese writers and recent uprisings across the Arab world prompting a new crackdown.All the more reason to celebrate both great writers from the past and those contemporary authors who are bravely creating fine work despite the commercial and political difficulties which surround them. Using the boxes below, we can assemble a list of fiction, non-fiction, poems and plays \u2013 whether written by Chinese authors or those looking at the Middle Kingdom from the outside \u2013 which can paint a portrait of life in China beyond the reach of any censor's black marker.I'm off to recommend the excellent Zhu Wen, as well as Bi Feiyu's brutal novella Moon Opera, filling in the country \u2013 that's China \u2013 the title, the author, the translator and some indication of why they're both so great in the boxes of power down below. But while you're racking your brains over whether to suggest Li Bai or Wang Wei, remember to keep an eye on the future. After China, where next? Remember to vote for the country of your choice in the comments below. The destination of the World literature is in your hands.", "tags": ["Fiction", "Books", "Poetry"], "title": "World literature tour: China"},{"date": "2011-06-28T14:00:02Z", "country": "china", "content": "Before beginning his formal programme of meetings in Britain, China's premier Wen Jiabao visited the MG car factory and Shakespeare's birthplace. In response to a comment by Peter Mandelson about the selection of these places, Wen thanked the previous Chinese ambassador Fu Ying for her advice, but said that Shakespeare was his own choice. He returned to the subject of his boyhood love of Shakespeare in his speech to David Cameron.Shakespeare occupies an interesting position in China, where major foreign writers such as Dickens, Conan Doyle, Balzac, Stendhal and the Russians were translated in the early 20th century and soon became household names. Many Chinese, including political leaders, take pride in being well-read. By contrast, how many English people, let alone political leaders, could name China's foremost 18th-century novelist, or the great poets of the 8th century?Though Dickens has always been politically correct, there are aspects of Shakespeare that have occasionally caused unease in China. There are his histories, dramas of the death of kings, and the overthrow of tyrannical rulers and even Hamlet contains \"political allusions too sensitive for a supreme dictator\" and a \"hero too tentative for the nation's militant cause\".Though the plays were published in Mao's China, it was not until after his death in 1976 that they were actually performed publicly. In the 1980s and 1990s there were hectic Shakespeare festivals in China. The 1986 festival featured 28 productions of 12 different plays within a fortnight, including the Merchant of Venice performed in English by the Arts Academy of the People's Liberation Army, Midsummer Night's Dream performed by the China Coal Miner's Drama Troupe and Othello by the China Railways Drama Group.After the appearance of the first translations in the early 20th century, for much of the period from 1949 to the late 1970s, Shakespeare was known only through the text and any literary criticism was rooted firmly in Marxism and Leninism. King Lear was described as \"a portrayal of the shaken economic foundations of feudal society\" and Romeo and Juliet, \"the desire of the bourgeoisie to shake off the yoke of the feudal code of ethics\". However, in 1979, the Old Vic Company performed Hamlet in Shanghai with a simultaneous translation, and in 1983 the famous actor Ying Ruocheng translated and directed The Merchant of Venice at the People's Art Theatre in Beijing.Many of Shakespeare's stories have almost universal appeal and have been adapted to various traditional Chinese forms. I saw a very lively and amusing Peking Opera version of Othello in the mid 1980s, which showed how easily the story could translate, while Shakespeare's language can be very difficult. In China, the stories came first, with Lamb's Tales From Shakespeare \"translated\" in 1903. Lin Shu has been described as \"the most popular English-Chinese translator of the early 20th century who rewrote in classical Chinese prose a large number of novels by 19th-century writers including Dickens, Scott, Hugo and Balzac.\" \"Re-wrote\" is the key to Lin Shu's approach for he said \"I have no foreign languages\" but \"several gentlemen who interpret the texts for me.\" China's foremost 20th-century playwright Tian Han translated Romeo and Juliet in 1922, when he was a student in Japan so this, too, was probably a third-hand version.The two major translators of Shakespeare in China were Zhu Shenghao (1912-1944), who almost managed the complete works before his death from TB, and Liang Shiqiu (1903-1987), about whom more is known. He studied at Harvard and Columbia universities and conceived the idea of translating Shakespeare in 1930, finally finishing the task in 1967. Liang became a professor of English, teaching at Peking University and Tsinghua University and argued bitterly with leftwing writers such as the great scholar, satirist and short-story writer Lu Xun before moving to Taiwan in 1949. He translated Peter Pan, Silas Marner, Wuthering Heights and, unsurprisingly, given his disagreements with the left wing, Animal Farm. His own collected essays were published in English in Hong Kong under the faintly unfortunate title From a Cottager's Sketchbook.Liang's Shakespeare translations were more confident that Zhu's. His witches in the opening scene of Macbeth speak in regular lines of seven syllables, not in rhyme, but with the cadence of poetry, whilst Zhu's witches speak in prose. On the other hand, Zhu's translation of Hamlet's \"To be or not to be\" soliloquy retains the balance and repetition of the verb whilst Liang's rendering is complex: \"To live or to destroy, this is a question which merits thought\". Both have their partisans. It is likely that Wen read Liang's version of the Complete Works since, despite Liang's defection to Taiwan, they were published in a good new edition in Beijing in 1954 when the future premier was 14.A self-confessed Shakespeare lover, Wen is a geologist by training, but he is well known in China for beginning many of his speeches with a poetic reference and the usefulness of Shakespeare in that context has not passed him by. But neither should we ignore the possibility that his stress on Shakespeare during his visit to England is a graceful gesture, a reminder that culture is important, both at home and in international relations and that this visit need not be entirely devoted to economic questions.", "tags": ["Wen Jiabao", "William Shakespeare", "Culture", "China", "World news", "UK news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Why does China love Shakespeare? | Frances Wood"},{"date": "2011-06-21T14:49:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Whatever its detractors may say, feminism is very much alive. Helped by globalisation, it is still contributing to greater freedom for humanity as a whole. Recent events are testimony to the start of a new phase in female emancipation, with women taking an active part in the \"jasmine revolution\", a growing awareness in French public opinion of gender-related violence, and support for the desire to have children and its ethical implications.Ancient and recent history seem to have prepared the combative vitality of the \"other half of the sky\" represented by China's second sex. We should remember that in the land of yin and yang, Tao Buddhism and Confucius, the bourgeois revolution was nationalist, socialist and feminist. In 1912 Chinese suffragettes invaded parliament. The women's rights movement inspired the May Fourth Movement in 1919, which called for equal rights for men and women, an end to polygamy and arranged marriages, and access to higher education for women. The law on marriage introduced by the People's Republic in 1950 abolished the \"head of the family\" and allowed mothers to keep their maiden name and bequeath property to their children. Meanwhile, housework entitled them to property rights.Increasing numbers of contemporary Chinese women are doing more than simply contribute to the growth of an emerging economic giant, or just protesting about all those left by the wayside. Neither the consenting victims of the religious fundamentalism that prevails under other regimes, nor yet the docile agents of marketing for the hyper-connected, they refuse to be intimidated by human rights violations. More and more women are defending and promoting the rights of their sisters. They realise that by demanding that state authorities implement the international agreements China has signed \u2013 as well as the articles (33 to 37) of the 4 December 1982 constitution on individual freedoms \u2013 they are contributing to social reform and progress towards constitutional democracy. At the same time they are vigorously condemning scandals, abuses and corruption.But these women are also subject to pressure, harassment and intimidation. Growing repression comes on top of stricter surveillance of the internet and tighter control by censors, fed by the fear that the rebellious spirit of the Middle East and Mediterranean countries may spread to China.In January 2010 the jury of the Simone de Beauvoir prize for women's liberty chose to honour two Chinese women for upholding women's rights: the lawyer Guo Jianmei and the professor of comparative literature and film-maker Ai Xiaoming. Only the former was able to attend the award ceremony in Paris in 2011, her fellow prize-winner not having been allowed to leave China.Guo trained as a lawyer and is now a member of the All China Lawyers Association (ACLA) and deputy-chair of the Beijing Association of Women Lawyers. At Beijing University she founded the Centre for Women's Law Studies and Legal Services, an NGO that defends and promotes judicial reform, as well as advocating better conditions for women in the People's Republic. In March this year she became the first Chinese to win the International Women of Courage Award, which was presented by Hillary Clinton.Professor Ai teaches at the Chinese language and literature department of Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, and heads the comparative literature department. In addition to her academic research on women's rights, Ai has also won recognition for her documentaries on gender violence, the difficulty of living with HIV-Aids, the dramatic consequences of the Sichuan earthquake and the harsh conditions endured by poor farmers.Two months after receiving the Beauvoir prize, Guo told us Beijing University had banned her NGO. We at the Simone de Beauvoir prize for women's liberty are increasingly concerned. Ai has also been the target of various forms of intimidation, with break-ins at her home, harassing phone calls and death threats.However, the international community is mainly interested in the Chinese economy. More or less conscious male chauvinism stands in the way of women's rights all over the world, blind to the full significance of the exemplary struggle waged by Chinese women such as Guo or Ai to gain freedom for men and women alike.We appeal to all who are convinced that women have an inalienable right to respect and emancipation. Join us in expressing your concern to the Chinese authorities and voicing your support for Guo and Ai. \"The free woman is just being born,\" Beauvoir wrote. She continues her long march in China, raising the hope of freedom for the world of tomorrow.This article originally appeared in Le MondeJulia Kristeva is the chair of the Simone de Beauvoir prize for women's liberty", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Gender", "Women", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Feminism under pressure in China"},{"date": "2011-06-30T15:58:18Z", "country": "china", "content": "Google's new social network service, Google+, has apparently been blocked in China within a day of being launched.The company also halted new signups after a torrid first 24 hours in which \"insane\" demand to join it forced the company to close it to new members briefly.According to the site Great Firewall of China, which uses a server based in China to try to access external web locations, Google users inside China are unable to access any location within google.com, which includes the URL for Google+, at plus.google.com.Another access-checking service, Just Ping, also reports that the plus.google.com URL is inaccessible within China.The blocking by the Chinese government, using its \"great firewall\" \u2013 a censorship system which blocks a huge number of websites outside the Chinese borders on the basis that they contain \"destabilising\" content such as pornography or unsuitable views \u2013 matches that applied to other western social networks, including Facebook and Twitter. By contrast, the Guardian's site is accessible in many parts of China.)Google's main URL, google.com, has been blocked inside China since the company decided to withdraw from the mainland in 2010 in protest at what it saw as government-inspired hacking.According to the Great Firewall site, its Chinese version, google.cn, is also blocked while that of China-sanctioned Baidu is not.Google+ is being seen as Google's answer to Facebook, which boasts almost 700m users \u2013 although it is effectively banned inside China, where only people who use encrypted connections to the outside world are able to join it.Vic Gundotra, one of the company's top engineers who watched the development closely, posted on Google+ early on Thursday morning (at roughly 8.45pm on Wednesday night in Google's Pacific timezone) that \"we've shut down the invite mechanism for the night. Insane demand. We need to do this carefully, and in a controlled way. Thank you for all of your interest!\"Invites were opened up again on Thursday afternoon, though only on a limited basis.There are no details yet on how many people have joined the service.China's government on Friday celebrates an important anniversary, of 90 years since the founding of the Communist party of China, and it has instituted a number of crackdowns on internet use and heightened censorship.Earlier this week Google revealed that it receives a steady stream of requests for private data from developed countries \u2014 but that it had had no content removal requests from the Chinese government in the second half of 2010. However it received 90 requests from China-controlled Hong Kong for user data, an increase of 80% from the same period in 2009; it acquiesced to 53 of them, a 59% compliance rate.", "tags": ["Google", "Technology", "Digital media", "Media", "Social networking", "Blogging", "China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Google+ 'blocked in China'"},{"date": "2011-05-09T09:36:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Last month's coup, with Claire Armitstead blasting off to Russia in pursuit of Yuri Gagarin, spread a little stardust over our collection of recommendations, with Dominic H hymning the \"sharp, beautful, unforgettable, prose\" of Venedikt Yerofeev's Brezhnev-era Inferno, Moscow Stations, GraceAndreacchi saluting Pechorin in Mikhail Lermontov's A Hero of Our Time as \"the Russian anti-hero at his Byronic best\" and, of course, chak's reminder of a work I'm sure we're all familiar with, Alexander Plotkin's, erm, \u0437\u0430\u043f\u0440\u0435\u0442\u043d\u044b\u0439 \u043f\u043b\u043e\u0434.But this month we're taking the World literature tour back to its roots, calling up the spirit of Diego's original invention and returning to the democratic principles on which it was first established by heading to ... China. The irony of heading to the world's mightiest totalitarian regime, which has kept a tight lid on dissent since 1989's Tiananmen Square protests, on the basis of a vote, is acute. At the opening of the Beijing Olympic Games in 2008, International Pen identified 42 writers and journalists imprisoned by the regime, a situation which appears only to have worsened since, with 10 pages of International Pen's 2010 caselist taken up with Chinese writers and recent uprisings across the Arab world prompting a new crackdown.All the more reason to celebrate both great writers from the past and those contemporary authors who are bravely creating fine work despite the commercial and political difficulties which surround them. Using the boxes below, we can assemble a list of fiction, non-fiction, poems and plays \u2013 whether written by Chinese authors or those looking at the Middle Kingdom from the outside \u2013 which can paint a portrait of life in China beyond the reach of any censor's black marker.I'm off to recommend the excellent Zhu Wen, as well as Bi Feiyu's brutal novella Moon Opera, filling in the country \u2013 that's China \u2013 the title, the author, the translator and some indication of why they're both so great in the boxes of power down below. But while you're racking your brains over whether to suggest Li Bai or Wang Wei, remember to keep an eye on the future. After China, where next? Remember to vote for the country of your choice in the comments below. The destination of the World literature is in your hands.", "tags": ["Fiction", "Books", "Poetry"], "title": "World literature tour: China"},{"date": "2011-06-28T14:00:02Z", "country": "china", "content": "Before beginning his formal programme of meetings in Britain, China's premier Wen Jiabao visited the MG car factory and Shakespeare's birthplace. In response to a comment by Peter Mandelson about the selection of these places, Wen thanked the previous Chinese ambassador Fu Ying for her advice, but said that Shakespeare was his own choice. He returned to the subject of his boyhood love of Shakespeare in his speech to David Cameron.Shakespeare occupies an interesting position in China, where major foreign writers such as Dickens, Conan Doyle, Balzac, Stendhal and the Russians were translated in the early 20th century and soon became household names. Many Chinese, including political leaders, take pride in being well-read. By contrast, how many English people, let alone political leaders, could name China's foremost 18th-century novelist, or the great poets of the 8th century?Though Dickens has always been politically correct, there are aspects of Shakespeare that have occasionally caused unease in China. There are his histories, dramas of the death of kings, and the overthrow of tyrannical rulers and even Hamlet contains \"political allusions too sensitive for a supreme dictator\" and a \"hero too tentative for the nation's militant cause\".Though the plays were published in Mao's China, it was not until after his death in 1976 that they were actually performed publicly. In the 1980s and 1990s there were hectic Shakespeare festivals in China. The 1986 festival featured 28 productions of 12 different plays within a fortnight, including the Merchant of Venice performed in English by the Arts Academy of the People's Liberation Army, Midsummer Night's Dream performed by the China Coal Miner's Drama Troupe and Othello by the China Railways Drama Group.After the appearance of the first translations in the early 20th century, for much of the period from 1949 to the late 1970s, Shakespeare was known only through the text and any literary criticism was rooted firmly in Marxism and Leninism. King Lear was described as \"a portrayal of the shaken economic foundations of feudal society\" and Romeo and Juliet, \"the desire of the bourgeoisie to shake off the yoke of the feudal code of ethics\". However, in 1979, the Old Vic Company performed Hamlet in Shanghai with a simultaneous translation, and in 1983 the famous actor Ying Ruocheng translated and directed The Merchant of Venice at the People's Art Theatre in Beijing.Many of Shakespeare's stories have almost universal appeal and have been adapted to various traditional Chinese forms. I saw a very lively and amusing Peking Opera version of Othello in the mid 1980s, which showed how easily the story could translate, while Shakespeare's language can be very difficult. In China, the stories came first, with Lamb's Tales From Shakespeare \"translated\" in 1903. Lin Shu has been described as \"the most popular English-Chinese translator of the early 20th century who rewrote in classical Chinese prose a large number of novels by 19th-century writers including Dickens, Scott, Hugo and Balzac.\" \"Re-wrote\" is the key to Lin Shu's approach for he said \"I have no foreign languages\" but \"several gentlemen who interpret the texts for me.\" China's foremost 20th-century playwright Tian Han translated Romeo and Juliet in 1922, when he was a student in Japan so this, too, was probably a third-hand version.The two major translators of Shakespeare in China were Zhu Shenghao (1912-1944), who almost managed the complete works before his death from TB, and Liang Shiqiu (1903-1987), about whom more is known. He studied at Harvard and Columbia universities and conceived the idea of translating Shakespeare in 1930, finally finishing the task in 1967. Liang became a professor of English, teaching at Peking University and Tsinghua University and argued bitterly with leftwing writers such as the great scholar, satirist and short-story writer Lu Xun before moving to Taiwan in 1949. He translated Peter Pan, Silas Marner, Wuthering Heights and, unsurprisingly, given his disagreements with the left wing, Animal Farm. His own collected essays were published in English in Hong Kong under the faintly unfortunate title From a Cottager's Sketchbook.Liang's Shakespeare translations were more confident that Zhu's. His witches in the opening scene of Macbeth speak in regular lines of seven syllables, not in rhyme, but with the cadence of poetry, whilst Zhu's witches speak in prose. On the other hand, Zhu's translation of Hamlet's \"To be or not to be\" soliloquy retains the balance and repetition of the verb whilst Liang's rendering is complex: \"To live or to destroy, this is a question which merits thought\". Both have their partisans. It is likely that Wen read Liang's version of the Complete Works since, despite Liang's defection to Taiwan, they were published in a good new edition in Beijing in 1954 when the future premier was 14.A self-confessed Shakespeare lover, Wen is a geologist by training, but he is well known in China for beginning many of his speeches with a poetic reference and the usefulness of Shakespeare in that context has not passed him by. But neither should we ignore the possibility that his stress on Shakespeare during his visit to England is a graceful gesture, a reminder that culture is important, both at home and in international relations and that this visit need not be entirely devoted to economic questions.", "tags": ["Wen Jiabao", "William Shakespeare", "Culture", "China", "World news", "UK news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Why does China love Shakespeare? | Frances Wood"},{"date": "2011-06-21T14:49:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Whatever its detractors may say, feminism is very much alive. Helped by globalisation, it is still contributing to greater freedom for humanity as a whole. Recent events are testimony to the start of a new phase in female emancipation, with women taking an active part in the \"jasmine revolution\", a growing awareness in French public opinion of gender-related violence, and support for the desire to have children and its ethical implications.Ancient and recent history seem to have prepared the combative vitality of the \"other half of the sky\" represented by China's second sex. We should remember that in the land of yin and yang, Tao Buddhism and Confucius, the bourgeois revolution was nationalist, socialist and feminist. In 1912 Chinese suffragettes invaded parliament. The women's rights movement inspired the May Fourth Movement in 1919, which called for equal rights for men and women, an end to polygamy and arranged marriages, and access to higher education for women. The law on marriage introduced by the People's Republic in 1950 abolished the \"head of the family\" and allowed mothers to keep their maiden name and bequeath property to their children. Meanwhile, housework entitled them to property rights.Increasing numbers of contemporary Chinese women are doing more than simply contribute to the growth of an emerging economic giant, or just protesting about all those left by the wayside. Neither the consenting victims of the religious fundamentalism that prevails under other regimes, nor yet the docile agents of marketing for the hyper-connected, they refuse to be intimidated by human rights violations. More and more women are defending and promoting the rights of their sisters. They realise that by demanding that state authorities implement the international agreements China has signed \u2013 as well as the articles (33 to 37) of the 4 December 1982 constitution on individual freedoms \u2013 they are contributing to social reform and progress towards constitutional democracy. At the same time they are vigorously condemning scandals, abuses and corruption.But these women are also subject to pressure, harassment and intimidation. Growing repression comes on top of stricter surveillance of the internet and tighter control by censors, fed by the fear that the rebellious spirit of the Middle East and Mediterranean countries may spread to China.In January 2010 the jury of the Simone de Beauvoir prize for women's liberty chose to honour two Chinese women for upholding women's rights: the lawyer Guo Jianmei and the professor of comparative literature and film-maker Ai Xiaoming. Only the former was able to attend the award ceremony in Paris in 2011, her fellow prize-winner not having been allowed to leave China.Guo trained as a lawyer and is now a member of the All China Lawyers Association (ACLA) and deputy-chair of the Beijing Association of Women Lawyers. At Beijing University she founded the Centre for Women's Law Studies and Legal Services, an NGO that defends and promotes judicial reform, as well as advocating better conditions for women in the People's Republic. In March this year she became the first Chinese to win the International Women of Courage Award, which was presented by Hillary Clinton.Professor Ai teaches at the Chinese language and literature department of Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, and heads the comparative literature department. In addition to her academic research on women's rights, Ai has also won recognition for her documentaries on gender violence, the difficulty of living with HIV-Aids, the dramatic consequences of the Sichuan earthquake and the harsh conditions endured by poor farmers.Two months after receiving the Beauvoir prize, Guo told us Beijing University had banned her NGO. We at the Simone de Beauvoir prize for women's liberty are increasingly concerned. Ai has also been the target of various forms of intimidation, with break-ins at her home, harassing phone calls and death threats.However, the international community is mainly interested in the Chinese economy. More or less conscious male chauvinism stands in the way of women's rights all over the world, blind to the full significance of the exemplary struggle waged by Chinese women such as Guo or Ai to gain freedom for men and women alike.We appeal to all who are convinced that women have an inalienable right to respect and emancipation. Join us in expressing your concern to the Chinese authorities and voicing your support for Guo and Ai. \"The free woman is just being born,\" Beauvoir wrote. She continues her long march in China, raising the hope of freedom for the world of tomorrow.This article originally appeared in Le MondeJulia Kristeva is the chair of the Simone de Beauvoir prize for women's liberty", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Gender", "Women", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Feminism under pressure in China"},{"date": "2011-06-02T14:45:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has rejected Google's accusations that it is behind a wave of high-level hacking attacks and said its critics had \"ulterior motives\" in trying to blame the government in Beijing.On Wednesday the search company revealed that Chinese hackers have stolen the Gmail login details of hundreds of senior US and South Korean government officials, as well as Chinese political activists \u2013 although China has rejected accusations it is behind the attacks, suggesting critics had \"ulterior motives\" in trying to blame the government in Beijing.China's rebuttal came after it emerged an independent blogger had broken news of the wave of attacks on her \"personal interest blog\" over three months ago.Google has warned the victims of the \"phishing\" scam and made a public statement about the threat. The US company said it could not say for sure who was responsible, but it traced many of the attacks to Jinan, the capital of Shandong province and a suspected centre of cyber espionage.\"The issue of attribution and knowing whether a state or non-state actors are involved is a huge problem in cybersecurity,\" Christopher Painter, coordinator for cyber issues for the state department, said on the sidelines of a cybersecurity conference in London. He declined to comment further on the Google claim.A spokesman for the Chinese foreign ministry said it was unacceptable to blame Beijing.\"Hacking attacks are an international issue. China is also a victim,\" Hong Lei told a regular press conference. \"The so-called statement that the Chinese government supports hacking attacks is a total fabrication out of nothing. It has ulterior motives.\"In a seperate development it emerged Mila Parkour, an IT worker and blogger, had revealed the scam on her Contagio blog on 17 February this year.Parkour, who is based in Washington DC, wrote that the method used \u2013 called \"spear phishing\" \u2013 was \"far from being new or sophisticated\", but described it as \"particularly invasive\". Her description of how the attack works matches accounts of the attack on Google.\"Victims get a message from an address of a close associate or a collaborating organisation/agency, which is spoofed,\" she wrote.\"The message is crafted to appear like it has an attachment with links like View Download and a name of the supposed attachment. The link leads to a fake Gmail login page for harvesting credentials.\"Parkour, who writes under a pseudonym, told the Guardian: \"I just shared my analysis, hoping it might help others.\"I did not officially notify Google as it was not a new type of attack,\" Parkour said. \"I did a mini research and analysis and posted the findings as I heard it happened to other people in the military and the US government.\"I did not realize it had as many victims as [Google] made it sound on their post.\"This is not the first clash between the world's biggest search engine and the world's biggest censor. In January 2010 Google said it would no longer censor its China-based search engine in accordance with government demands, in response to the China-based intrusions into the accounts of human rights activists. The Chinese authorities have since withdrawn the licence for Google's mainland-based search operations.Late last year diplomatic cables released by WikiLeaks revealed that Google had raised its concerns with the US embassy and a \"well-placed\" contact had said the targeting of Google was \"100% political\".The computer security firm McAfee has alleged that China-based attackers made \"co-ordinated, covert and targeted\" intrusions into the systems of five major oil and gas firms to steal proprietary information.Last month the human rights website change.org said it had been repeatedly targeted by hacking attacks from China after launching an online campaign for the release of the artist Ai Weiwei.The perpetrators and motives remain unclear, though Google's naming of Jinan as the origin is consistent with the assumptions behind previous investigations by security experts.Last year the New York Times named Lanxiang vocational school in Jinan as one of two educational institutions linked to the so-called Aurora attacks against Google.The school, which is about 250 miles south-east of Beijing, offers many technical subjects, including computing. It has repeatedly denied any involvement in the hacking attacks.Contacted on Thursday, the school rejected the latest accusations. \"We have nothing to do with this event,\" said a woman at the school office who declined to give her name. \" How can we have such high technology or such elite students? It's impossible.\"Chinese computer experts cautioned against drawing quick conclusions.\"It is very hard to say this is a problem caused by any one country. China is also sometimes a victim,\" said Song Jiaxing, a professor in the computer department of Tsinghua University. \"What this certainly shows is that security measures are inadequate. It's like operating a goldmine without sufficient locks.\"", "tags": ["China", "Google", "Gmail", "Hacking", "Data and computer security", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China denies Gmail hacking accusations"},{"date": "2011-06-30T15:58:18Z", "country": "china", "content": "Google's new social network service, Google+, has apparently been blocked in China within a day of being launched.The company also halted new signups after a torrid first 24 hours in which \"insane\" demand to join it forced the company to close it to new members briefly.According to the site Great Firewall of China, which uses a server based in China to try to access external web locations, Google users inside China are unable to access any location within google.com, which includes the URL for Google+, at plus.google.com.Another access-checking service, Just Ping, also reports that the plus.google.com URL is inaccessible within China.The blocking by the Chinese government, using its \"great firewall\" \u2013 a censorship system which blocks a huge number of websites outside the Chinese borders on the basis that they contain \"destabilising\" content such as pornography or unsuitable views \u2013 matches that applied to other western social networks, including Facebook and Twitter. By contrast, the Guardian's site is accessible in many parts of China.)Google's main URL, google.com, has been blocked inside China since the company decided to withdraw from the mainland in 2010 in protest at what it saw as government-inspired hacking.According to the Great Firewall site, its Chinese version, google.cn, is also blocked while that of China-sanctioned Baidu is not.Google+ is being seen as Google's answer to Facebook, which boasts almost 700m users \u2013 although it is effectively banned inside China, where only people who use encrypted connections to the outside world are able to join it.Vic Gundotra, one of the company's top engineers who watched the development closely, posted on Google+ early on Thursday morning (at roughly 8.45pm on Wednesday night in Google's Pacific timezone) that \"we've shut down the invite mechanism for the night. Insane demand. We need to do this carefully, and in a controlled way. Thank you for all of your interest!\"Invites were opened up again on Thursday afternoon, though only on a limited basis.There are no details yet on how many people have joined the service.China's government on Friday celebrates an important anniversary, of 90 years since the founding of the Communist party of China, and it has instituted a number of crackdowns on internet use and heightened censorship.Earlier this week Google revealed that it receives a steady stream of requests for private data from developed countries \u2014 but that it had had no content removal requests from the Chinese government in the second half of 2010. However it received 90 requests from China-controlled Hong Kong for user data, an increase of 80% from the same period in 2009; it acquiesced to 53 of them, a 59% compliance rate.", "tags": ["Google", "Technology", "Digital media", "Media", "Social networking", "Blogging", "China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Google+ 'blocked in China'"},{"date": "2011-05-09T09:36:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Last month's coup, with Claire Armitstead blasting off to Russia in pursuit of Yuri Gagarin, spread a little stardust over our collection of recommendations, with Dominic H hymning the \"sharp, beautful, unforgettable, prose\" of Venedikt Yerofeev's Brezhnev-era Inferno, Moscow Stations, GraceAndreacchi saluting Pechorin in Mikhail Lermontov's A Hero of Our Time as \"the Russian anti-hero at his Byronic best\" and, of course, chak's reminder of a work I'm sure we're all familiar with, Alexander Plotkin's, erm, \u0437\u0430\u043f\u0440\u0435\u0442\u043d\u044b\u0439 \u043f\u043b\u043e\u0434.But this month we're taking the World literature tour back to its roots, calling up the spirit of Diego's original invention and returning to the democratic principles on which it was first established by heading to ... China. The irony of heading to the world's mightiest totalitarian regime, which has kept a tight lid on dissent since 1989's Tiananmen Square protests, on the basis of a vote, is acute. At the opening of the Beijing Olympic Games in 2008, International Pen identified 42 writers and journalists imprisoned by the regime, a situation which appears only to have worsened since, with 10 pages of International Pen's 2010 caselist taken up with Chinese writers and recent uprisings across the Arab world prompting a new crackdown.All the more reason to celebrate both great writers from the past and those contemporary authors who are bravely creating fine work despite the commercial and political difficulties which surround them. Using the boxes below, we can assemble a list of fiction, non-fiction, poems and plays \u2013 whether written by Chinese authors or those looking at the Middle Kingdom from the outside \u2013 which can paint a portrait of life in China beyond the reach of any censor's black marker.I'm off to recommend the excellent Zhu Wen, as well as Bi Feiyu's brutal novella Moon Opera, filling in the country \u2013 that's China \u2013 the title, the author, the translator and some indication of why they're both so great in the boxes of power down below. But while you're racking your brains over whether to suggest Li Bai or Wang Wei, remember to keep an eye on the future. After China, where next? Remember to vote for the country of your choice in the comments below. The destination of the World literature is in your hands.", "tags": ["Fiction", "Books", "Poetry"], "title": "World literature tour: China"},{"date": "2011-06-28T14:00:02Z", "country": "china", "content": "Before beginning his formal programme of meetings in Britain, China's premier Wen Jiabao visited the MG car factory and Shakespeare's birthplace. In response to a comment by Peter Mandelson about the selection of these places, Wen thanked the previous Chinese ambassador Fu Ying for her advice, but said that Shakespeare was his own choice. He returned to the subject of his boyhood love of Shakespeare in his speech to David Cameron.Shakespeare occupies an interesting position in China, where major foreign writers such as Dickens, Conan Doyle, Balzac, Stendhal and the Russians were translated in the early 20th century and soon became household names. Many Chinese, including political leaders, take pride in being well-read. By contrast, how many English people, let alone political leaders, could name China's foremost 18th-century novelist, or the great poets of the 8th century?Though Dickens has always been politically correct, there are aspects of Shakespeare that have occasionally caused unease in China. There are his histories, dramas of the death of kings, and the overthrow of tyrannical rulers and even Hamlet contains \"political allusions too sensitive for a supreme dictator\" and a \"hero too tentative for the nation's militant cause\".Though the plays were published in Mao's China, it was not until after his death in 1976 that they were actually performed publicly. In the 1980s and 1990s there were hectic Shakespeare festivals in China. The 1986 festival featured 28 productions of 12 different plays within a fortnight, including the Merchant of Venice performed in English by the Arts Academy of the People's Liberation Army, Midsummer Night's Dream performed by the China Coal Miner's Drama Troupe and Othello by the China Railways Drama Group.After the appearance of the first translations in the early 20th century, for much of the period from 1949 to the late 1970s, Shakespeare was known only through the text and any literary criticism was rooted firmly in Marxism and Leninism. King Lear was described as \"a portrayal of the shaken economic foundations of feudal society\" and Romeo and Juliet, \"the desire of the bourgeoisie to shake off the yoke of the feudal code of ethics\". However, in 1979, the Old Vic Company performed Hamlet in Shanghai with a simultaneous translation, and in 1983 the famous actor Ying Ruocheng translated and directed The Merchant of Venice at the People's Art Theatre in Beijing.Many of Shakespeare's stories have almost universal appeal and have been adapted to various traditional Chinese forms. I saw a very lively and amusing Peking Opera version of Othello in the mid 1980s, which showed how easily the story could translate, while Shakespeare's language can be very difficult. In China, the stories came first, with Lamb's Tales From Shakespeare \"translated\" in 1903. Lin Shu has been described as \"the most popular English-Chinese translator of the early 20th century who rewrote in classical Chinese prose a large number of novels by 19th-century writers including Dickens, Scott, Hugo and Balzac.\" \"Re-wrote\" is the key to Lin Shu's approach for he said \"I have no foreign languages\" but \"several gentlemen who interpret the texts for me.\" China's foremost 20th-century playwright Tian Han translated Romeo and Juliet in 1922, when he was a student in Japan so this, too, was probably a third-hand version.The two major translators of Shakespeare in China were Zhu Shenghao (1912-1944), who almost managed the complete works before his death from TB, and Liang Shiqiu (1903-1987), about whom more is known. He studied at Harvard and Columbia universities and conceived the idea of translating Shakespeare in 1930, finally finishing the task in 1967. Liang became a professor of English, teaching at Peking University and Tsinghua University and argued bitterly with leftwing writers such as the great scholar, satirist and short-story writer Lu Xun before moving to Taiwan in 1949. He translated Peter Pan, Silas Marner, Wuthering Heights and, unsurprisingly, given his disagreements with the left wing, Animal Farm. His own collected essays were published in English in Hong Kong under the faintly unfortunate title From a Cottager's Sketchbook.Liang's Shakespeare translations were more confident that Zhu's. His witches in the opening scene of Macbeth speak in regular lines of seven syllables, not in rhyme, but with the cadence of poetry, whilst Zhu's witches speak in prose. On the other hand, Zhu's translation of Hamlet's \"To be or not to be\" soliloquy retains the balance and repetition of the verb whilst Liang's rendering is complex: \"To live or to destroy, this is a question which merits thought\". Both have their partisans. It is likely that Wen read Liang's version of the Complete Works since, despite Liang's defection to Taiwan, they were published in a good new edition in Beijing in 1954 when the future premier was 14.A self-confessed Shakespeare lover, Wen is a geologist by training, but he is well known in China for beginning many of his speeches with a poetic reference and the usefulness of Shakespeare in that context has not passed him by. But neither should we ignore the possibility that his stress on Shakespeare during his visit to England is a graceful gesture, a reminder that culture is important, both at home and in international relations and that this visit need not be entirely devoted to economic questions.", "tags": ["Wen Jiabao", "William Shakespeare", "Culture", "China", "World news", "UK news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Why does China love Shakespeare? | Frances Wood"},{"date": "2011-06-21T14:49:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Whatever its detractors may say, feminism is very much alive. Helped by globalisation, it is still contributing to greater freedom for humanity as a whole. Recent events are testimony to the start of a new phase in female emancipation, with women taking an active part in the \"jasmine revolution\", a growing awareness in French public opinion of gender-related violence, and support for the desire to have children and its ethical implications.Ancient and recent history seem to have prepared the combative vitality of the \"other half of the sky\" represented by China's second sex. We should remember that in the land of yin and yang, Tao Buddhism and Confucius, the bourgeois revolution was nationalist, socialist and feminist. In 1912 Chinese suffragettes invaded parliament. The women's rights movement inspired the May Fourth Movement in 1919, which called for equal rights for men and women, an end to polygamy and arranged marriages, and access to higher education for women. The law on marriage introduced by the People's Republic in 1950 abolished the \"head of the family\" and allowed mothers to keep their maiden name and bequeath property to their children. Meanwhile, housework entitled them to property rights.Increasing numbers of contemporary Chinese women are doing more than simply contribute to the growth of an emerging economic giant, or just protesting about all those left by the wayside. Neither the consenting victims of the religious fundamentalism that prevails under other regimes, nor yet the docile agents of marketing for the hyper-connected, they refuse to be intimidated by human rights violations. More and more women are defending and promoting the rights of their sisters. They realise that by demanding that state authorities implement the international agreements China has signed \u2013 as well as the articles (33 to 37) of the 4 December 1982 constitution on individual freedoms \u2013 they are contributing to social reform and progress towards constitutional democracy. At the same time they are vigorously condemning scandals, abuses and corruption.But these women are also subject to pressure, harassment and intimidation. Growing repression comes on top of stricter surveillance of the internet and tighter control by censors, fed by the fear that the rebellious spirit of the Middle East and Mediterranean countries may spread to China.In January 2010 the jury of the Simone de Beauvoir prize for women's liberty chose to honour two Chinese women for upholding women's rights: the lawyer Guo Jianmei and the professor of comparative literature and film-maker Ai Xiaoming. Only the former was able to attend the award ceremony in Paris in 2011, her fellow prize-winner not having been allowed to leave China.Guo trained as a lawyer and is now a member of the All China Lawyers Association (ACLA) and deputy-chair of the Beijing Association of Women Lawyers. At Beijing University she founded the Centre for Women's Law Studies and Legal Services, an NGO that defends and promotes judicial reform, as well as advocating better conditions for women in the People's Republic. In March this year she became the first Chinese to win the International Women of Courage Award, which was presented by Hillary Clinton.Professor Ai teaches at the Chinese language and literature department of Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, and heads the comparative literature department. In addition to her academic research on women's rights, Ai has also won recognition for her documentaries on gender violence, the difficulty of living with HIV-Aids, the dramatic consequences of the Sichuan earthquake and the harsh conditions endured by poor farmers.Two months after receiving the Beauvoir prize, Guo told us Beijing University had banned her NGO. We at the Simone de Beauvoir prize for women's liberty are increasingly concerned. Ai has also been the target of various forms of intimidation, with break-ins at her home, harassing phone calls and death threats.However, the international community is mainly interested in the Chinese economy. More or less conscious male chauvinism stands in the way of women's rights all over the world, blind to the full significance of the exemplary struggle waged by Chinese women such as Guo or Ai to gain freedom for men and women alike.We appeal to all who are convinced that women have an inalienable right to respect and emancipation. Join us in expressing your concern to the Chinese authorities and voicing your support for Guo and Ai. \"The free woman is just being born,\" Beauvoir wrote. She continues her long march in China, raising the hope of freedom for the world of tomorrow.This article originally appeared in Le MondeJulia Kristeva is the chair of the Simone de Beauvoir prize for women's liberty", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Gender", "Women", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Feminism under pressure in China"},{"date": "2011-06-02T14:45:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has rejected Google's accusations that it is behind a wave of high-level hacking attacks and said its critics had \"ulterior motives\" in trying to blame the government in Beijing.On Wednesday the search company revealed that Chinese hackers have stolen the Gmail login details of hundreds of senior US and South Korean government officials, as well as Chinese political activists \u2013 although China has rejected accusations it is behind the attacks, suggesting critics had \"ulterior motives\" in trying to blame the government in Beijing.China's rebuttal came after it emerged an independent blogger had broken news of the wave of attacks on her \"personal interest blog\" over three months ago.Google has warned the victims of the \"phishing\" scam and made a public statement about the threat. The US company said it could not say for sure who was responsible, but it traced many of the attacks to Jinan, the capital of Shandong province and a suspected centre of cyber espionage.\"The issue of attribution and knowing whether a state or non-state actors are involved is a huge problem in cybersecurity,\" Christopher Painter, coordinator for cyber issues for the state department, said on the sidelines of a cybersecurity conference in London. He declined to comment further on the Google claim.A spokesman for the Chinese foreign ministry said it was unacceptable to blame Beijing.\"Hacking attacks are an international issue. China is also a victim,\" Hong Lei told a regular press conference. \"The so-called statement that the Chinese government supports hacking attacks is a total fabrication out of nothing. It has ulterior motives.\"In a seperate development it emerged Mila Parkour, an IT worker and blogger, had revealed the scam on her Contagio blog on 17 February this year.Parkour, who is based in Washington DC, wrote that the method used \u2013 called \"spear phishing\" \u2013 was \"far from being new or sophisticated\", but described it as \"particularly invasive\". Her description of how the attack works matches accounts of the attack on Google.\"Victims get a message from an address of a close associate or a collaborating organisation/agency, which is spoofed,\" she wrote.\"The message is crafted to appear like it has an attachment with links like View Download and a name of the supposed attachment. The link leads to a fake Gmail login page for harvesting credentials.\"Parkour, who writes under a pseudonym, told the Guardian: \"I just shared my analysis, hoping it might help others.\"I did not officially notify Google as it was not a new type of attack,\" Parkour said. \"I did a mini research and analysis and posted the findings as I heard it happened to other people in the military and the US government.\"I did not realize it had as many victims as [Google] made it sound on their post.\"This is not the first clash between the world's biggest search engine and the world's biggest censor. In January 2010 Google said it would no longer censor its China-based search engine in accordance with government demands, in response to the China-based intrusions into the accounts of human rights activists. The Chinese authorities have since withdrawn the licence for Google's mainland-based search operations.Late last year diplomatic cables released by WikiLeaks revealed that Google had raised its concerns with the US embassy and a \"well-placed\" contact had said the targeting of Google was \"100% political\".The computer security firm McAfee has alleged that China-based attackers made \"co-ordinated, covert and targeted\" intrusions into the systems of five major oil and gas firms to steal proprietary information.Last month the human rights website change.org said it had been repeatedly targeted by hacking attacks from China after launching an online campaign for the release of the artist Ai Weiwei.The perpetrators and motives remain unclear, though Google's naming of Jinan as the origin is consistent with the assumptions behind previous investigations by security experts.Last year the New York Times named Lanxiang vocational school in Jinan as one of two educational institutions linked to the so-called Aurora attacks against Google.The school, which is about 250 miles south-east of Beijing, offers many technical subjects, including computing. It has repeatedly denied any involvement in the hacking attacks.Contacted on Thursday, the school rejected the latest accusations. \"We have nothing to do with this event,\" said a woman at the school office who declined to give her name. \" How can we have such high technology or such elite students? It's impossible.\"Chinese computer experts cautioned against drawing quick conclusions.\"It is very hard to say this is a problem caused by any one country. China is also sometimes a victim,\" said Song Jiaxing, a professor in the computer department of Tsinghua University. \"What this certainly shows is that security measures are inadequate. It's like operating a goldmine without sufficient locks.\"", "tags": ["China", "Google", "Gmail", "Hacking", "Data and computer security", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China denies Gmail hacking accusations"},{"date": "2011-05-10T13:01:45Z", "country": "china", "content": "The new National Museum of China occupies a huge building with a colonnaded facade overlooking Tiananmen Square, opposite the Mao Zedong mausoleum. After three years of renovation and extension work, its 192,000 square metres of exhibition space is supposed to give the People's Republic a museum in keeping with its international standing. Only the Louvre in Paris (210,000 square metres) is larger.It opened to the public in March, with free admission, but only 8,000 visitors a day are allowed to see the permanent exhibition. So the Chinese turn up early in the morning to see the rooms devoted to national resurrection, ancient bronzes, Chinese porcelain and statues of the Buddha. The rooms on ancient China have just opened.The task of converting this gigantic Stalinist structure, dating from 1959, and redesigning its entrance hall and exhibition spaces, was given to a German firm of architects, Gerkan, Mark & Partners, better known for railway stations, airports and sports stadiums. History museums all over China have been pressed to dispatch some of their greatest treasures to the capital.But despite its facelift the institution's prime mission is still patriotic education, fashioning and interpreting Chinese history to serve the party line. A perfect illustration is the permanent exhibition entitled The Path to National Resurrection. It starts with the period of humiliation to which western colonial powers subjected China, highlighting the steps on the way to nationalist reawakening and modernisation, with the foundation of the first republic.The sections focusing on the People's Republic, established when Mao seized power in 1949, take visitors through the key moments in the history of the Communist party, culminating in the economic achievements of recent years, with the conquest of space, fast trains to Tibet and the Olympic Games.A smiling Mao appears in just one photograph, talking to party members in 1961 after the disastrous experiment with the Great Leap Forward, which caused the deaths of millions of Chinese. Two others allude to the Cultural Revolution, but fail to mention its atrocities. The only picture relating to the events of 1989, in the square outside, is dated 9\u00a0June and shows Deng Xiaoping congratulating the troops enforcing martial law.\"I was surprised to see there is so little detail,\" said a young biology student, Li, born in 1987. \"Some of our teachers talk about Tiananmen and we all look on the net,\" she added. This mutilated history \"infuriates\" Yang Jisheng, a former journalist at the Xinhua news agency and author of a monumental study of the great famine, which is banned in China. \"Those of us who are familiar with the history avoid this sort of museum. Historical facts have been perverted. The refusal to talk about the past is a bit like plugging your ears while you steal a bell, convinced that no one else will hear,\" he said.The concepts of reawakening and regeneration are particularly upsetting, Yang adds. \"They refer to periods when China was supposedly glorious. But which period should we consider: the first emperor, the Tang or the Qin dynasty? And which aspects should we retain of these periods, which were after all dictatorships?\"In these days of keen rivalry between the world's great museums, the Beijing show highlights a contradiction deep-rooted in the People's Republic: the first exhibition loaned by a foreign organisation is devoted to the Art of Enlightenment. Thanks to this master-stroke of German diplomacy, Chinese visitors can enjoy 600 works of 18th-century art from museums in Berlin, Munich and Dresden.At the opening of the exhibition on 1 April, the German foreign minister, Guido Westerwelle, spoke of the ideals expressed by art, such as respect for human dignity, the rule of law and individual freedoms. Such ideas, he added, led to the fall of the Berlin wall, but the Chinese media made no mention of his comments.Other museums in Europe are thinking about staging shows here too, and the Louvre is already involved in a joint project. The luxury goods group LVMH has started talks about an exhibition on the Vuitton brand and travel. It is slated to occupy four rooms and last two or three months, according to the LVMH spokesperson in Shanghai.With its prestige, ambitious aims and vast exhibition space begging to be filled, museums from all over the world are courting the Chinese mogul. But this may not be a simple task. As one expert said: \"The editorial line of Chinese museums is not always crystal clear.\"This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Museums", "Architecture", "China", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "National museum lauds patriotic China"},{"date": "2011-09-27T15:28:55Z", "country": "china", "content": "Here's a business-lounge scary story. In 1994, Warner Bros was feeling very pleased with itself. It had just finalised a joint venture with the Chinese government to bring the splendours of multiplex cinema to the country. And the terms were good: a 70/30 profit split in favour of the Americans. Building began, but several months later, strange tidings arrived at Warner HQ. The arrangement had been reviewed: still favouring Warner, but now to the tune of 51/49. There was confusion and disbelief in California, but work continued. The eighth cinema was ready when the inevitable happened: the Chinese authorities decided that foreign companies could not own cinemas. The split was arbitrarily reversed 49/51, leaving Beijing with its hands on the curtain cords of several million dollars' worth of chipper new multiplexes.The moral? China has \"opened up\" before. This summer, an opening appeared again. Two Hollywood companies looked to have cracked it: signing production agreements with Chinese companies allowing them to bypass the dreaded quota limiting foreign film releases to 20 a year. Relativity Media, Ryan Kavanaugh's vibrant mini-studio, got the golden ticket: a partnership with state-owned distributor Huaxia  to make \"Chinese-based material with global appeal\". Legendary Pictures (who have funded many of Warner Bros' bigger recent releases, including 300 and Inception) have teamed up with China's largest private media company, Huayi Brothers, to form Legendary East. The new outfit is going to produce English-language films that package up Chinese culture for a global audience.The most optimistic view of the split this time is 50/50. The American companies get a peek into the high-walled Chinese playground; China gets an injection of Hollywood storytelling pep, marketing savvy and global distribution that might help its film industry kick on. Despite the endless barrage of coverage declaring the 21st century Beijing-owned, Chinese cinema isn't flourishing, numerically at least. Official figures claim 400 films a year, but the real figure is supposed to be between 50 and 100; putting them on a par with countries like Russia, Denmark and Mexico. Its labyrinthine censorship practices tend to favour stodgy historical epics, like Red Cliff, The Warlords and Confucius, which don't seem likely to satisfy its growing film audience for long: box office boomed by a staggering 60% in 2010, up to $1.5bn.This might look like a green light for Hollywood. But Screen International's Liz Shackleton had some advice for Legendary and Relativity in a recent article: \"If China wants you in, you're in, and if it wants you out, there's not much you can do about it. But even those who are 'in' need to be wary. China has a habit of inviting companies to manufacture in the country, learning all their processes, and then setting off on its own with very successful imitations.\"It's certainly in China's best interests to appear open at the moment: the World Trade Organisation ruled that it had to scrap the quota in March. No official announcements have been made, but the Legendary and Relativity arrangements (along with other isolated co-productions, like Zhang Yimou's The 13 Women of Nanjing  and Sony's Karate Kid remake, that get special treatment) at least give the impression that Beijing is starting to chill out.But it's tougher to gauge how enthusiastic the Chinese film industry truly is about co-operation. Nothing communicates that more forcefully than the opaque standards of the quota. It was announced that Relativity, through its partners, would be able to release its own movies outside of the quota; legally, as foreign productions, they should be subject to it. Very confusing. Legendary East, technically a Chinese company, will be exempt from the requirements \u2013 but that looks like less of a coup when you consider the rules were often bent anyway. As Shackleton points out, there have sometimes been more than 20 foreign releases, and the system could be played through skilful lobbying: Rupert Murdoch managed to secure a wide release for Titanic in 1998 by screening it privately for the then-president Jiang Zemin; the premier's personal endorsement eventually went on the movie posters.To be blunt, only China has access to the whole rulebook. Some commentators thought the quota would simply be slowly increased by, say, 10 films a year \u2013 but this summer's deals look like the Communist party want to play the \u00e9minence grise game, and keep things vague. It's understandable that Beijing wants to keep a grip on its own film market, which is as vulnerable to Hollywood as any other country (the US already takes a 50% share with its 20 films); but its plans for Chinese-flavoured mass-market movies also look like the opening moves in a soft-power chess game. Legendary and Relativity need to be aware. It could be a brave new era for them or history could be repeating itself. Typical: all you want is to make movies, and everything gets geopolitical on your ass.What global box-office stories should we be writing about? How does Hollywood hawk its wares in your country? Let us know in the comments below \u2026", "tags": ["World cinema", "Film", "Culture", "China", "Film industry", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Has Hollywood cracked China?"},{"date": "2011-09-27T15:28:55Z", "country": "china", "content": "Here's a business-lounge scary story. In 1994, Warner Bros was feeling very pleased with itself. It had just finalised a joint venture with the Chinese government to bring the splendours of multiplex cinema to the country. And the terms were good: a 70/30 profit split in favour of the Americans. Building began, but several months later, strange tidings arrived at Warner HQ. The arrangement had been reviewed: still favouring Warner, but now to the tune of 51/49. There was confusion and disbelief in California, but work continued. The eighth cinema was ready when the inevitable happened: the Chinese authorities decided that foreign companies could not own cinemas. The split was arbitrarily reversed 49/51, leaving Beijing with its hands on the curtain cords of several million dollars' worth of chipper new multiplexes.The moral? China has \"opened up\" before. This summer, an opening appeared again. Two Hollywood companies looked to have cracked it: signing production agreements with Chinese companies allowing them to bypass the dreaded quota limiting foreign film releases to 20 a year. Relativity Media, Ryan Kavanaugh's vibrant mini-studio, got the golden ticket: a partnership with state-owned distributor Huaxia  to make \"Chinese-based material with global appeal\". Legendary Pictures (who have funded many of Warner Bros' bigger recent releases, including 300 and Inception) have teamed up with China's largest private media company, Huayi Brothers, to form Legendary East. The new outfit is going to produce English-language films that package up Chinese culture for a global audience.The most optimistic view of the split this time is 50/50. The American companies get a peek into the high-walled Chinese playground; China gets an injection of Hollywood storytelling pep, marketing savvy and global distribution that might help its film industry kick on. Despite the endless barrage of coverage declaring the 21st century Beijing-owned, Chinese cinema isn't flourishing, numerically at least. Official figures claim 400 films a year, but the real figure is supposed to be between 50 and 100; putting them on a par with countries like Russia, Denmark and Mexico. Its labyrinthine censorship practices tend to favour stodgy historical epics, like Red Cliff, The Warlords and Confucius, which don't seem likely to satisfy its growing film audience for long: box office boomed by a staggering 60% in 2010, up to $1.5bn.This might look like a green light for Hollywood. But Screen International's Liz Shackleton had some advice for Legendary and Relativity in a recent article: \"If China wants you in, you're in, and if it wants you out, there's not much you can do about it. But even those who are 'in' need to be wary. China has a habit of inviting companies to manufacture in the country, learning all their processes, and then setting off on its own with very successful imitations.\"It's certainly in China's best interests to appear open at the moment: the World Trade Organisation ruled that it had to scrap the quota in March. No official announcements have been made, but the Legendary and Relativity arrangements (along with other isolated co-productions, like Zhang Yimou's The 13 Women of Nanjing  and Sony's Karate Kid remake, that get special treatment) at least give the impression that Beijing is starting to chill out.But it's tougher to gauge how enthusiastic the Chinese film industry truly is about co-operation. Nothing communicates that more forcefully than the opaque standards of the quota. It was announced that Relativity, through its partners, would be able to release its own movies outside of the quota; legally, as foreign productions, they should be subject to it. Very confusing. Legendary East, technically a Chinese company, will be exempt from the requirements \u2013 but that looks like less of a coup when you consider the rules were often bent anyway. As Shackleton points out, there have sometimes been more than 20 foreign releases, and the system could be played through skilful lobbying: Rupert Murdoch managed to secure a wide release for Titanic in 1998 by screening it privately for the then-president Jiang Zemin; the premier's personal endorsement eventually went on the movie posters.To be blunt, only China has access to the whole rulebook. Some commentators thought the quota would simply be slowly increased by, say, 10 films a year \u2013 but this summer's deals look like the Communist party want to play the \u00e9minence grise game, and keep things vague. It's understandable that Beijing wants to keep a grip on its own film market, which is as vulnerable to Hollywood as any other country (the US already takes a 50% share with its 20 films); but its plans for Chinese-flavoured mass-market movies also look like the opening moves in a soft-power chess game. Legendary and Relativity need to be aware. It could be a brave new era for them or history could be repeating itself. Typical: all you want is to make movies, and everything gets geopolitical on your ass.What global box-office stories should we be writing about? How does Hollywood hawk its wares in your country? Let us know in the comments below \u2026", "tags": ["World cinema", "Film", "Culture", "China", "Film industry", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Has Hollywood cracked China?"},{"date": "2011-07-26T10:27:52Z", "country": "china", "content": "Police have told cafes, hotels and other businesses in central Beijing to install surveillance technology for Wi-Fi users or face fines and possible closure, in a further tightening of internet controls.China has the world's largest and most sophisticated web censorship and monitoring system, which it has tightened still further after the Middle Eastern uprisings. Measures included blocking major virtual private networks, which allow people to evade internet controls.The new software, which costs about 20,000 yuan (\u00a31,900), allows officials to check the identities of users and monitor their activity. Businesses that fail to comply face a fine of the same size and could have their licences revoked.Strict controls already apply at internet cafes, which poorer people rely on for access.It is unclear how strictly the measures will be enforced, and it appears that only Dongcheng district has told owners of the regulations. A staff member at its internet security unit said the initiative was city-wide, but Beijing police headquarters had not responded to a faxed query at time of writing.The Dongcheng police officer added: \"This regulation is made to enhance internet security and to assist public security bureaux to break criminal cases. Details of implementation are confidential.\"According to the New York Times, a notice from the district office said the measure would tackle offenders seeking to \"conduct blackmail, traffic goods, gamble, propagate damaging information and spread computer viruses\".\"This is undoubtedly an invasion of Wi-Fi users' privacy,\" said Jason Chen, a 22-year-old Beijing resident.\"We have already felt the restriction on university campuses, since they have always been monitored. But this time, the control is stretching to cafes and people's feeling of violation is sharper. If cafes cancel their Wi-Fi I will care a lot, and I believe young people will react strongly.\"Some venues in Dongcheng complained they were already losing custom after cutting off Wi-Fi.\"It is just unbelievable. Customers are not happy either,\" said Leona Zhang, manager of the Contempio bar.\"Some owners simply think this is for the public security bureaux to make money from us. The charge is the same regardless of size, even for small ones with only two or three tables.\"Businesses in other parts of Beijing said they had not heard of the measure.\"If the regulation was implemented here, it would struggle to be accepted. The cost is too high,\" said a worker at the New Seven Day Bar in Haidian.\"Furthermore, there is also the privacy of our customers to protect.\"", "tags": ["China", "Wi-Fi", "Internet", "Technology", "Censorship", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Surveillance"], "title": "China boosts internet surveillance"},{"date": "2011-09-27T15:28:55Z", "country": "china", "content": "Here's a business-lounge scary story. In 1994, Warner Bros was feeling very pleased with itself. It had just finalised a joint venture with the Chinese government to bring the splendours of multiplex cinema to the country. And the terms were good: a 70/30 profit split in favour of the Americans. Building began, but several months later, strange tidings arrived at Warner HQ. The arrangement had been reviewed: still favouring Warner, but now to the tune of 51/49. There was confusion and disbelief in California, but work continued. The eighth cinema was ready when the inevitable happened: the Chinese authorities decided that foreign companies could not own cinemas. The split was arbitrarily reversed 49/51, leaving Beijing with its hands on the curtain cords of several million dollars' worth of chipper new multiplexes.The moral? China has \"opened up\" before. This summer, an opening appeared again. Two Hollywood companies looked to have cracked it: signing production agreements with Chinese companies allowing them to bypass the dreaded quota limiting foreign film releases to 20 a year. Relativity Media, Ryan Kavanaugh's vibrant mini-studio, got the golden ticket: a partnership with state-owned distributor Huaxia  to make \"Chinese-based material with global appeal\". Legendary Pictures (who have funded many of Warner Bros' bigger recent releases, including 300 and Inception) have teamed up with China's largest private media company, Huayi Brothers, to form Legendary East. The new outfit is going to produce English-language films that package up Chinese culture for a global audience.The most optimistic view of the split this time is 50/50. The American companies get a peek into the high-walled Chinese playground; China gets an injection of Hollywood storytelling pep, marketing savvy and global distribution that might help its film industry kick on. Despite the endless barrage of coverage declaring the 21st century Beijing-owned, Chinese cinema isn't flourishing, numerically at least. Official figures claim 400 films a year, but the real figure is supposed to be between 50 and 100; putting them on a par with countries like Russia, Denmark and Mexico. Its labyrinthine censorship practices tend to favour stodgy historical epics, like Red Cliff, The Warlords and Confucius, which don't seem likely to satisfy its growing film audience for long: box office boomed by a staggering 60% in 2010, up to $1.5bn.This might look like a green light for Hollywood. But Screen International's Liz Shackleton had some advice for Legendary and Relativity in a recent article: \"If China wants you in, you're in, and if it wants you out, there's not much you can do about it. But even those who are 'in' need to be wary. China has a habit of inviting companies to manufacture in the country, learning all their processes, and then setting off on its own with very successful imitations.\"It's certainly in China's best interests to appear open at the moment: the World Trade Organisation ruled that it had to scrap the quota in March. No official announcements have been made, but the Legendary and Relativity arrangements (along with other isolated co-productions, like Zhang Yimou's The 13 Women of Nanjing  and Sony's Karate Kid remake, that get special treatment) at least give the impression that Beijing is starting to chill out.But it's tougher to gauge how enthusiastic the Chinese film industry truly is about co-operation. Nothing communicates that more forcefully than the opaque standards of the quota. It was announced that Relativity, through its partners, would be able to release its own movies outside of the quota; legally, as foreign productions, they should be subject to it. Very confusing. Legendary East, technically a Chinese company, will be exempt from the requirements \u2013 but that looks like less of a coup when you consider the rules were often bent anyway. As Shackleton points out, there have sometimes been more than 20 foreign releases, and the system could be played through skilful lobbying: Rupert Murdoch managed to secure a wide release for Titanic in 1998 by screening it privately for the then-president Jiang Zemin; the premier's personal endorsement eventually went on the movie posters.To be blunt, only China has access to the whole rulebook. Some commentators thought the quota would simply be slowly increased by, say, 10 films a year \u2013 but this summer's deals look like the Communist party want to play the \u00e9minence grise game, and keep things vague. It's understandable that Beijing wants to keep a grip on its own film market, which is as vulnerable to Hollywood as any other country (the US already takes a 50% share with its 20 films); but its plans for Chinese-flavoured mass-market movies also look like the opening moves in a soft-power chess game. Legendary and Relativity need to be aware. It could be a brave new era for them or history could be repeating itself. Typical: all you want is to make movies, and everything gets geopolitical on your ass.What global box-office stories should we be writing about? How does Hollywood hawk its wares in your country? Let us know in the comments below \u2026", "tags": ["World cinema", "Film", "Culture", "China", "Film industry", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Has Hollywood cracked China?"},{"date": "2011-07-26T10:27:52Z", "country": "china", "content": "Police have told cafes, hotels and other businesses in central Beijing to install surveillance technology for Wi-Fi users or face fines and possible closure, in a further tightening of internet controls.China has the world's largest and most sophisticated web censorship and monitoring system, which it has tightened still further after the Middle Eastern uprisings. Measures included blocking major virtual private networks, which allow people to evade internet controls.The new software, which costs about 20,000 yuan (\u00a31,900), allows officials to check the identities of users and monitor their activity. Businesses that fail to comply face a fine of the same size and could have their licences revoked.Strict controls already apply at internet cafes, which poorer people rely on for access.It is unclear how strictly the measures will be enforced, and it appears that only Dongcheng district has told owners of the regulations. A staff member at its internet security unit said the initiative was city-wide, but Beijing police headquarters had not responded to a faxed query at time of writing.The Dongcheng police officer added: \"This regulation is made to enhance internet security and to assist public security bureaux to break criminal cases. Details of implementation are confidential.\"According to the New York Times, a notice from the district office said the measure would tackle offenders seeking to \"conduct blackmail, traffic goods, gamble, propagate damaging information and spread computer viruses\".\"This is undoubtedly an invasion of Wi-Fi users' privacy,\" said Jason Chen, a 22-year-old Beijing resident.\"We have already felt the restriction on university campuses, since they have always been monitored. But this time, the control is stretching to cafes and people's feeling of violation is sharper. If cafes cancel their Wi-Fi I will care a lot, and I believe young people will react strongly.\"Some venues in Dongcheng complained they were already losing custom after cutting off Wi-Fi.\"It is just unbelievable. Customers are not happy either,\" said Leona Zhang, manager of the Contempio bar.\"Some owners simply think this is for the public security bureaux to make money from us. The charge is the same regardless of size, even for small ones with only two or three tables.\"Businesses in other parts of Beijing said they had not heard of the measure.\"If the regulation was implemented here, it would struggle to be accepted. The cost is too high,\" said a worker at the New Seven Day Bar in Haidian.\"Furthermore, there is also the privacy of our customers to protect.\"", "tags": ["China", "Wi-Fi", "Internet", "Technology", "Censorship", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Surveillance"], "title": "China boosts internet surveillance"},{"date": "2011-07-23T22:35:05Z", "country": "china", "content": "At least 32 people have died after a high speed train crashed into a stalled train in China's eastern province of Zhejiang on Saturday, causing four carriages to fall off a bridge.Another 200 people have been taken to hospital following the accident which occurred after the first train lost power due to a lightning strike and was then hit from the back by another bullet train following it, according to state television.A preliminary investigation by the Zhejiang provincial government showed that four coaches of the moving train fell off the viaduct, the official Xinhua news agency reported. The cars plunged about 20-30 metres from the elevated section of track.Several other carriages were derailed in the accident near Wenzhou, 860 miles south of Beijing. Both trains were headed for the coastal city of Fuzhou; one from Beijing, the other from Zhejiang's provincial capital, Hangzhou.\"The train suddenly shook violently, casting luggage all around,\" Xinhua quoted survivor Liu Hongtao as saying. \"Passengers cried for help but no crew responded.\"The total power failure rendered useless an electronic safety system designed to warn following trains of stalled trains on the tracks and automatically halt them before a collision can occur.Railways minister Sheng Guangzu ordered an in-depth investigation of the accident.China's government has spent billions of dollars improving the railway network of the world's most populous country and has said it plans to spend $120bn (\u00a373bn) a year over several years on railway construction.The vast network has been hit by a series of scandals and safety incidents over the past few months. Three railway officials have been investigated for corruption so far this year, and in February Liu Zhijun was sacked as railways minister for \"serious disciplinary violations\". He had spearheaded the investment drive into the rail sector over the last decade.The flagship Beijing-Shanghai high-speed rail line has been plagued by power outages, leaving passengers stranded for hours on stuffy trains at least three times since it was opened earlier this month.The link is the latest and most celebrated portion of a network the government hopes will cover over 28,000 miles by the end of 2015.", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Train crashes"], "title": "China train crash kills 32"},{"date": "2011-09-27T15:28:55Z", "country": "china", "content": "Here's a business-lounge scary story. In 1994, Warner Bros was feeling very pleased with itself. It had just finalised a joint venture with the Chinese government to bring the splendours of multiplex cinema to the country. And the terms were good: a 70/30 profit split in favour of the Americans. Building began, but several months later, strange tidings arrived at Warner HQ. The arrangement had been reviewed: still favouring Warner, but now to the tune of 51/49. There was confusion and disbelief in California, but work continued. The eighth cinema was ready when the inevitable happened: the Chinese authorities decided that foreign companies could not own cinemas. The split was arbitrarily reversed 49/51, leaving Beijing with its hands on the curtain cords of several million dollars' worth of chipper new multiplexes.The moral? China has \"opened up\" before. This summer, an opening appeared again. Two Hollywood companies looked to have cracked it: signing production agreements with Chinese companies allowing them to bypass the dreaded quota limiting foreign film releases to 20 a year. Relativity Media, Ryan Kavanaugh's vibrant mini-studio, got the golden ticket: a partnership with state-owned distributor Huaxia  to make \"Chinese-based material with global appeal\". Legendary Pictures (who have funded many of Warner Bros' bigger recent releases, including 300 and Inception) have teamed up with China's largest private media company, Huayi Brothers, to form Legendary East. The new outfit is going to produce English-language films that package up Chinese culture for a global audience.The most optimistic view of the split this time is 50/50. The American companies get a peek into the high-walled Chinese playground; China gets an injection of Hollywood storytelling pep, marketing savvy and global distribution that might help its film industry kick on. Despite the endless barrage of coverage declaring the 21st century Beijing-owned, Chinese cinema isn't flourishing, numerically at least. Official figures claim 400 films a year, but the real figure is supposed to be between 50 and 100; putting them on a par with countries like Russia, Denmark and Mexico. Its labyrinthine censorship practices tend to favour stodgy historical epics, like Red Cliff, The Warlords and Confucius, which don't seem likely to satisfy its growing film audience for long: box office boomed by a staggering 60% in 2010, up to $1.5bn.This might look like a green light for Hollywood. But Screen International's Liz Shackleton had some advice for Legendary and Relativity in a recent article: \"If China wants you in, you're in, and if it wants you out, there's not much you can do about it. But even those who are 'in' need to be wary. China has a habit of inviting companies to manufacture in the country, learning all their processes, and then setting off on its own with very successful imitations.\"It's certainly in China's best interests to appear open at the moment: the World Trade Organisation ruled that it had to scrap the quota in March. No official announcements have been made, but the Legendary and Relativity arrangements (along with other isolated co-productions, like Zhang Yimou's The 13 Women of Nanjing  and Sony's Karate Kid remake, that get special treatment) at least give the impression that Beijing is starting to chill out.But it's tougher to gauge how enthusiastic the Chinese film industry truly is about co-operation. Nothing communicates that more forcefully than the opaque standards of the quota. It was announced that Relativity, through its partners, would be able to release its own movies outside of the quota; legally, as foreign productions, they should be subject to it. Very confusing. Legendary East, technically a Chinese company, will be exempt from the requirements \u2013 but that looks like less of a coup when you consider the rules were often bent anyway. As Shackleton points out, there have sometimes been more than 20 foreign releases, and the system could be played through skilful lobbying: Rupert Murdoch managed to secure a wide release for Titanic in 1998 by screening it privately for the then-president Jiang Zemin; the premier's personal endorsement eventually went on the movie posters.To be blunt, only China has access to the whole rulebook. Some commentators thought the quota would simply be slowly increased by, say, 10 films a year \u2013 but this summer's deals look like the Communist party want to play the \u00e9minence grise game, and keep things vague. It's understandable that Beijing wants to keep a grip on its own film market, which is as vulnerable to Hollywood as any other country (the US already takes a 50% share with its 20 films); but its plans for Chinese-flavoured mass-market movies also look like the opening moves in a soft-power chess game. Legendary and Relativity need to be aware. It could be a brave new era for them or history could be repeating itself. Typical: all you want is to make movies, and everything gets geopolitical on your ass.What global box-office stories should we be writing about? How does Hollywood hawk its wares in your country? Let us know in the comments below \u2026", "tags": ["World cinema", "Film", "Culture", "China", "Film industry", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Has Hollywood cracked China?"},{"date": "2011-07-26T10:27:52Z", "country": "china", "content": "Police have told cafes, hotels and other businesses in central Beijing to install surveillance technology for Wi-Fi users or face fines and possible closure, in a further tightening of internet controls.China has the world's largest and most sophisticated web censorship and monitoring system, which it has tightened still further after the Middle Eastern uprisings. Measures included blocking major virtual private networks, which allow people to evade internet controls.The new software, which costs about 20,000 yuan (\u00a31,900), allows officials to check the identities of users and monitor their activity. Businesses that fail to comply face a fine of the same size and could have their licences revoked.Strict controls already apply at internet cafes, which poorer people rely on for access.It is unclear how strictly the measures will be enforced, and it appears that only Dongcheng district has told owners of the regulations. A staff member at its internet security unit said the initiative was city-wide, but Beijing police headquarters had not responded to a faxed query at time of writing.The Dongcheng police officer added: \"This regulation is made to enhance internet security and to assist public security bureaux to break criminal cases. Details of implementation are confidential.\"According to the New York Times, a notice from the district office said the measure would tackle offenders seeking to \"conduct blackmail, traffic goods, gamble, propagate damaging information and spread computer viruses\".\"This is undoubtedly an invasion of Wi-Fi users' privacy,\" said Jason Chen, a 22-year-old Beijing resident.\"We have already felt the restriction on university campuses, since they have always been monitored. But this time, the control is stretching to cafes and people's feeling of violation is sharper. If cafes cancel their Wi-Fi I will care a lot, and I believe young people will react strongly.\"Some venues in Dongcheng complained they were already losing custom after cutting off Wi-Fi.\"It is just unbelievable. Customers are not happy either,\" said Leona Zhang, manager of the Contempio bar.\"Some owners simply think this is for the public security bureaux to make money from us. The charge is the same regardless of size, even for small ones with only two or three tables.\"Businesses in other parts of Beijing said they had not heard of the measure.\"If the regulation was implemented here, it would struggle to be accepted. The cost is too high,\" said a worker at the New Seven Day Bar in Haidian.\"Furthermore, there is also the privacy of our customers to protect.\"", "tags": ["China", "Wi-Fi", "Internet", "Technology", "Censorship", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Surveillance"], "title": "China boosts internet surveillance"},{"date": "2011-07-23T22:35:05Z", "country": "china", "content": "At least 32 people have died after a high speed train crashed into a stalled train in China's eastern province of Zhejiang on Saturday, causing four carriages to fall off a bridge.Another 200 people have been taken to hospital following the accident which occurred after the first train lost power due to a lightning strike and was then hit from the back by another bullet train following it, according to state television.A preliminary investigation by the Zhejiang provincial government showed that four coaches of the moving train fell off the viaduct, the official Xinhua news agency reported. The cars plunged about 20-30 metres from the elevated section of track.Several other carriages were derailed in the accident near Wenzhou, 860 miles south of Beijing. Both trains were headed for the coastal city of Fuzhou; one from Beijing, the other from Zhejiang's provincial capital, Hangzhou.\"The train suddenly shook violently, casting luggage all around,\" Xinhua quoted survivor Liu Hongtao as saying. \"Passengers cried for help but no crew responded.\"The total power failure rendered useless an electronic safety system designed to warn following trains of stalled trains on the tracks and automatically halt them before a collision can occur.Railways minister Sheng Guangzu ordered an in-depth investigation of the accident.China's government has spent billions of dollars improving the railway network of the world's most populous country and has said it plans to spend $120bn (\u00a373bn) a year over several years on railway construction.The vast network has been hit by a series of scandals and safety incidents over the past few months. Three railway officials have been investigated for corruption so far this year, and in February Liu Zhijun was sacked as railways minister for \"serious disciplinary violations\". He had spearheaded the investment drive into the rail sector over the last decade.The flagship Beijing-Shanghai high-speed rail line has been plagued by power outages, leaving passengers stranded for hours on stuffy trains at least three times since it was opened earlier this month.The link is the latest and most celebrated portion of a network the government hopes will cover over 28,000 miles by the end of 2015.", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Train crashes"], "title": "China train crash kills 32"},{"date": "2011-09-29T05:29:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has started the countdown to launch a space station module, the Tiangong-1, that is the first step in establishing a permanent manned presence in orbit above the Earth.A Long March II 2F rocket is scheduled to take off soon after 1.16pm GMT on Thursday from Jiuquan in Gansu province, carrying the laboratory to an altitude of 220 miles (350km) where it will circle the planet unmanned while its systems are tested.A crew capsule, Shenzhou 8, is to be launched unmanned in November and carry out docking tests with the Tiangong, which means \"heavenly palace\".Manned missions by Chinese astronauts, known as yuhangyuans, are to begin in 2012, according to Chinese state media.A backup, Tiangong 2, has been built in case Thursday's launch goes wrong.China's eventual aim is to build a 60-tonne space station within 10 years \u2013 it will be about a sixth the mass of the International Space Station.The Tiangong is believed by international analysts to include docking technology based on Russian designs.Yang Liwei in 2003 became the first man put in orbit by China's space programme, circling the Earth 14 times during 21 hours in orbit. Five others have followed him in crews of up to three at a time.The diving bell-shaped Shenzou is similar to the Russian Soyuz but as a whole the Shenzou is larger and has greater flying capabilities in orbit.", "tags": ["China", "Space", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China space station module awaits launch"},{"date": "2011-09-27T15:28:55Z", "country": "china", "content": "Here's a business-lounge scary story. In 1994, Warner Bros was feeling very pleased with itself. It had just finalised a joint venture with the Chinese government to bring the splendours of multiplex cinema to the country. And the terms were good: a 70/30 profit split in favour of the Americans. Building began, but several months later, strange tidings arrived at Warner HQ. The arrangement had been reviewed: still favouring Warner, but now to the tune of 51/49. There was confusion and disbelief in California, but work continued. The eighth cinema was ready when the inevitable happened: the Chinese authorities decided that foreign companies could not own cinemas. The split was arbitrarily reversed 49/51, leaving Beijing with its hands on the curtain cords of several million dollars' worth of chipper new multiplexes.The moral? China has \"opened up\" before. This summer, an opening appeared again. Two Hollywood companies looked to have cracked it: signing production agreements with Chinese companies allowing them to bypass the dreaded quota limiting foreign film releases to 20 a year. Relativity Media, Ryan Kavanaugh's vibrant mini-studio, got the golden ticket: a partnership with state-owned distributor Huaxia  to make \"Chinese-based material with global appeal\". Legendary Pictures (who have funded many of Warner Bros' bigger recent releases, including 300 and Inception) have teamed up with China's largest private media company, Huayi Brothers, to form Legendary East. The new outfit is going to produce English-language films that package up Chinese culture for a global audience.The most optimistic view of the split this time is 50/50. The American companies get a peek into the high-walled Chinese playground; China gets an injection of Hollywood storytelling pep, marketing savvy and global distribution that might help its film industry kick on. Despite the endless barrage of coverage declaring the 21st century Beijing-owned, Chinese cinema isn't flourishing, numerically at least. Official figures claim 400 films a year, but the real figure is supposed to be between 50 and 100; putting them on a par with countries like Russia, Denmark and Mexico. Its labyrinthine censorship practices tend to favour stodgy historical epics, like Red Cliff, The Warlords and Confucius, which don't seem likely to satisfy its growing film audience for long: box office boomed by a staggering 60% in 2010, up to $1.5bn.This might look like a green light for Hollywood. But Screen International's Liz Shackleton had some advice for Legendary and Relativity in a recent article: \"If China wants you in, you're in, and if it wants you out, there's not much you can do about it. But even those who are 'in' need to be wary. China has a habit of inviting companies to manufacture in the country, learning all their processes, and then setting off on its own with very successful imitations.\"It's certainly in China's best interests to appear open at the moment: the World Trade Organisation ruled that it had to scrap the quota in March. No official announcements have been made, but the Legendary and Relativity arrangements (along with other isolated co-productions, like Zhang Yimou's The 13 Women of Nanjing  and Sony's Karate Kid remake, that get special treatment) at least give the impression that Beijing is starting to chill out.But it's tougher to gauge how enthusiastic the Chinese film industry truly is about co-operation. Nothing communicates that more forcefully than the opaque standards of the quota. It was announced that Relativity, through its partners, would be able to release its own movies outside of the quota; legally, as foreign productions, they should be subject to it. Very confusing. Legendary East, technically a Chinese company, will be exempt from the requirements \u2013 but that looks like less of a coup when you consider the rules were often bent anyway. As Shackleton points out, there have sometimes been more than 20 foreign releases, and the system could be played through skilful lobbying: Rupert Murdoch managed to secure a wide release for Titanic in 1998 by screening it privately for the then-president Jiang Zemin; the premier's personal endorsement eventually went on the movie posters.To be blunt, only China has access to the whole rulebook. Some commentators thought the quota would simply be slowly increased by, say, 10 films a year \u2013 but this summer's deals look like the Communist party want to play the \u00e9minence grise game, and keep things vague. It's understandable that Beijing wants to keep a grip on its own film market, which is as vulnerable to Hollywood as any other country (the US already takes a 50% share with its 20 films); but its plans for Chinese-flavoured mass-market movies also look like the opening moves in a soft-power chess game. Legendary and Relativity need to be aware. It could be a brave new era for them or history could be repeating itself. Typical: all you want is to make movies, and everything gets geopolitical on your ass.What global box-office stories should we be writing about? How does Hollywood hawk its wares in your country? Let us know in the comments below \u2026", "tags": ["World cinema", "Film", "Culture", "China", "Film industry", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Has Hollywood cracked China?"},{"date": "2011-07-26T10:27:52Z", "country": "china", "content": "Police have told cafes, hotels and other businesses in central Beijing to install surveillance technology for Wi-Fi users or face fines and possible closure, in a further tightening of internet controls.China has the world's largest and most sophisticated web censorship and monitoring system, which it has tightened still further after the Middle Eastern uprisings. Measures included blocking major virtual private networks, which allow people to evade internet controls.The new software, which costs about 20,000 yuan (\u00a31,900), allows officials to check the identities of users and monitor their activity. Businesses that fail to comply face a fine of the same size and could have their licences revoked.Strict controls already apply at internet cafes, which poorer people rely on for access.It is unclear how strictly the measures will be enforced, and it appears that only Dongcheng district has told owners of the regulations. A staff member at its internet security unit said the initiative was city-wide, but Beijing police headquarters had not responded to a faxed query at time of writing.The Dongcheng police officer added: \"This regulation is made to enhance internet security and to assist public security bureaux to break criminal cases. Details of implementation are confidential.\"According to the New York Times, a notice from the district office said the measure would tackle offenders seeking to \"conduct blackmail, traffic goods, gamble, propagate damaging information and spread computer viruses\".\"This is undoubtedly an invasion of Wi-Fi users' privacy,\" said Jason Chen, a 22-year-old Beijing resident.\"We have already felt the restriction on university campuses, since they have always been monitored. But this time, the control is stretching to cafes and people's feeling of violation is sharper. If cafes cancel their Wi-Fi I will care a lot, and I believe young people will react strongly.\"Some venues in Dongcheng complained they were already losing custom after cutting off Wi-Fi.\"It is just unbelievable. Customers are not happy either,\" said Leona Zhang, manager of the Contempio bar.\"Some owners simply think this is for the public security bureaux to make money from us. The charge is the same regardless of size, even for small ones with only two or three tables.\"Businesses in other parts of Beijing said they had not heard of the measure.\"If the regulation was implemented here, it would struggle to be accepted. The cost is too high,\" said a worker at the New Seven Day Bar in Haidian.\"Furthermore, there is also the privacy of our customers to protect.\"", "tags": ["China", "Wi-Fi", "Internet", "Technology", "Censorship", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Surveillance"], "title": "China boosts internet surveillance"},{"date": "2011-07-23T22:35:05Z", "country": "china", "content": "At least 32 people have died after a high speed train crashed into a stalled train in China's eastern province of Zhejiang on Saturday, causing four carriages to fall off a bridge.Another 200 people have been taken to hospital following the accident which occurred after the first train lost power due to a lightning strike and was then hit from the back by another bullet train following it, according to state television.A preliminary investigation by the Zhejiang provincial government showed that four coaches of the moving train fell off the viaduct, the official Xinhua news agency reported. The cars plunged about 20-30 metres from the elevated section of track.Several other carriages were derailed in the accident near Wenzhou, 860 miles south of Beijing. Both trains were headed for the coastal city of Fuzhou; one from Beijing, the other from Zhejiang's provincial capital, Hangzhou.\"The train suddenly shook violently, casting luggage all around,\" Xinhua quoted survivor Liu Hongtao as saying. \"Passengers cried for help but no crew responded.\"The total power failure rendered useless an electronic safety system designed to warn following trains of stalled trains on the tracks and automatically halt them before a collision can occur.Railways minister Sheng Guangzu ordered an in-depth investigation of the accident.China's government has spent billions of dollars improving the railway network of the world's most populous country and has said it plans to spend $120bn (\u00a373bn) a year over several years on railway construction.The vast network has been hit by a series of scandals and safety incidents over the past few months. Three railway officials have been investigated for corruption so far this year, and in February Liu Zhijun was sacked as railways minister for \"serious disciplinary violations\". He had spearheaded the investment drive into the rail sector over the last decade.The flagship Beijing-Shanghai high-speed rail line has been plagued by power outages, leaving passengers stranded for hours on stuffy trains at least three times since it was opened earlier this month.The link is the latest and most celebrated portion of a network the government hopes will cover over 28,000 miles by the end of 2015.", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Train crashes"], "title": "China train crash kills 32"},{"date": "2011-09-29T05:29:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has started the countdown to launch a space station module, the Tiangong-1, that is the first step in establishing a permanent manned presence in orbit above the Earth.A Long March II 2F rocket is scheduled to take off soon after 1.16pm GMT on Thursday from Jiuquan in Gansu province, carrying the laboratory to an altitude of 220 miles (350km) where it will circle the planet unmanned while its systems are tested.A crew capsule, Shenzhou 8, is to be launched unmanned in November and carry out docking tests with the Tiangong, which means \"heavenly palace\".Manned missions by Chinese astronauts, known as yuhangyuans, are to begin in 2012, according to Chinese state media.A backup, Tiangong 2, has been built in case Thursday's launch goes wrong.China's eventual aim is to build a 60-tonne space station within 10 years \u2013 it will be about a sixth the mass of the International Space Station.The Tiangong is believed by international analysts to include docking technology based on Russian designs.Yang Liwei in 2003 became the first man put in orbit by China's space programme, circling the Earth 14 times during 21 hours in orbit. Five others have followed him in crews of up to three at a time.The diving bell-shaped Shenzou is similar to the Russian Soyuz but as a whole the Shenzou is larger and has greater flying capabilities in orbit.", "tags": ["China", "Space", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China space station module awaits launch"},{"date": "2011-09-13T08:21:21Z", "country": "china", "content": "China could step in to help rescue Europe from its debt crisis after holding top-level talks with Italy's finance minister.The Italian government confirmed on Tuesday that Giulio Tremonti had met the head of China Investment Corp, the country's sovereign wealth fund, in Rome last week. It is understood that Tremonti asked the Chinese delegation to consider buying Italy's sovereign debt and making strategic investments in Italian companies.The Italian treasury declined to give details of the meeting, but traders were encouraged that Beijing might use its financial muscle to help the eurozone.News of the talks came as Barack Obama warned that the world economy would suffer badly if Spain and Italy were sucked deeper into the European debt crisis.\"Greece is obviously the biggest immediate problem. And they're taking some steps to slow the crisis but not solve the crisis,\" Obama said, at a roundtable of Spanish journalists in Washington. \"The bigger problem is what happens in Spain and Italy if the markets keep making a run at those very big countries,\" the president added.Despite confirmation of the China talks, Italy was forced to pay record levels when it sold \u20ac6.5bn (\u00a35.6bn) of government debt on Tuesday morning. The yield, or interest rate, on Italian five-year bonds rose to 5.6% at the auction, a euro-era record.Italy's borrowing costs had also jumped on Monday amid fears that Greece could default on its debts and fall out of the eurozone.Back in June, Chinese premier Wen Jiabao said China could offer \"a helping hand\" to Europe by investing in sovereign bonds. Analysts, though, questioned whether China would provide a significant amount of funding for troubled European countries.\"We have heard this story before with regard to the likes of Spanish and Portuguese bonds and in the end it was the European Central Bank buying and EU bailouts that seemed to have taken place rather than anything with a Chinese influence,\" said Gary Jenkins, head of fixed income research at Evolution Securities. \"If it really came to pass then it would provide an immediate confidence boost. I just won't hold my breath.\"Silvio Berlusconi's government is pushing an austerity budget through parliament in an effort to cut its deficit and persuade the financial markets that it remains solid. But the plan has been dogged by political infighting.Robert O'Daly of the Economist Intelligence Unit warned that a deal with China would only buy Italy limited time.\"To restore market confidence the Italian government will have to put aside its internal wrangling to implement the programme of fiscal austerity presented to parliament on 1 September and at the same time come up with a coherent medium-term strategy to improve the country's dismal economic growth performance,\" O'Daly said.\"Given the differences within the ruling coalition and prime minister Berlusconi's ongoing problems with the judiciary that does not seem likely to happen,\" he added.News of the talks sparked a rally in Asia, where Japan's Nikkei closed nearly 1% higher. But European markets saw further losses, with the FTSE 100 down 44 points at 5084 in mid-morning trading.In the bond markets, the yield \u2013 interest rate \u2013 on 10-year Greek debt hit a new record high of 25% in early trading. UK government bonds rose in value again, pushing down the yields on the 10-year gilt to another record low of 2.175%.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Business", "China", "World news", "Italy", "Europe", "Greece", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China in talks over buying Italian debt"},{"date": "2011-09-27T15:28:55Z", "country": "china", "content": "Here's a business-lounge scary story. In 1994, Warner Bros was feeling very pleased with itself. It had just finalised a joint venture with the Chinese government to bring the splendours of multiplex cinema to the country. And the terms were good: a 70/30 profit split in favour of the Americans. Building began, but several months later, strange tidings arrived at Warner HQ. The arrangement had been reviewed: still favouring Warner, but now to the tune of 51/49. There was confusion and disbelief in California, but work continued. The eighth cinema was ready when the inevitable happened: the Chinese authorities decided that foreign companies could not own cinemas. The split was arbitrarily reversed 49/51, leaving Beijing with its hands on the curtain cords of several million dollars' worth of chipper new multiplexes.The moral? China has \"opened up\" before. This summer, an opening appeared again. Two Hollywood companies looked to have cracked it: signing production agreements with Chinese companies allowing them to bypass the dreaded quota limiting foreign film releases to 20 a year. Relativity Media, Ryan Kavanaugh's vibrant mini-studio, got the golden ticket: a partnership with state-owned distributor Huaxia  to make \"Chinese-based material with global appeal\". Legendary Pictures (who have funded many of Warner Bros' bigger recent releases, including 300 and Inception) have teamed up with China's largest private media company, Huayi Brothers, to form Legendary East. The new outfit is going to produce English-language films that package up Chinese culture for a global audience.The most optimistic view of the split this time is 50/50. The American companies get a peek into the high-walled Chinese playground; China gets an injection of Hollywood storytelling pep, marketing savvy and global distribution that might help its film industry kick on. Despite the endless barrage of coverage declaring the 21st century Beijing-owned, Chinese cinema isn't flourishing, numerically at least. Official figures claim 400 films a year, but the real figure is supposed to be between 50 and 100; putting them on a par with countries like Russia, Denmark and Mexico. Its labyrinthine censorship practices tend to favour stodgy historical epics, like Red Cliff, The Warlords and Confucius, which don't seem likely to satisfy its growing film audience for long: box office boomed by a staggering 60% in 2010, up to $1.5bn.This might look like a green light for Hollywood. But Screen International's Liz Shackleton had some advice for Legendary and Relativity in a recent article: \"If China wants you in, you're in, and if it wants you out, there's not much you can do about it. But even those who are 'in' need to be wary. China has a habit of inviting companies to manufacture in the country, learning all their processes, and then setting off on its own with very successful imitations.\"It's certainly in China's best interests to appear open at the moment: the World Trade Organisation ruled that it had to scrap the quota in March. No official announcements have been made, but the Legendary and Relativity arrangements (along with other isolated co-productions, like Zhang Yimou's The 13 Women of Nanjing  and Sony's Karate Kid remake, that get special treatment) at least give the impression that Beijing is starting to chill out.But it's tougher to gauge how enthusiastic the Chinese film industry truly is about co-operation. Nothing communicates that more forcefully than the opaque standards of the quota. It was announced that Relativity, through its partners, would be able to release its own movies outside of the quota; legally, as foreign productions, they should be subject to it. Very confusing. Legendary East, technically a Chinese company, will be exempt from the requirements \u2013 but that looks like less of a coup when you consider the rules were often bent anyway. As Shackleton points out, there have sometimes been more than 20 foreign releases, and the system could be played through skilful lobbying: Rupert Murdoch managed to secure a wide release for Titanic in 1998 by screening it privately for the then-president Jiang Zemin; the premier's personal endorsement eventually went on the movie posters.To be blunt, only China has access to the whole rulebook. Some commentators thought the quota would simply be slowly increased by, say, 10 films a year \u2013 but this summer's deals look like the Communist party want to play the \u00e9minence grise game, and keep things vague. It's understandable that Beijing wants to keep a grip on its own film market, which is as vulnerable to Hollywood as any other country (the US already takes a 50% share with its 20 films); but its plans for Chinese-flavoured mass-market movies also look like the opening moves in a soft-power chess game. Legendary and Relativity need to be aware. It could be a brave new era for them or history could be repeating itself. Typical: all you want is to make movies, and everything gets geopolitical on your ass.What global box-office stories should we be writing about? How does Hollywood hawk its wares in your country? Let us know in the comments below \u2026", "tags": ["World cinema", "Film", "Culture", "China", "Film industry", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Has Hollywood cracked China?"},{"date": "2011-07-26T10:27:52Z", "country": "china", "content": "Police have told cafes, hotels and other businesses in central Beijing to install surveillance technology for Wi-Fi users or face fines and possible closure, in a further tightening of internet controls.China has the world's largest and most sophisticated web censorship and monitoring system, which it has tightened still further after the Middle Eastern uprisings. Measures included blocking major virtual private networks, which allow people to evade internet controls.The new software, which costs about 20,000 yuan (\u00a31,900), allows officials to check the identities of users and monitor their activity. Businesses that fail to comply face a fine of the same size and could have their licences revoked.Strict controls already apply at internet cafes, which poorer people rely on for access.It is unclear how strictly the measures will be enforced, and it appears that only Dongcheng district has told owners of the regulations. A staff member at its internet security unit said the initiative was city-wide, but Beijing police headquarters had not responded to a faxed query at time of writing.The Dongcheng police officer added: \"This regulation is made to enhance internet security and to assist public security bureaux to break criminal cases. Details of implementation are confidential.\"According to the New York Times, a notice from the district office said the measure would tackle offenders seeking to \"conduct blackmail, traffic goods, gamble, propagate damaging information and spread computer viruses\".\"This is undoubtedly an invasion of Wi-Fi users' privacy,\" said Jason Chen, a 22-year-old Beijing resident.\"We have already felt the restriction on university campuses, since they have always been monitored. But this time, the control is stretching to cafes and people's feeling of violation is sharper. If cafes cancel their Wi-Fi I will care a lot, and I believe young people will react strongly.\"Some venues in Dongcheng complained they were already losing custom after cutting off Wi-Fi.\"It is just unbelievable. Customers are not happy either,\" said Leona Zhang, manager of the Contempio bar.\"Some owners simply think this is for the public security bureaux to make money from us. The charge is the same regardless of size, even for small ones with only two or three tables.\"Businesses in other parts of Beijing said they had not heard of the measure.\"If the regulation was implemented here, it would struggle to be accepted. The cost is too high,\" said a worker at the New Seven Day Bar in Haidian.\"Furthermore, there is also the privacy of our customers to protect.\"", "tags": ["China", "Wi-Fi", "Internet", "Technology", "Censorship", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Surveillance"], "title": "China boosts internet surveillance"},{"date": "2011-07-23T22:35:05Z", "country": "china", "content": "At least 32 people have died after a high speed train crashed into a stalled train in China's eastern province of Zhejiang on Saturday, causing four carriages to fall off a bridge.Another 200 people have been taken to hospital following the accident which occurred after the first train lost power due to a lightning strike and was then hit from the back by another bullet train following it, according to state television.A preliminary investigation by the Zhejiang provincial government showed that four coaches of the moving train fell off the viaduct, the official Xinhua news agency reported. The cars plunged about 20-30 metres from the elevated section of track.Several other carriages were derailed in the accident near Wenzhou, 860 miles south of Beijing. Both trains were headed for the coastal city of Fuzhou; one from Beijing, the other from Zhejiang's provincial capital, Hangzhou.\"The train suddenly shook violently, casting luggage all around,\" Xinhua quoted survivor Liu Hongtao as saying. \"Passengers cried for help but no crew responded.\"The total power failure rendered useless an electronic safety system designed to warn following trains of stalled trains on the tracks and automatically halt them before a collision can occur.Railways minister Sheng Guangzu ordered an in-depth investigation of the accident.China's government has spent billions of dollars improving the railway network of the world's most populous country and has said it plans to spend $120bn (\u00a373bn) a year over several years on railway construction.The vast network has been hit by a series of scandals and safety incidents over the past few months. Three railway officials have been investigated for corruption so far this year, and in February Liu Zhijun was sacked as railways minister for \"serious disciplinary violations\". He had spearheaded the investment drive into the rail sector over the last decade.The flagship Beijing-Shanghai high-speed rail line has been plagued by power outages, leaving passengers stranded for hours on stuffy trains at least three times since it was opened earlier this month.The link is the latest and most celebrated portion of a network the government hopes will cover over 28,000 miles by the end of 2015.", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Train crashes"], "title": "China train crash kills 32"},{"date": "2011-09-29T05:29:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has started the countdown to launch a space station module, the Tiangong-1, that is the first step in establishing a permanent manned presence in orbit above the Earth.A Long March II 2F rocket is scheduled to take off soon after 1.16pm GMT on Thursday from Jiuquan in Gansu province, carrying the laboratory to an altitude of 220 miles (350km) where it will circle the planet unmanned while its systems are tested.A crew capsule, Shenzhou 8, is to be launched unmanned in November and carry out docking tests with the Tiangong, which means \"heavenly palace\".Manned missions by Chinese astronauts, known as yuhangyuans, are to begin in 2012, according to Chinese state media.A backup, Tiangong 2, has been built in case Thursday's launch goes wrong.China's eventual aim is to build a 60-tonne space station within 10 years \u2013 it will be about a sixth the mass of the International Space Station.The Tiangong is believed by international analysts to include docking technology based on Russian designs.Yang Liwei in 2003 became the first man put in orbit by China's space programme, circling the Earth 14 times during 21 hours in orbit. Five others have followed him in crews of up to three at a time.The diving bell-shaped Shenzou is similar to the Russian Soyuz but as a whole the Shenzou is larger and has greater flying capabilities in orbit.", "tags": ["China", "Space", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China space station module awaits launch"},{"date": "2011-09-13T08:21:21Z", "country": "china", "content": "China could step in to help rescue Europe from its debt crisis after holding top-level talks with Italy's finance minister.The Italian government confirmed on Tuesday that Giulio Tremonti had met the head of China Investment Corp, the country's sovereign wealth fund, in Rome last week. It is understood that Tremonti asked the Chinese delegation to consider buying Italy's sovereign debt and making strategic investments in Italian companies.The Italian treasury declined to give details of the meeting, but traders were encouraged that Beijing might use its financial muscle to help the eurozone.News of the talks came as Barack Obama warned that the world economy would suffer badly if Spain and Italy were sucked deeper into the European debt crisis.\"Greece is obviously the biggest immediate problem. And they're taking some steps to slow the crisis but not solve the crisis,\" Obama said, at a roundtable of Spanish journalists in Washington. \"The bigger problem is what happens in Spain and Italy if the markets keep making a run at those very big countries,\" the president added.Despite confirmation of the China talks, Italy was forced to pay record levels when it sold \u20ac6.5bn (\u00a35.6bn) of government debt on Tuesday morning. The yield, or interest rate, on Italian five-year bonds rose to 5.6% at the auction, a euro-era record.Italy's borrowing costs had also jumped on Monday amid fears that Greece could default on its debts and fall out of the eurozone.Back in June, Chinese premier Wen Jiabao said China could offer \"a helping hand\" to Europe by investing in sovereign bonds. Analysts, though, questioned whether China would provide a significant amount of funding for troubled European countries.\"We have heard this story before with regard to the likes of Spanish and Portuguese bonds and in the end it was the European Central Bank buying and EU bailouts that seemed to have taken place rather than anything with a Chinese influence,\" said Gary Jenkins, head of fixed income research at Evolution Securities. \"If it really came to pass then it would provide an immediate confidence boost. I just won't hold my breath.\"Silvio Berlusconi's government is pushing an austerity budget through parliament in an effort to cut its deficit and persuade the financial markets that it remains solid. But the plan has been dogged by political infighting.Robert O'Daly of the Economist Intelligence Unit warned that a deal with China would only buy Italy limited time.\"To restore market confidence the Italian government will have to put aside its internal wrangling to implement the programme of fiscal austerity presented to parliament on 1 September and at the same time come up with a coherent medium-term strategy to improve the country's dismal economic growth performance,\" O'Daly said.\"Given the differences within the ruling coalition and prime minister Berlusconi's ongoing problems with the judiciary that does not seem likely to happen,\" he added.News of the talks sparked a rally in Asia, where Japan's Nikkei closed nearly 1% higher. But European markets saw further losses, with the FTSE 100 down 44 points at 5084 in mid-morning trading.In the bond markets, the yield \u2013 interest rate \u2013 on 10-year Greek debt hit a new record high of 25% in early trading. UK government bonds rose in value again, pushing down the yields on the 10-year gilt to another record low of 2.175%.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Business", "China", "World news", "Italy", "Europe", "Greece", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China in talks over buying Italian debt"},{"date": "2011-08-22T19:00:01Z", "country": "china", "content": "Peter Chi knows he has to cut back on his drinking. It is not much fun at the best of times, and the worst have included hospitalisation \u2013 after drinking fake alcohol \u2013 and the numerous evenings where he has passed out at the table.\"No one likes binge drinking, but it's not under your control,\" he complains. \"Of course I don't like it, but there's nothing I can do.\"Chi, from north-eastern Liaoning province, is not an alcoholic. Nor is he a party animal, despite his four-times-a-week binges. But as a respectable headteacher in his 40s, he feels he has little choice but to indulge \u2013 or risk harming his career. In the west, binge drinking is associated with young men and women spilling out of pubs and clubs in the early hours of the mornings. But in China drinkers are older and \u2013 in many cases \u2013 drinking not just for fun but for career reasons.\"If I drink, it doesn't necessarily help me get promoted. But if I don't, it's less likely that I will be. So I must drink, even if it's not pleasant at all,\" Chi explains. \"People want to show they are forthright and try to get along with others \u2026 It's very normal to get an order to drink from bosses.\"In fact, some job adverts explicitly demand applicants who can hold their alcohol. \"Candidates with good drinking capacity will be prioritised,\" says one for the Hunan Zhike Public Security Engineering Company, an alarms and surveillance technology firm that is seeking a business manager.\"The job is to develop business through establishing closer connections with our clients. Drinking is a big part of the work,\" explains the recruiter, adding that the successful candidate will need to handle 250 to 500ml of baijiu at a time.The clear spirit, usually made from sorghum, ranges in price from as little as five yuan \u2013 less than 50p \u2013 to tens of thousands of yuan for vintage bottles of the best brands. It is a staple of formal or celebratory dinners, often coupled with beer. It is also notorious for causing inebriation, since it is 80 to 120 proof and frequently consumed in large quantities.Alcohol certainly greases the wheels of business in the west, too, but people can usually stop after one or two glasses. In China, the opposite is often true: it is much easier to refuse an initial drink than to stop once you have started. Foreigners are not immune to the pressure \u2013 one friend recalls being poured half pints of baijiu by an overly hospitable local official, who paused briefly to vomit before topping up his glass again.Drinking to develop and cement relationships has a long history in China. \"When one drinks with a friend, a thousand cups are not enough,\" runs one traditional saying. That does not mean bingeing has been the norm: in the 1980s, a study of Chinese classical poetry concluded that heavy drinking had been in and out of favour over the years. Experts have suggested that Chinese habits \u2013 consuming alcohol with food, playing drinking games and toasting in a highly ritualised fashion \u2013 served to regularise alcohol intake and limit drunkenness.But in the last few decades, consumption has soared, fuelled by increased personal freedoms and rising incomes. \"Excessive drinking, frequent drinking [five to seven days a week] and binge drinking behaviour have reached epidemic proportions among current drinkers in China,\" warned a study published in the journal Addiction last month.The authors, led by Li Yichong of the National Centre for Chronic and Non-Communicable Disease Control, found that only 56% of men and 15% of women drink. But of those, 57% of men and 27% of women binge.Bingeing and excessive drinking were most common in men aged between 35 and 44; and frequent drinking increased significantly with age, whereas in \"Anglo\" cultures alcohol consumption usually peaks in the late 20s or early 30s, the paper noted.The government has pledged to tackle driving under the influence \u2013 police caught half a million drunkards behind the wheel last year \u2013 but bingeing does not otherwise seem to lead to much anti-social behaviour in China. You won't see people urinating on the street, or the equivalent of beered-up rugby lads pulling down their trousers for the delectation of passing women.So the main issue is the damage that drinkers are doing to themselves. China is still some way off the cirrhosis death rates seen in Britain or Japan, according to World Health Organisation figures.And in more cosmopolitan and educated circles, over-indulgence is often regarded as somewhat d\u00e9class\u00e9 \u2013 suggesting that perhaps heavy drinking may fall out of fashion again. Anecdotally, friends suggest that people are increasingly willing to make excuses on health grounds or to surreptitiously dilute their baijiu with a mineral water bottle hidden under the table.But such changes can't come fast enough for China's reluctant drinkers. \"Health is a big concern of mine. Even if things seem OK right now, there'll definitely be problems when I get to 30 or 40 if I keep drinking like this,\" says Bruce Wang, a young businessman whose work involves regular boozing sessions with clients.\"I get drunk a lot \u2026 It's impossible to feel good about it.\"Additional research by Han Cheng. Aditya Chakrabortty is away.", "tags": ["China", "Alcohol", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "The rise of binge drinking in China | Tania Branigan"},{"date": "2011-12-30T07:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "In late November, Hagos Sequar, an Ethiopian industry ministry official, told me how the ministry had just landed a major Chinese investment. During his August trip to China, Prime Minister Meles Zenawi had visited the Pearl River Delta, where higher costs are driving manufacturers offshore. He invited the Chinese to visit Ethiopia. Among other things, he wanted them to look at a leather-based industrial cluster Ethiopia is developing to better utilise its livestock population, Africa's largest.Within weeks, a delegation of Chinese had arrived in Addis Ababa. Among them was the privately owned Huajian Group, which produces 16 million pairs of leather shoes per year. By October, Huajian had decided to invest in Ethiopia.Huajian's general manager arrived in November, hired 50 Ethiopian technical school graduates and sent them off to China for training. \"The machinery is already on its way to Djibouti,\" Hagos told me, adding that Huajian was leasing a factory site in Ethiopia's Eastern (Oriental) Industrial Zone.Ethiopia at the end of 2011 reflects the surprising complexity of Chinese engagement in Africa, how it differs from that of the west and \u2013 possibly of more significance to the continent \u2013 how central is the role of African agency.China is no newcomer here. In 1972, China financed the Wereta-Weldiya road across Ethiopia's Rift Valley. Between 1998 and 2004, the Chinese contributed 15% of the cost of Addis Ababa's ring road (Ethiopia paid the rest).But when Ethiopia's economy began to grow at Asian rates, the Chinese saw increased opportunities. Not all were in the direction stereotypes would have predicted. For example, while Chinese petroleum companies have done work in Ethiopia, this has been largely under contract for others. Rather, the Chinese unleashed a variety of state-sponsored tools for building economic ties.Most of these do not involve China's relatively modest foreign aid. The China-Africa Development Fund has made equity investments in a leather factory, a cement plant and a glass factory. The Eastern Industrial Zone is being built and run by a private Chinese company, with performance-based subsidies from China's economic co-operation fund. Chinese telecoms firm ZTE teamed up with Chinese banks to provide a $1.5bn commercial suppliers' credit (at Libor \u2013 interbank lending rate \u2013 plus 1.5%) to roll out cellular and 3G service across the country.A preferential export buyer's credit is paying more than half of the $612m cost of a toll road that will cut travel time between Addis Ababa and Djibouti, whose port now provides landlocked Ethiopia access to the sea. The tolls will help repay the loan over 20 years.In a twist on a financing mode popularised in Angola, where infrastructure loans were repaid with Angola's main export, oil, China's Eximbank has provided commercial loans for electricity distribution lines, cement factories, and other projects, secured (and repaid) out of Ethiopia's exports to China: mainly sesame seeds. These credits are known (in Chinese) as hu hui dai kuan, or \"mutual benefit loan\". A Chinese company gets the business, Ethiopia gets finance for development: at Libor plus 2-3%.To the west, Ethiopia typically conjures up images of drought and starving children; we want to save Ethiopia. To the Chinese, Ethiopia, with a fast growing economy and 90 million consumers, looks like good business. While western official engagement with Ethiopia's authoritarian but development-minded government is still largely limited to foreign aid, the Chinese offer multiple ways to make co-operation economically attractive.Of course, there are downsides to China's engagement. Chinese banks continue to show interest in financing large hydro-power projects with daunting environmental and social challenges. Reportedly, working conditions were so onerous at the enormous African Union complex being built by a Chinese firm that some Chinese workers went on strike. Ethiopians complain about the quality of ZTE's technology.At the same time, observers sometimes accuse China of sins it has yet to commit. In July, G\u00fcnter Nooke, German chancellor Angela Merkel's Africa adviser, said that in Ethiopia, China's \"large-scale land purchases\" were partly to blame for a devastating famine. Ironically, the California-based Oakland Institute had reported just a month earlier, after an exhaustive four-month \"land grab\" study, that the Chinese were \"surprisingly absent from land investment deals\" in Ethiopia.Ethiopia is clearly in charge in this engagement. Chinese traders and shopkeepers, who are fixtures across many African cities, are absent on Ethiopia's streets. These positions are reserved for locals, and Ethiopians enforce their rules.And China listens. A decade ago, Chinese companies building the ring road complained they couldn't find enough local skilled workers. The Ethiopian government asked China to establish a college that would focus on construction and industrial skills. The fully-equipped Ethio-China Polytechnic College opened in late 2009, funded by Chinese aid. Chinese professors offer a two-year degree with Chinese language classes alongside engineering skills. Chinese companies are waiting to hire its first crop of graduates.\u2022 Deborah Br\u00e4utigam is senior research fellow at the International Food Policy Research Institute, and professor at American University's School of International Service, international development programme. She is the author of The Dragon's Gift\u2022 Corrections: This article was amended on 24 January 2012. The original had spelled the name of the Ethiopian industry ministry official as 'Habros Seguar.' It also said 'China's state-owned petroleum companies explored for oil, but they departed empty-handed'. This statement has been changed. The author has since noted that while Chinese oil companies have done work in Ethiopia, this has been largely under contract for others.", "tags": ["Global development", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Ethiopia", "Africa", "Business", "Transparency"], "title": "Ethiopia's partnership with China | Deborah Br\u00e4utigam"},{"date": "2011-12-30T07:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "In late November, Hagos Sequar, an Ethiopian industry ministry official, told me how the ministry had just landed a major Chinese investment. During his August trip to China, Prime Minister Meles Zenawi had visited the Pearl River Delta, where higher costs are driving manufacturers offshore. He invited the Chinese to visit Ethiopia. Among other things, he wanted them to look at a leather-based industrial cluster Ethiopia is developing to better utilise its livestock population, Africa's largest.Within weeks, a delegation of Chinese had arrived in Addis Ababa. Among them was the privately owned Huajian Group, which produces 16 million pairs of leather shoes per year. By October, Huajian had decided to invest in Ethiopia.Huajian's general manager arrived in November, hired 50 Ethiopian technical school graduates and sent them off to China for training. \"The machinery is already on its way to Djibouti,\" Hagos told me, adding that Huajian was leasing a factory site in Ethiopia's Eastern (Oriental) Industrial Zone.Ethiopia at the end of 2011 reflects the surprising complexity of Chinese engagement in Africa, how it differs from that of the west and \u2013 possibly of more significance to the continent \u2013 how central is the role of African agency.China is no newcomer here. In 1972, China financed the Wereta-Weldiya road across Ethiopia's Rift Valley. Between 1998 and 2004, the Chinese contributed 15% of the cost of Addis Ababa's ring road (Ethiopia paid the rest).But when Ethiopia's economy began to grow at Asian rates, the Chinese saw increased opportunities. Not all were in the direction stereotypes would have predicted. For example, while Chinese petroleum companies have done work in Ethiopia, this has been largely under contract for others. Rather, the Chinese unleashed a variety of state-sponsored tools for building economic ties.Most of these do not involve China's relatively modest foreign aid. The China-Africa Development Fund has made equity investments in a leather factory, a cement plant and a glass factory. The Eastern Industrial Zone is being built and run by a private Chinese company, with performance-based subsidies from China's economic co-operation fund. Chinese telecoms firm ZTE teamed up with Chinese banks to provide a $1.5bn commercial suppliers' credit (at Libor \u2013 interbank lending rate \u2013 plus 1.5%) to roll out cellular and 3G service across the country.A preferential export buyer's credit is paying more than half of the $612m cost of a toll road that will cut travel time between Addis Ababa and Djibouti, whose port now provides landlocked Ethiopia access to the sea. The tolls will help repay the loan over 20 years.In a twist on a financing mode popularised in Angola, where infrastructure loans were repaid with Angola's main export, oil, China's Eximbank has provided commercial loans for electricity distribution lines, cement factories, and other projects, secured (and repaid) out of Ethiopia's exports to China: mainly sesame seeds. These credits are known (in Chinese) as hu hui dai kuan, or \"mutual benefit loan\". A Chinese company gets the business, Ethiopia gets finance for development: at Libor plus 2-3%.To the west, Ethiopia typically conjures up images of drought and starving children; we want to save Ethiopia. To the Chinese, Ethiopia, with a fast growing economy and 90 million consumers, looks like good business. While western official engagement with Ethiopia's authoritarian but development-minded government is still largely limited to foreign aid, the Chinese offer multiple ways to make co-operation economically attractive.Of course, there are downsides to China's engagement. Chinese banks continue to show interest in financing large hydro-power projects with daunting environmental and social challenges. Reportedly, working conditions were so onerous at the enormous African Union complex being built by a Chinese firm that some Chinese workers went on strike. Ethiopians complain about the quality of ZTE's technology.At the same time, observers sometimes accuse China of sins it has yet to commit. In July, G\u00fcnter Nooke, German chancellor Angela Merkel's Africa adviser, said that in Ethiopia, China's \"large-scale land purchases\" were partly to blame for a devastating famine. Ironically, the California-based Oakland Institute had reported just a month earlier, after an exhaustive four-month \"land grab\" study, that the Chinese were \"surprisingly absent from land investment deals\" in Ethiopia.Ethiopia is clearly in charge in this engagement. Chinese traders and shopkeepers, who are fixtures across many African cities, are absent on Ethiopia's streets. These positions are reserved for locals, and Ethiopians enforce their rules.And China listens. A decade ago, Chinese companies building the ring road complained they couldn't find enough local skilled workers. The Ethiopian government asked China to establish a college that would focus on construction and industrial skills. The fully-equipped Ethio-China Polytechnic College opened in late 2009, funded by Chinese aid. Chinese professors offer a two-year degree with Chinese language classes alongside engineering skills. Chinese companies are waiting to hire its first crop of graduates.\u2022 Deborah Br\u00e4utigam is senior research fellow at the International Food Policy Research Institute, and professor at American University's School of International Service, international development programme. She is the author of The Dragon's Gift\u2022 Corrections: This article was amended on 24 January 2012. The original had spelled the name of the Ethiopian industry ministry official as 'Habros Seguar.' It also said 'China's state-owned petroleum companies explored for oil, but they departed empty-handed'. This statement has been changed. The author has since noted that while Chinese oil companies have done work in Ethiopia, this has been largely under contract for others.", "tags": ["Global development", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Ethiopia", "Africa", "Business", "Transparency"], "title": "Ethiopia's partnership with China | Deborah Br\u00e4utigam"},{"date": "2011-12-30T18:30:12Z", "country": "china", "content": "Nearly 40 years after the cold grey soil of the moon was last disturbed by bounding humans, the lunar surface has become an official destination once more.Tentative plans to land a man on the moon have been outlined in a document published by the Chinese government that confirms the nation's intention to become a major spacefaring nation. Officials in China have spoken before of their hopes for a crewed lunar mission, but the government document is the first to state the aim as a formal goal for the nation's space agency.Details of the plan \u2013 which would see a human walk on the moon for the first time since Apollo 17 in December 1972 \u2013 were published in a white paper that serves as a roadmap for the next five years of Chinese space exploration.It says China will \"push forward human spaceflight projects and make new technological breakthroughs, creating a foundation for future human spaceflight\", and describes preparations for orbiting laboratories, space stations and studies that underpin \"the preliminary plan for a human lunar landing\".\"Chinese people are the same as people around the world. When looking up at the starry sky, we are full of longing and yearning for the vast universe,\" Zhang Wei, an official with China's National Space Administration, told the Financial Times. Chinese officials have not announced a firm timetable, but the mission could take place around 2025, the chief scientist of the space programme, Ye Peijian, said last year.China's ambitions in space contrast with an uncomfortable hiatus for the US space agency, Nasa, which lost its ability to send astronauts into space with the retirement of the space shuttle in July.Under proposals adopted by the Obama administration, US astronauts must now hitch lifts into space aboard Russian Soyuz rockets until private US space companies can take on the job. The strategy aims to leave Nasa free to focus on a new rocket to take astronauts beyond Earth orbit, with a mission to an asteroid on the agenda.China's rise as a spacefaring nation owes much to a steady programme of investment and development that dates back to the 1950s. While the US and Russia are decades ahead in terms of technology and expertise, both nations' space programmes have suffered from changing priorities of successive governments.\"Assuming the Chinese are serious, which recent history suggests they are, then I believe the impact could be game-changing,\" said Professor Ken Pounds, a leading figure in UK space research at Leicester University.\"Modern communications will allow the experience of operating on the lunar surface to be delivered into the classroom and living room, with enormous socio-political impact around the world.\"Pounds added that the scientific \u2013 and commercial \u2013 potential of a serious programme of lunar research was likely to be substantial, and go far beyond what was achieved with Apollo.Another consequence of a Chinese moonshot might be to reinvigorate Nasa's vision of human space exploration.\"It is very unlikely the US would not respond,\" said Pounds. \"That could breathe new life into their space exploration programme, which is currently going nowhere.\"In 2003 China became only the third country to send one of its citizens into space independently. Yang Liwei's mission aboard Shenzhou 5 was followed by another substantial milestone when Zhai Zhigang conducted the first Chinese spacewalk five years later.China has mapped the moon from two orbiting spacecraft and has plans for an unmanned lander, a lunar rover, and a mission to return 2kg of moon rock to Earth by 2020. The space agency this year demonstrated in-orbit rendezvous and docking tests between two spacecraft, laying the foundations for the construction of a future space station.The emergence of China as a spacefaring nation has the potential to threaten US prestige in space, by inspiring a new generation with headline-grabbing crewed missions.The former chief administrator at Nasa, Michael Griffin, criticised the Obama administration's plans as an admission that the space agency would not be a major player in human missions into space for the foreseeable future.Speaking before the Senate in 2007, Griffin said he admired China's achievements in space, but was concerned the country would \"leave the United States in its wake\".1959 The Soviet Luna 2 probe became the first artificial object to land on the moonwhen it slammed into the surface in a choreographed collision.1962 Nasa's Ranger 4 probe was designed to take snapshots of the moon before hitting the surface but failed to return any data after a computer failure.1966 The Soviet Luna 9 became the first probe to land softly on the moon and send back pictures from the surface.1966 Nasa's Surveyor 1 probe touched down on the moon soon after Luna 9 and returned more than 11,000 pictures of the moon.1969 Nasa's Apollo 11 mission puts man on the moon for the first time. Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin lead the way for five more moon landings.1970 With Luna 16, the Soviets pull off the first automated moon landing and rock sample return mission.1971 Nasa's Apollo 15 crew become the fourth to land on the moon and the first to explore the surface aboard a rover.1972 Apollo 17 marks the last time humans walked on the moon.1976 Luna 24 was the last spacecraft to land softly on the moon. The probe collected 170 grams of lunar dirt and sent it back to Earth.2009 Nasa's Lunar Crater Observation and Sensing Satellite (Lcross) searched for water on the moon and ended its mission by following a spent rocket stage into a crater near the lunar south pole. Lcross took pictures of the impact, which threw up clouds of lunar debris.2009 China's first lunar probe, Chang'e 1, named after a goddess who flies to the moon, was steered into the lunar surface at the end of its mission. Future probes will aim for a soft landing.", "tags": ["Space", "The moon", "Nasa", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "US news"], "title": "China plans manned moon mission"},{"date": "2011-12-30T07:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "In late November, Hagos Sequar, an Ethiopian industry ministry official, told me how the ministry had just landed a major Chinese investment. During his August trip to China, Prime Minister Meles Zenawi had visited the Pearl River Delta, where higher costs are driving manufacturers offshore. He invited the Chinese to visit Ethiopia. Among other things, he wanted them to look at a leather-based industrial cluster Ethiopia is developing to better utilise its livestock population, Africa's largest.Within weeks, a delegation of Chinese had arrived in Addis Ababa. Among them was the privately owned Huajian Group, which produces 16 million pairs of leather shoes per year. By October, Huajian had decided to invest in Ethiopia.Huajian's general manager arrived in November, hired 50 Ethiopian technical school graduates and sent them off to China for training. \"The machinery is already on its way to Djibouti,\" Hagos told me, adding that Huajian was leasing a factory site in Ethiopia's Eastern (Oriental) Industrial Zone.Ethiopia at the end of 2011 reflects the surprising complexity of Chinese engagement in Africa, how it differs from that of the west and \u2013 possibly of more significance to the continent \u2013 how central is the role of African agency.China is no newcomer here. In 1972, China financed the Wereta-Weldiya road across Ethiopia's Rift Valley. Between 1998 and 2004, the Chinese contributed 15% of the cost of Addis Ababa's ring road (Ethiopia paid the rest).But when Ethiopia's economy began to grow at Asian rates, the Chinese saw increased opportunities. Not all were in the direction stereotypes would have predicted. For example, while Chinese petroleum companies have done work in Ethiopia, this has been largely under contract for others. Rather, the Chinese unleashed a variety of state-sponsored tools for building economic ties.Most of these do not involve China's relatively modest foreign aid. The China-Africa Development Fund has made equity investments in a leather factory, a cement plant and a glass factory. The Eastern Industrial Zone is being built and run by a private Chinese company, with performance-based subsidies from China's economic co-operation fund. Chinese telecoms firm ZTE teamed up with Chinese banks to provide a $1.5bn commercial suppliers' credit (at Libor \u2013 interbank lending rate \u2013 plus 1.5%) to roll out cellular and 3G service across the country.A preferential export buyer's credit is paying more than half of the $612m cost of a toll road that will cut travel time between Addis Ababa and Djibouti, whose port now provides landlocked Ethiopia access to the sea. The tolls will help repay the loan over 20 years.In a twist on a financing mode popularised in Angola, where infrastructure loans were repaid with Angola's main export, oil, China's Eximbank has provided commercial loans for electricity distribution lines, cement factories, and other projects, secured (and repaid) out of Ethiopia's exports to China: mainly sesame seeds. These credits are known (in Chinese) as hu hui dai kuan, or \"mutual benefit loan\". A Chinese company gets the business, Ethiopia gets finance for development: at Libor plus 2-3%.To the west, Ethiopia typically conjures up images of drought and starving children; we want to save Ethiopia. To the Chinese, Ethiopia, with a fast growing economy and 90 million consumers, looks like good business. While western official engagement with Ethiopia's authoritarian but development-minded government is still largely limited to foreign aid, the Chinese offer multiple ways to make co-operation economically attractive.Of course, there are downsides to China's engagement. Chinese banks continue to show interest in financing large hydro-power projects with daunting environmental and social challenges. Reportedly, working conditions were so onerous at the enormous African Union complex being built by a Chinese firm that some Chinese workers went on strike. Ethiopians complain about the quality of ZTE's technology.At the same time, observers sometimes accuse China of sins it has yet to commit. In July, G\u00fcnter Nooke, German chancellor Angela Merkel's Africa adviser, said that in Ethiopia, China's \"large-scale land purchases\" were partly to blame for a devastating famine. Ironically, the California-based Oakland Institute had reported just a month earlier, after an exhaustive four-month \"land grab\" study, that the Chinese were \"surprisingly absent from land investment deals\" in Ethiopia.Ethiopia is clearly in charge in this engagement. Chinese traders and shopkeepers, who are fixtures across many African cities, are absent on Ethiopia's streets. These positions are reserved for locals, and Ethiopians enforce their rules.And China listens. A decade ago, Chinese companies building the ring road complained they couldn't find enough local skilled workers. The Ethiopian government asked China to establish a college that would focus on construction and industrial skills. The fully-equipped Ethio-China Polytechnic College opened in late 2009, funded by Chinese aid. Chinese professors offer a two-year degree with Chinese language classes alongside engineering skills. Chinese companies are waiting to hire its first crop of graduates.\u2022 Deborah Br\u00e4utigam is senior research fellow at the International Food Policy Research Institute, and professor at American University's School of International Service, international development programme. She is the author of The Dragon's Gift\u2022 Corrections: This article was amended on 24 January 2012. The original had spelled the name of the Ethiopian industry ministry official as 'Habros Seguar.' It also said 'China's state-owned petroleum companies explored for oil, but they departed empty-handed'. This statement has been changed. The author has since noted that while Chinese oil companies have done work in Ethiopia, this has been largely under contract for others.", "tags": ["Global development", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Ethiopia", "Africa", "Business", "Transparency"], "title": "Ethiopia's partnership with China | Deborah Br\u00e4utigam"},{"date": "2011-12-30T18:30:12Z", "country": "china", "content": "Nearly 40 years after the cold grey soil of the moon was last disturbed by bounding humans, the lunar surface has become an official destination once more.Tentative plans to land a man on the moon have been outlined in a document published by the Chinese government that confirms the nation's intention to become a major spacefaring nation. Officials in China have spoken before of their hopes for a crewed lunar mission, but the government document is the first to state the aim as a formal goal for the nation's space agency.Details of the plan \u2013 which would see a human walk on the moon for the first time since Apollo 17 in December 1972 \u2013 were published in a white paper that serves as a roadmap for the next five years of Chinese space exploration.It says China will \"push forward human spaceflight projects and make new technological breakthroughs, creating a foundation for future human spaceflight\", and describes preparations for orbiting laboratories, space stations and studies that underpin \"the preliminary plan for a human lunar landing\".\"Chinese people are the same as people around the world. When looking up at the starry sky, we are full of longing and yearning for the vast universe,\" Zhang Wei, an official with China's National Space Administration, told the Financial Times. Chinese officials have not announced a firm timetable, but the mission could take place around 2025, the chief scientist of the space programme, Ye Peijian, said last year.China's ambitions in space contrast with an uncomfortable hiatus for the US space agency, Nasa, which lost its ability to send astronauts into space with the retirement of the space shuttle in July.Under proposals adopted by the Obama administration, US astronauts must now hitch lifts into space aboard Russian Soyuz rockets until private US space companies can take on the job. The strategy aims to leave Nasa free to focus on a new rocket to take astronauts beyond Earth orbit, with a mission to an asteroid on the agenda.China's rise as a spacefaring nation owes much to a steady programme of investment and development that dates back to the 1950s. While the US and Russia are decades ahead in terms of technology and expertise, both nations' space programmes have suffered from changing priorities of successive governments.\"Assuming the Chinese are serious, which recent history suggests they are, then I believe the impact could be game-changing,\" said Professor Ken Pounds, a leading figure in UK space research at Leicester University.\"Modern communications will allow the experience of operating on the lunar surface to be delivered into the classroom and living room, with enormous socio-political impact around the world.\"Pounds added that the scientific \u2013 and commercial \u2013 potential of a serious programme of lunar research was likely to be substantial, and go far beyond what was achieved with Apollo.Another consequence of a Chinese moonshot might be to reinvigorate Nasa's vision of human space exploration.\"It is very unlikely the US would not respond,\" said Pounds. \"That could breathe new life into their space exploration programme, which is currently going nowhere.\"In 2003 China became only the third country to send one of its citizens into space independently. Yang Liwei's mission aboard Shenzhou 5 was followed by another substantial milestone when Zhai Zhigang conducted the first Chinese spacewalk five years later.China has mapped the moon from two orbiting spacecraft and has plans for an unmanned lander, a lunar rover, and a mission to return 2kg of moon rock to Earth by 2020. The space agency this year demonstrated in-orbit rendezvous and docking tests between two spacecraft, laying the foundations for the construction of a future space station.The emergence of China as a spacefaring nation has the potential to threaten US prestige in space, by inspiring a new generation with headline-grabbing crewed missions.The former chief administrator at Nasa, Michael Griffin, criticised the Obama administration's plans as an admission that the space agency would not be a major player in human missions into space for the foreseeable future.Speaking before the Senate in 2007, Griffin said he admired China's achievements in space, but was concerned the country would \"leave the United States in its wake\".1959 The Soviet Luna 2 probe became the first artificial object to land on the moonwhen it slammed into the surface in a choreographed collision.1962 Nasa's Ranger 4 probe was designed to take snapshots of the moon before hitting the surface but failed to return any data after a computer failure.1966 The Soviet Luna 9 became the first probe to land softly on the moon and send back pictures from the surface.1966 Nasa's Surveyor 1 probe touched down on the moon soon after Luna 9 and returned more than 11,000 pictures of the moon.1969 Nasa's Apollo 11 mission puts man on the moon for the first time. Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin lead the way for five more moon landings.1970 With Luna 16, the Soviets pull off the first automated moon landing and rock sample return mission.1971 Nasa's Apollo 15 crew become the fourth to land on the moon and the first to explore the surface aboard a rover.1972 Apollo 17 marks the last time humans walked on the moon.1976 Luna 24 was the last spacecraft to land softly on the moon. The probe collected 170 grams of lunar dirt and sent it back to Earth.2009 Nasa's Lunar Crater Observation and Sensing Satellite (Lcross) searched for water on the moon and ended its mission by following a spent rocket stage into a crater near the lunar south pole. Lcross took pictures of the impact, which threw up clouds of lunar debris.2009 China's first lunar probe, Chang'e 1, named after a goddess who flies to the moon, was steered into the lunar surface at the end of its mission. Future probes will aim for a soft landing.", "tags": ["Space", "The moon", "Nasa", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "US news"], "title": "China plans manned moon mission"},{"date": "2011-12-01T16:12:46Z", "country": "china", "content": "China is a one-trick pony. Without the US and Europe to soak up its factory output, it doesn't have a growth plan. Except that isn't quite true. Like Japan in the 1980s and the UK in the decade before the boom, it has a liking for property investment. As a sideline to its enormous manufacturing sector, there is an ever-expanding apartment and office-building craze.A reliance on manufacturing and property in Beijing is as unbalanced as the UK's binge on property and financial services until 2007. No wonder the Chinese miracle is, temporarily at least, coming to a halt.Growth has slowed, with a drop in manufacturing output chiefly to blame. Part of the fall can be blamed on high inflation, which has eaten into corporate profits and personal incomes and wealth. Policies to tackle rising prices have had little impact on the way households view the future and inflation expectations remain high. This has the effect of discouraging investment and consumption.But the bigger cause of the slowdown is the eurozone crisis and the way it has panicked all areas of the world economy to stop spending. Fears that Italy could be allowed to collapse, much in the way Lehman Brothers was in 2008, has stopped anyone with money from spending, compounding the problem that there are many people and countries without any money, only debts.The US, some European countries and the world's central bankers have pleaded with China to wean itself off cheap exports. The last 15 years of export sales have resulted in a massive foreign exchange hoard in dollars, euros and to some extent sterling.In the boom the Chinese happily pumped these funds back into the banking system for it to be lent to western consumers. However, this neat little circle of western consumers borrowing to buy Chinese goods has dislocated.Lombard Street Research, an economic analysis firm, says China will have a hard landing in 2012. It points out that indexes of production are now at levels last seen before the crash.Beijing's response this week was to loosen monetary policy. It told Chinese banks they could lend more to businesses, many of which are now struggling to cope with a sharp loss of export business.But will it tackle the fundamental problem of an indebted Europe unable to pay for Chinese goods? The signs are not good.We need to go back to the postwar period to find a similar landscape of economic imbalance. In the aftermath of war, Europe was broke and unlikely to buy US goods without a boost from Washington. President Truman instigated the Marshall plan of aid and investment. Then President Eisenhower wrote off most of Europe's debts. In particular, another nation with a huge export surplus, Germany, had all its debts wiped clean.The Chinese refuse to believe their role is similar to Uncle Sam's. To some extent they are right. Europe today may be in debt, but it remains fully functioning and rich. The problems in Italy and Britain are as much about the wealthy refusing to pay higher taxes towards deficit reduction as they are about the total sums involved. Beijing feels the postwar analogy falls flat for just this reason.Martin Feldstein, a professor of economics at Harvard University and Ronald Reagan's chief economic adviser, agrees that a Marshall plan is unnecessary. He said recently that Italy, the achilles heel of Europe, can sort out its own problems without going cap in hand to Beijing, Brussels or anyone else. Feldstein is a supporter of Greece leaving the euro and of major reforms to spur growth in Italy, Portugal and Spain.The problem is that markets are running out of patience. And who are the investors in those markets? The big US pension funds, the oil-rich sovereign wealth funds of the Middle East, Norway and South America, and the massive Chinese investment funds. If these groups backed off, just for a little while, to give the Italians a chance, a Lehman-style crisis could be averted.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Business", "International trade", "Global recession", "Economics", "Global economy"], "title": "China cannot be Europe's saviour | Phil Inman"},{"date": "2011-12-30T07:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "In late November, Hagos Sequar, an Ethiopian industry ministry official, told me how the ministry had just landed a major Chinese investment. During his August trip to China, Prime Minister Meles Zenawi had visited the Pearl River Delta, where higher costs are driving manufacturers offshore. He invited the Chinese to visit Ethiopia. Among other things, he wanted them to look at a leather-based industrial cluster Ethiopia is developing to better utilise its livestock population, Africa's largest.Within weeks, a delegation of Chinese had arrived in Addis Ababa. Among them was the privately owned Huajian Group, which produces 16 million pairs of leather shoes per year. By October, Huajian had decided to invest in Ethiopia.Huajian's general manager arrived in November, hired 50 Ethiopian technical school graduates and sent them off to China for training. \"The machinery is already on its way to Djibouti,\" Hagos told me, adding that Huajian was leasing a factory site in Ethiopia's Eastern (Oriental) Industrial Zone.Ethiopia at the end of 2011 reflects the surprising complexity of Chinese engagement in Africa, how it differs from that of the west and \u2013 possibly of more significance to the continent \u2013 how central is the role of African agency.China is no newcomer here. In 1972, China financed the Wereta-Weldiya road across Ethiopia's Rift Valley. Between 1998 and 2004, the Chinese contributed 15% of the cost of Addis Ababa's ring road (Ethiopia paid the rest).But when Ethiopia's economy began to grow at Asian rates, the Chinese saw increased opportunities. Not all were in the direction stereotypes would have predicted. For example, while Chinese petroleum companies have done work in Ethiopia, this has been largely under contract for others. Rather, the Chinese unleashed a variety of state-sponsored tools for building economic ties.Most of these do not involve China's relatively modest foreign aid. The China-Africa Development Fund has made equity investments in a leather factory, a cement plant and a glass factory. The Eastern Industrial Zone is being built and run by a private Chinese company, with performance-based subsidies from China's economic co-operation fund. Chinese telecoms firm ZTE teamed up with Chinese banks to provide a $1.5bn commercial suppliers' credit (at Libor \u2013 interbank lending rate \u2013 plus 1.5%) to roll out cellular and 3G service across the country.A preferential export buyer's credit is paying more than half of the $612m cost of a toll road that will cut travel time between Addis Ababa and Djibouti, whose port now provides landlocked Ethiopia access to the sea. The tolls will help repay the loan over 20 years.In a twist on a financing mode popularised in Angola, where infrastructure loans were repaid with Angola's main export, oil, China's Eximbank has provided commercial loans for electricity distribution lines, cement factories, and other projects, secured (and repaid) out of Ethiopia's exports to China: mainly sesame seeds. These credits are known (in Chinese) as hu hui dai kuan, or \"mutual benefit loan\". A Chinese company gets the business, Ethiopia gets finance for development: at Libor plus 2-3%.To the west, Ethiopia typically conjures up images of drought and starving children; we want to save Ethiopia. To the Chinese, Ethiopia, with a fast growing economy and 90 million consumers, looks like good business. While western official engagement with Ethiopia's authoritarian but development-minded government is still largely limited to foreign aid, the Chinese offer multiple ways to make co-operation economically attractive.Of course, there are downsides to China's engagement. Chinese banks continue to show interest in financing large hydro-power projects with daunting environmental and social challenges. Reportedly, working conditions were so onerous at the enormous African Union complex being built by a Chinese firm that some Chinese workers went on strike. Ethiopians complain about the quality of ZTE's technology.At the same time, observers sometimes accuse China of sins it has yet to commit. In July, G\u00fcnter Nooke, German chancellor Angela Merkel's Africa adviser, said that in Ethiopia, China's \"large-scale land purchases\" were partly to blame for a devastating famine. Ironically, the California-based Oakland Institute had reported just a month earlier, after an exhaustive four-month \"land grab\" study, that the Chinese were \"surprisingly absent from land investment deals\" in Ethiopia.Ethiopia is clearly in charge in this engagement. Chinese traders and shopkeepers, who are fixtures across many African cities, are absent on Ethiopia's streets. These positions are reserved for locals, and Ethiopians enforce their rules.And China listens. A decade ago, Chinese companies building the ring road complained they couldn't find enough local skilled workers. The Ethiopian government asked China to establish a college that would focus on construction and industrial skills. The fully-equipped Ethio-China Polytechnic College opened in late 2009, funded by Chinese aid. Chinese professors offer a two-year degree with Chinese language classes alongside engineering skills. Chinese companies are waiting to hire its first crop of graduates.\u2022 Deborah Br\u00e4utigam is senior research fellow at the International Food Policy Research Institute, and professor at American University's School of International Service, international development programme. She is the author of The Dragon's Gift\u2022 Corrections: This article was amended on 24 January 2012. The original had spelled the name of the Ethiopian industry ministry official as 'Habros Seguar.' It also said 'China's state-owned petroleum companies explored for oil, but they departed empty-handed'. This statement has been changed. The author has since noted that while Chinese oil companies have done work in Ethiopia, this has been largely under contract for others.", "tags": ["Global development", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Ethiopia", "Africa", "Business", "Transparency"], "title": "Ethiopia's partnership with China | Deborah Br\u00e4utigam"},{"date": "2011-12-30T18:30:12Z", "country": "china", "content": "Nearly 40 years after the cold grey soil of the moon was last disturbed by bounding humans, the lunar surface has become an official destination once more.Tentative plans to land a man on the moon have been outlined in a document published by the Chinese government that confirms the nation's intention to become a major spacefaring nation. Officials in China have spoken before of their hopes for a crewed lunar mission, but the government document is the first to state the aim as a formal goal for the nation's space agency.Details of the plan \u2013 which would see a human walk on the moon for the first time since Apollo 17 in December 1972 \u2013 were published in a white paper that serves as a roadmap for the next five years of Chinese space exploration.It says China will \"push forward human spaceflight projects and make new technological breakthroughs, creating a foundation for future human spaceflight\", and describes preparations for orbiting laboratories, space stations and studies that underpin \"the preliminary plan for a human lunar landing\".\"Chinese people are the same as people around the world. When looking up at the starry sky, we are full of longing and yearning for the vast universe,\" Zhang Wei, an official with China's National Space Administration, told the Financial Times. Chinese officials have not announced a firm timetable, but the mission could take place around 2025, the chief scientist of the space programme, Ye Peijian, said last year.China's ambitions in space contrast with an uncomfortable hiatus for the US space agency, Nasa, which lost its ability to send astronauts into space with the retirement of the space shuttle in July.Under proposals adopted by the Obama administration, US astronauts must now hitch lifts into space aboard Russian Soyuz rockets until private US space companies can take on the job. The strategy aims to leave Nasa free to focus on a new rocket to take astronauts beyond Earth orbit, with a mission to an asteroid on the agenda.China's rise as a spacefaring nation owes much to a steady programme of investment and development that dates back to the 1950s. While the US and Russia are decades ahead in terms of technology and expertise, both nations' space programmes have suffered from changing priorities of successive governments.\"Assuming the Chinese are serious, which recent history suggests they are, then I believe the impact could be game-changing,\" said Professor Ken Pounds, a leading figure in UK space research at Leicester University.\"Modern communications will allow the experience of operating on the lunar surface to be delivered into the classroom and living room, with enormous socio-political impact around the world.\"Pounds added that the scientific \u2013 and commercial \u2013 potential of a serious programme of lunar research was likely to be substantial, and go far beyond what was achieved with Apollo.Another consequence of a Chinese moonshot might be to reinvigorate Nasa's vision of human space exploration.\"It is very unlikely the US would not respond,\" said Pounds. \"That could breathe new life into their space exploration programme, which is currently going nowhere.\"In 2003 China became only the third country to send one of its citizens into space independently. Yang Liwei's mission aboard Shenzhou 5 was followed by another substantial milestone when Zhai Zhigang conducted the first Chinese spacewalk five years later.China has mapped the moon from two orbiting spacecraft and has plans for an unmanned lander, a lunar rover, and a mission to return 2kg of moon rock to Earth by 2020. The space agency this year demonstrated in-orbit rendezvous and docking tests between two spacecraft, laying the foundations for the construction of a future space station.The emergence of China as a spacefaring nation has the potential to threaten US prestige in space, by inspiring a new generation with headline-grabbing crewed missions.The former chief administrator at Nasa, Michael Griffin, criticised the Obama administration's plans as an admission that the space agency would not be a major player in human missions into space for the foreseeable future.Speaking before the Senate in 2007, Griffin said he admired China's achievements in space, but was concerned the country would \"leave the United States in its wake\".1959 The Soviet Luna 2 probe became the first artificial object to land on the moonwhen it slammed into the surface in a choreographed collision.1962 Nasa's Ranger 4 probe was designed to take snapshots of the moon before hitting the surface but failed to return any data after a computer failure.1966 The Soviet Luna 9 became the first probe to land softly on the moon and send back pictures from the surface.1966 Nasa's Surveyor 1 probe touched down on the moon soon after Luna 9 and returned more than 11,000 pictures of the moon.1969 Nasa's Apollo 11 mission puts man on the moon for the first time. Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin lead the way for five more moon landings.1970 With Luna 16, the Soviets pull off the first automated moon landing and rock sample return mission.1971 Nasa's Apollo 15 crew become the fourth to land on the moon and the first to explore the surface aboard a rover.1972 Apollo 17 marks the last time humans walked on the moon.1976 Luna 24 was the last spacecraft to land softly on the moon. The probe collected 170 grams of lunar dirt and sent it back to Earth.2009 Nasa's Lunar Crater Observation and Sensing Satellite (Lcross) searched for water on the moon and ended its mission by following a spent rocket stage into a crater near the lunar south pole. Lcross took pictures of the impact, which threw up clouds of lunar debris.2009 China's first lunar probe, Chang'e 1, named after a goddess who flies to the moon, was steered into the lunar surface at the end of its mission. Future probes will aim for a soft landing.", "tags": ["Space", "The moon", "Nasa", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "US news"], "title": "China plans manned moon mission"},{"date": "2011-12-01T16:12:46Z", "country": "china", "content": "China is a one-trick pony. Without the US and Europe to soak up its factory output, it doesn't have a growth plan. Except that isn't quite true. Like Japan in the 1980s and the UK in the decade before the boom, it has a liking for property investment. As a sideline to its enormous manufacturing sector, there is an ever-expanding apartment and office-building craze.A reliance on manufacturing and property in Beijing is as unbalanced as the UK's binge on property and financial services until 2007. No wonder the Chinese miracle is, temporarily at least, coming to a halt.Growth has slowed, with a drop in manufacturing output chiefly to blame. Part of the fall can be blamed on high inflation, which has eaten into corporate profits and personal incomes and wealth. Policies to tackle rising prices have had little impact on the way households view the future and inflation expectations remain high. This has the effect of discouraging investment and consumption.But the bigger cause of the slowdown is the eurozone crisis and the way it has panicked all areas of the world economy to stop spending. Fears that Italy could be allowed to collapse, much in the way Lehman Brothers was in 2008, has stopped anyone with money from spending, compounding the problem that there are many people and countries without any money, only debts.The US, some European countries and the world's central bankers have pleaded with China to wean itself off cheap exports. The last 15 years of export sales have resulted in a massive foreign exchange hoard in dollars, euros and to some extent sterling.In the boom the Chinese happily pumped these funds back into the banking system for it to be lent to western consumers. However, this neat little circle of western consumers borrowing to buy Chinese goods has dislocated.Lombard Street Research, an economic analysis firm, says China will have a hard landing in 2012. It points out that indexes of production are now at levels last seen before the crash.Beijing's response this week was to loosen monetary policy. It told Chinese banks they could lend more to businesses, many of which are now struggling to cope with a sharp loss of export business.But will it tackle the fundamental problem of an indebted Europe unable to pay for Chinese goods? The signs are not good.We need to go back to the postwar period to find a similar landscape of economic imbalance. In the aftermath of war, Europe was broke and unlikely to buy US goods without a boost from Washington. President Truman instigated the Marshall plan of aid and investment. Then President Eisenhower wrote off most of Europe's debts. In particular, another nation with a huge export surplus, Germany, had all its debts wiped clean.The Chinese refuse to believe their role is similar to Uncle Sam's. To some extent they are right. Europe today may be in debt, but it remains fully functioning and rich. The problems in Italy and Britain are as much about the wealthy refusing to pay higher taxes towards deficit reduction as they are about the total sums involved. Beijing feels the postwar analogy falls flat for just this reason.Martin Feldstein, a professor of economics at Harvard University and Ronald Reagan's chief economic adviser, agrees that a Marshall plan is unnecessary. He said recently that Italy, the achilles heel of Europe, can sort out its own problems without going cap in hand to Beijing, Brussels or anyone else. Feldstein is a supporter of Greece leaving the euro and of major reforms to spur growth in Italy, Portugal and Spain.The problem is that markets are running out of patience. And who are the investors in those markets? The big US pension funds, the oil-rich sovereign wealth funds of the Middle East, Norway and South America, and the massive Chinese investment funds. If these groups backed off, just for a little while, to give the Italians a chance, a Lehman-style crisis could be averted.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Business", "International trade", "Global recession", "Economics", "Global economy"], "title": "China cannot be Europe's saviour | Phil Inman"},{"date": "2011-11-24T10:36:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "As several readers pointed out in the comments to my last post, though it's great for finding stuff to add to your collection, eBay isn't the place to bag a bargain when it comes to vintage china. Most of what you'll buy will be sold for roughly market price \u2013 if something seems cheap, that's probably because it has flaws or damage. If you can't afford a SylvaC bunny, Clarice Cliff cruet set or Midwinter Zambesi tea service, there are some other cheaper options \u2013 makes of china that so far haven't obtained the same level of popularity. This is the stuff you can sometimes still pick up for a few pounds in a charity shop or at a flea market or car boot sale. But given the ubiquity and low price of this china, it's even more important to find flawless pieces. Buy because you like it, will treasure and use it, but not for its market value \u2013 sometimes a firm such as SylvaC will become a collector's must-have, but don't rely on this happening to your chosen pattern. Take the designs of Edward Thomas Radford, for instance. I love the matt glaze and handpainted flower patterns of this maker but for reasons I can't quite fathom they seem to sell rather cheaply - particularly for the later stuff, usually marked \"E Radford\". I am particularly fond of the anemone pattern. From the 1960s, Toni Raymond's kitchenware is also fun and dirt cheap \u2013 I am after one of the owl-shaped holders for string and scissors.After my first post one reader professed to be a collector of Hornsea, and I can see why \u2013 it's classic 1970s stuff from designer John Clappison that's still cheap to buy and tough enough to be used on a daily basis. There are designs called Heirloom (which actually began production in 1967), Bronte or Saffron to choose from. I picked up this pair of Heirloom vinaigrettes (pictured) at my local charity shop for \u00a31 the other day. If you prefer the 1960s, Summit is a Hornsea design from this era that's not highly valued right now. (Although being more of a fan of the 1950s and 1960s I prefer Clappison's earlier work, including this stunning Aphrodite vase, which unfortunately isn't so easy on the purse).My final tip is the designs of Kathie Winkle, who worked for James Broadhurst and Sons in the 1950s and 60s producing mass-market china which was sold under the slogan \"Beauty on a Budget\". If you're anything like me, this is the stuff your nan probably had in her kitchen cupboards. I am a particular fan of the pattern Palma Nova. Hornsea Heirloom coffee pot (3 days to go). Hornsea Summit salt and pepper shakers (3 days to go). Radford candle holders pair (3 days to go).Next time: vintage china with a festive theme", "tags": ["Homes", "Life and style", "Interiors"], "title": "Collecting china: bagging a bargain"},{"date": "2011-12-30T07:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "In late November, Hagos Sequar, an Ethiopian industry ministry official, told me how the ministry had just landed a major Chinese investment. During his August trip to China, Prime Minister Meles Zenawi had visited the Pearl River Delta, where higher costs are driving manufacturers offshore. He invited the Chinese to visit Ethiopia. Among other things, he wanted them to look at a leather-based industrial cluster Ethiopia is developing to better utilise its livestock population, Africa's largest.Within weeks, a delegation of Chinese had arrived in Addis Ababa. Among them was the privately owned Huajian Group, which produces 16 million pairs of leather shoes per year. By October, Huajian had decided to invest in Ethiopia.Huajian's general manager arrived in November, hired 50 Ethiopian technical school graduates and sent them off to China for training. \"The machinery is already on its way to Djibouti,\" Hagos told me, adding that Huajian was leasing a factory site in Ethiopia's Eastern (Oriental) Industrial Zone.Ethiopia at the end of 2011 reflects the surprising complexity of Chinese engagement in Africa, how it differs from that of the west and \u2013 possibly of more significance to the continent \u2013 how central is the role of African agency.China is no newcomer here. In 1972, China financed the Wereta-Weldiya road across Ethiopia's Rift Valley. Between 1998 and 2004, the Chinese contributed 15% of the cost of Addis Ababa's ring road (Ethiopia paid the rest).But when Ethiopia's economy began to grow at Asian rates, the Chinese saw increased opportunities. Not all were in the direction stereotypes would have predicted. For example, while Chinese petroleum companies have done work in Ethiopia, this has been largely under contract for others. Rather, the Chinese unleashed a variety of state-sponsored tools for building economic ties.Most of these do not involve China's relatively modest foreign aid. The China-Africa Development Fund has made equity investments in a leather factory, a cement plant and a glass factory. The Eastern Industrial Zone is being built and run by a private Chinese company, with performance-based subsidies from China's economic co-operation fund. Chinese telecoms firm ZTE teamed up with Chinese banks to provide a $1.5bn commercial suppliers' credit (at Libor \u2013 interbank lending rate \u2013 plus 1.5%) to roll out cellular and 3G service across the country.A preferential export buyer's credit is paying more than half of the $612m cost of a toll road that will cut travel time between Addis Ababa and Djibouti, whose port now provides landlocked Ethiopia access to the sea. The tolls will help repay the loan over 20 years.In a twist on a financing mode popularised in Angola, where infrastructure loans were repaid with Angola's main export, oil, China's Eximbank has provided commercial loans for electricity distribution lines, cement factories, and other projects, secured (and repaid) out of Ethiopia's exports to China: mainly sesame seeds. These credits are known (in Chinese) as hu hui dai kuan, or \"mutual benefit loan\". A Chinese company gets the business, Ethiopia gets finance for development: at Libor plus 2-3%.To the west, Ethiopia typically conjures up images of drought and starving children; we want to save Ethiopia. To the Chinese, Ethiopia, with a fast growing economy and 90 million consumers, looks like good business. While western official engagement with Ethiopia's authoritarian but development-minded government is still largely limited to foreign aid, the Chinese offer multiple ways to make co-operation economically attractive.Of course, there are downsides to China's engagement. Chinese banks continue to show interest in financing large hydro-power projects with daunting environmental and social challenges. Reportedly, working conditions were so onerous at the enormous African Union complex being built by a Chinese firm that some Chinese workers went on strike. Ethiopians complain about the quality of ZTE's technology.At the same time, observers sometimes accuse China of sins it has yet to commit. In July, G\u00fcnter Nooke, German chancellor Angela Merkel's Africa adviser, said that in Ethiopia, China's \"large-scale land purchases\" were partly to blame for a devastating famine. Ironically, the California-based Oakland Institute had reported just a month earlier, after an exhaustive four-month \"land grab\" study, that the Chinese were \"surprisingly absent from land investment deals\" in Ethiopia.Ethiopia is clearly in charge in this engagement. Chinese traders and shopkeepers, who are fixtures across many African cities, are absent on Ethiopia's streets. These positions are reserved for locals, and Ethiopians enforce their rules.And China listens. A decade ago, Chinese companies building the ring road complained they couldn't find enough local skilled workers. The Ethiopian government asked China to establish a college that would focus on construction and industrial skills. The fully-equipped Ethio-China Polytechnic College opened in late 2009, funded by Chinese aid. Chinese professors offer a two-year degree with Chinese language classes alongside engineering skills. Chinese companies are waiting to hire its first crop of graduates.\u2022 Deborah Br\u00e4utigam is senior research fellow at the International Food Policy Research Institute, and professor at American University's School of International Service, international development programme. She is the author of The Dragon's Gift\u2022 Corrections: This article was amended on 24 January 2012. The original had spelled the name of the Ethiopian industry ministry official as 'Habros Seguar.' It also said 'China's state-owned petroleum companies explored for oil, but they departed empty-handed'. This statement has been changed. The author has since noted that while Chinese oil companies have done work in Ethiopia, this has been largely under contract for others.", "tags": ["Global development", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Ethiopia", "Africa", "Business", "Transparency"], "title": "Ethiopia's partnership with China | Deborah Br\u00e4utigam"},{"date": "2011-12-30T18:30:12Z", "country": "china", "content": "Nearly 40 years after the cold grey soil of the moon was last disturbed by bounding humans, the lunar surface has become an official destination once more.Tentative plans to land a man on the moon have been outlined in a document published by the Chinese government that confirms the nation's intention to become a major spacefaring nation. Officials in China have spoken before of their hopes for a crewed lunar mission, but the government document is the first to state the aim as a formal goal for the nation's space agency.Details of the plan \u2013 which would see a human walk on the moon for the first time since Apollo 17 in December 1972 \u2013 were published in a white paper that serves as a roadmap for the next five years of Chinese space exploration.It says China will \"push forward human spaceflight projects and make new technological breakthroughs, creating a foundation for future human spaceflight\", and describes preparations for orbiting laboratories, space stations and studies that underpin \"the preliminary plan for a human lunar landing\".\"Chinese people are the same as people around the world. When looking up at the starry sky, we are full of longing and yearning for the vast universe,\" Zhang Wei, an official with China's National Space Administration, told the Financial Times. Chinese officials have not announced a firm timetable, but the mission could take place around 2025, the chief scientist of the space programme, Ye Peijian, said last year.China's ambitions in space contrast with an uncomfortable hiatus for the US space agency, Nasa, which lost its ability to send astronauts into space with the retirement of the space shuttle in July.Under proposals adopted by the Obama administration, US astronauts must now hitch lifts into space aboard Russian Soyuz rockets until private US space companies can take on the job. The strategy aims to leave Nasa free to focus on a new rocket to take astronauts beyond Earth orbit, with a mission to an asteroid on the agenda.China's rise as a spacefaring nation owes much to a steady programme of investment and development that dates back to the 1950s. While the US and Russia are decades ahead in terms of technology and expertise, both nations' space programmes have suffered from changing priorities of successive governments.\"Assuming the Chinese are serious, which recent history suggests they are, then I believe the impact could be game-changing,\" said Professor Ken Pounds, a leading figure in UK space research at Leicester University.\"Modern communications will allow the experience of operating on the lunar surface to be delivered into the classroom and living room, with enormous socio-political impact around the world.\"Pounds added that the scientific \u2013 and commercial \u2013 potential of a serious programme of lunar research was likely to be substantial, and go far beyond what was achieved with Apollo.Another consequence of a Chinese moonshot might be to reinvigorate Nasa's vision of human space exploration.\"It is very unlikely the US would not respond,\" said Pounds. \"That could breathe new life into their space exploration programme, which is currently going nowhere.\"In 2003 China became only the third country to send one of its citizens into space independently. Yang Liwei's mission aboard Shenzhou 5 was followed by another substantial milestone when Zhai Zhigang conducted the first Chinese spacewalk five years later.China has mapped the moon from two orbiting spacecraft and has plans for an unmanned lander, a lunar rover, and a mission to return 2kg of moon rock to Earth by 2020. The space agency this year demonstrated in-orbit rendezvous and docking tests between two spacecraft, laying the foundations for the construction of a future space station.The emergence of China as a spacefaring nation has the potential to threaten US prestige in space, by inspiring a new generation with headline-grabbing crewed missions.The former chief administrator at Nasa, Michael Griffin, criticised the Obama administration's plans as an admission that the space agency would not be a major player in human missions into space for the foreseeable future.Speaking before the Senate in 2007, Griffin said he admired China's achievements in space, but was concerned the country would \"leave the United States in its wake\".1959 The Soviet Luna 2 probe became the first artificial object to land on the moonwhen it slammed into the surface in a choreographed collision.1962 Nasa's Ranger 4 probe was designed to take snapshots of the moon before hitting the surface but failed to return any data after a computer failure.1966 The Soviet Luna 9 became the first probe to land softly on the moon and send back pictures from the surface.1966 Nasa's Surveyor 1 probe touched down on the moon soon after Luna 9 and returned more than 11,000 pictures of the moon.1969 Nasa's Apollo 11 mission puts man on the moon for the first time. Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin lead the way for five more moon landings.1970 With Luna 16, the Soviets pull off the first automated moon landing and rock sample return mission.1971 Nasa's Apollo 15 crew become the fourth to land on the moon and the first to explore the surface aboard a rover.1972 Apollo 17 marks the last time humans walked on the moon.1976 Luna 24 was the last spacecraft to land softly on the moon. The probe collected 170 grams of lunar dirt and sent it back to Earth.2009 Nasa's Lunar Crater Observation and Sensing Satellite (Lcross) searched for water on the moon and ended its mission by following a spent rocket stage into a crater near the lunar south pole. Lcross took pictures of the impact, which threw up clouds of lunar debris.2009 China's first lunar probe, Chang'e 1, named after a goddess who flies to the moon, was steered into the lunar surface at the end of its mission. Future probes will aim for a soft landing.", "tags": ["Space", "The moon", "Nasa", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "US news"], "title": "China plans manned moon mission"},{"date": "2011-12-01T16:12:46Z", "country": "china", "content": "China is a one-trick pony. Without the US and Europe to soak up its factory output, it doesn't have a growth plan. Except that isn't quite true. Like Japan in the 1980s and the UK in the decade before the boom, it has a liking for property investment. As a sideline to its enormous manufacturing sector, there is an ever-expanding apartment and office-building craze.A reliance on manufacturing and property in Beijing is as unbalanced as the UK's binge on property and financial services until 2007. No wonder the Chinese miracle is, temporarily at least, coming to a halt.Growth has slowed, with a drop in manufacturing output chiefly to blame. Part of the fall can be blamed on high inflation, which has eaten into corporate profits and personal incomes and wealth. Policies to tackle rising prices have had little impact on the way households view the future and inflation expectations remain high. This has the effect of discouraging investment and consumption.But the bigger cause of the slowdown is the eurozone crisis and the way it has panicked all areas of the world economy to stop spending. Fears that Italy could be allowed to collapse, much in the way Lehman Brothers was in 2008, has stopped anyone with money from spending, compounding the problem that there are many people and countries without any money, only debts.The US, some European countries and the world's central bankers have pleaded with China to wean itself off cheap exports. The last 15 years of export sales have resulted in a massive foreign exchange hoard in dollars, euros and to some extent sterling.In the boom the Chinese happily pumped these funds back into the banking system for it to be lent to western consumers. However, this neat little circle of western consumers borrowing to buy Chinese goods has dislocated.Lombard Street Research, an economic analysis firm, says China will have a hard landing in 2012. It points out that indexes of production are now at levels last seen before the crash.Beijing's response this week was to loosen monetary policy. It told Chinese banks they could lend more to businesses, many of which are now struggling to cope with a sharp loss of export business.But will it tackle the fundamental problem of an indebted Europe unable to pay for Chinese goods? The signs are not good.We need to go back to the postwar period to find a similar landscape of economic imbalance. In the aftermath of war, Europe was broke and unlikely to buy US goods without a boost from Washington. President Truman instigated the Marshall plan of aid and investment. Then President Eisenhower wrote off most of Europe's debts. In particular, another nation with a huge export surplus, Germany, had all its debts wiped clean.The Chinese refuse to believe their role is similar to Uncle Sam's. To some extent they are right. Europe today may be in debt, but it remains fully functioning and rich. The problems in Italy and Britain are as much about the wealthy refusing to pay higher taxes towards deficit reduction as they are about the total sums involved. Beijing feels the postwar analogy falls flat for just this reason.Martin Feldstein, a professor of economics at Harvard University and Ronald Reagan's chief economic adviser, agrees that a Marshall plan is unnecessary. He said recently that Italy, the achilles heel of Europe, can sort out its own problems without going cap in hand to Beijing, Brussels or anyone else. Feldstein is a supporter of Greece leaving the euro and of major reforms to spur growth in Italy, Portugal and Spain.The problem is that markets are running out of patience. And who are the investors in those markets? The big US pension funds, the oil-rich sovereign wealth funds of the Middle East, Norway and South America, and the massive Chinese investment funds. If these groups backed off, just for a little while, to give the Italians a chance, a Lehman-style crisis could be averted.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Business", "International trade", "Global recession", "Economics", "Global economy"], "title": "China cannot be Europe's saviour | Phil Inman"},{"date": "2011-11-24T10:36:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "As several readers pointed out in the comments to my last post, though it's great for finding stuff to add to your collection, eBay isn't the place to bag a bargain when it comes to vintage china. Most of what you'll buy will be sold for roughly market price \u2013 if something seems cheap, that's probably because it has flaws or damage. If you can't afford a SylvaC bunny, Clarice Cliff cruet set or Midwinter Zambesi tea service, there are some other cheaper options \u2013 makes of china that so far haven't obtained the same level of popularity. This is the stuff you can sometimes still pick up for a few pounds in a charity shop or at a flea market or car boot sale. But given the ubiquity and low price of this china, it's even more important to find flawless pieces. Buy because you like it, will treasure and use it, but not for its market value \u2013 sometimes a firm such as SylvaC will become a collector's must-have, but don't rely on this happening to your chosen pattern. Take the designs of Edward Thomas Radford, for instance. I love the matt glaze and handpainted flower patterns of this maker but for reasons I can't quite fathom they seem to sell rather cheaply - particularly for the later stuff, usually marked \"E Radford\". I am particularly fond of the anemone pattern. From the 1960s, Toni Raymond's kitchenware is also fun and dirt cheap \u2013 I am after one of the owl-shaped holders for string and scissors.After my first post one reader professed to be a collector of Hornsea, and I can see why \u2013 it's classic 1970s stuff from designer John Clappison that's still cheap to buy and tough enough to be used on a daily basis. There are designs called Heirloom (which actually began production in 1967), Bronte or Saffron to choose from. I picked up this pair of Heirloom vinaigrettes (pictured) at my local charity shop for \u00a31 the other day. If you prefer the 1960s, Summit is a Hornsea design from this era that's not highly valued right now. (Although being more of a fan of the 1950s and 1960s I prefer Clappison's earlier work, including this stunning Aphrodite vase, which unfortunately isn't so easy on the purse).My final tip is the designs of Kathie Winkle, who worked for James Broadhurst and Sons in the 1950s and 60s producing mass-market china which was sold under the slogan \"Beauty on a Budget\". If you're anything like me, this is the stuff your nan probably had in her kitchen cupboards. I am a particular fan of the pattern Palma Nova. Hornsea Heirloom coffee pot (3 days to go). Hornsea Summit salt and pepper shakers (3 days to go). Radford candle holders pair (3 days to go).Next time: vintage china with a festive theme", "tags": ["Homes", "Life and style", "Interiors"], "title": "Collecting china: bagging a bargain"},{"date": "2011-10-13T12:09:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "What China slowdown? We're going gangbusters. That's the rough translation of today's update from Rio Tinto, the big Anglo Australian miner. Chief executive Tom Albanese said:Whilst we are mindful of current market volatility, the fundamentals are holding up well, particularly for bulk-traded commodities. We are operating at full capacity, selling all we produce and our growth programme is on track, supported by the strength of our balance sheet.Not much sign of doubt there. Indeed, Albanese's tone seems to have become more bullish even over the past few weeks. In the middle of September at an investor conference he mentioned that \"in a few cases, customers are asking to reschedule deliveries\". No mention of that in today's update.Rio's confidence, it should be said, is supported by the prices of iron ore and coking coal, the two bulk commodities that represent about 70% of the miner's turnover. While the price of copper has fallen about a third from the recent top, iron ore and coking coal \u2013 feeding the Chinese steel-making industry \u2013 are still priced at close to peak levels.Hold on, though, growth in Chinese trade slowed in September, we also learned today. Of course, a 17% increase in exports from a year ago, and 21% growth in imports from September 2010, can hardly be described as weak. Those figures are certainly not inconsistent with Rio's tale that the great Australia-to-China trade remains strong.It's just that the sense of foreboding around China is hard to shake. The IMF warned today that the eurozone crisis represents a \"severe\" risk for Asia - it has cut its growth forecast for Asia for this year from 6.8% to 6.3%.The progress of Rio's share price (or lack of) this year gives a sense of investors' uncertainty \u2013 down a lot, down some more, up a bit \u2026", "tags": ["Rio Tinto", "China", "Mining", "World news", "Business", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Rio Tinto's great China mystery"},{"date": "2011-12-30T07:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "In late November, Hagos Sequar, an Ethiopian industry ministry official, told me how the ministry had just landed a major Chinese investment. During his August trip to China, Prime Minister Meles Zenawi had visited the Pearl River Delta, where higher costs are driving manufacturers offshore. He invited the Chinese to visit Ethiopia. Among other things, he wanted them to look at a leather-based industrial cluster Ethiopia is developing to better utilise its livestock population, Africa's largest.Within weeks, a delegation of Chinese had arrived in Addis Ababa. Among them was the privately owned Huajian Group, which produces 16 million pairs of leather shoes per year. By October, Huajian had decided to invest in Ethiopia.Huajian's general manager arrived in November, hired 50 Ethiopian technical school graduates and sent them off to China for training. \"The machinery is already on its way to Djibouti,\" Hagos told me, adding that Huajian was leasing a factory site in Ethiopia's Eastern (Oriental) Industrial Zone.Ethiopia at the end of 2011 reflects the surprising complexity of Chinese engagement in Africa, how it differs from that of the west and \u2013 possibly of more significance to the continent \u2013 how central is the role of African agency.China is no newcomer here. In 1972, China financed the Wereta-Weldiya road across Ethiopia's Rift Valley. Between 1998 and 2004, the Chinese contributed 15% of the cost of Addis Ababa's ring road (Ethiopia paid the rest).But when Ethiopia's economy began to grow at Asian rates, the Chinese saw increased opportunities. Not all were in the direction stereotypes would have predicted. For example, while Chinese petroleum companies have done work in Ethiopia, this has been largely under contract for others. Rather, the Chinese unleashed a variety of state-sponsored tools for building economic ties.Most of these do not involve China's relatively modest foreign aid. The China-Africa Development Fund has made equity investments in a leather factory, a cement plant and a glass factory. The Eastern Industrial Zone is being built and run by a private Chinese company, with performance-based subsidies from China's economic co-operation fund. Chinese telecoms firm ZTE teamed up with Chinese banks to provide a $1.5bn commercial suppliers' credit (at Libor \u2013 interbank lending rate \u2013 plus 1.5%) to roll out cellular and 3G service across the country.A preferential export buyer's credit is paying more than half of the $612m cost of a toll road that will cut travel time between Addis Ababa and Djibouti, whose port now provides landlocked Ethiopia access to the sea. The tolls will help repay the loan over 20 years.In a twist on a financing mode popularised in Angola, where infrastructure loans were repaid with Angola's main export, oil, China's Eximbank has provided commercial loans for electricity distribution lines, cement factories, and other projects, secured (and repaid) out of Ethiopia's exports to China: mainly sesame seeds. These credits are known (in Chinese) as hu hui dai kuan, or \"mutual benefit loan\". A Chinese company gets the business, Ethiopia gets finance for development: at Libor plus 2-3%.To the west, Ethiopia typically conjures up images of drought and starving children; we want to save Ethiopia. To the Chinese, Ethiopia, with a fast growing economy and 90 million consumers, looks like good business. While western official engagement with Ethiopia's authoritarian but development-minded government is still largely limited to foreign aid, the Chinese offer multiple ways to make co-operation economically attractive.Of course, there are downsides to China's engagement. Chinese banks continue to show interest in financing large hydro-power projects with daunting environmental and social challenges. Reportedly, working conditions were so onerous at the enormous African Union complex being built by a Chinese firm that some Chinese workers went on strike. Ethiopians complain about the quality of ZTE's technology.At the same time, observers sometimes accuse China of sins it has yet to commit. In July, G\u00fcnter Nooke, German chancellor Angela Merkel's Africa adviser, said that in Ethiopia, China's \"large-scale land purchases\" were partly to blame for a devastating famine. Ironically, the California-based Oakland Institute had reported just a month earlier, after an exhaustive four-month \"land grab\" study, that the Chinese were \"surprisingly absent from land investment deals\" in Ethiopia.Ethiopia is clearly in charge in this engagement. Chinese traders and shopkeepers, who are fixtures across many African cities, are absent on Ethiopia's streets. These positions are reserved for locals, and Ethiopians enforce their rules.And China listens. A decade ago, Chinese companies building the ring road complained they couldn't find enough local skilled workers. The Ethiopian government asked China to establish a college that would focus on construction and industrial skills. The fully-equipped Ethio-China Polytechnic College opened in late 2009, funded by Chinese aid. Chinese professors offer a two-year degree with Chinese language classes alongside engineering skills. Chinese companies are waiting to hire its first crop of graduates.\u2022 Deborah Br\u00e4utigam is senior research fellow at the International Food Policy Research Institute, and professor at American University's School of International Service, international development programme. She is the author of The Dragon's Gift\u2022 Corrections: This article was amended on 24 January 2012. The original had spelled the name of the Ethiopian industry ministry official as 'Habros Seguar.' It also said 'China's state-owned petroleum companies explored for oil, but they departed empty-handed'. This statement has been changed. The author has since noted that while Chinese oil companies have done work in Ethiopia, this has been largely under contract for others.", "tags": ["Global development", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Ethiopia", "Africa", "Business", "Transparency"], "title": "Ethiopia's partnership with China | Deborah Br\u00e4utigam"},{"date": "2011-12-30T18:30:12Z", "country": "china", "content": "Nearly 40 years after the cold grey soil of the moon was last disturbed by bounding humans, the lunar surface has become an official destination once more.Tentative plans to land a man on the moon have been outlined in a document published by the Chinese government that confirms the nation's intention to become a major spacefaring nation. Officials in China have spoken before of their hopes for a crewed lunar mission, but the government document is the first to state the aim as a formal goal for the nation's space agency.Details of the plan \u2013 which would see a human walk on the moon for the first time since Apollo 17 in December 1972 \u2013 were published in a white paper that serves as a roadmap for the next five years of Chinese space exploration.It says China will \"push forward human spaceflight projects and make new technological breakthroughs, creating a foundation for future human spaceflight\", and describes preparations for orbiting laboratories, space stations and studies that underpin \"the preliminary plan for a human lunar landing\".\"Chinese people are the same as people around the world. When looking up at the starry sky, we are full of longing and yearning for the vast universe,\" Zhang Wei, an official with China's National Space Administration, told the Financial Times. Chinese officials have not announced a firm timetable, but the mission could take place around 2025, the chief scientist of the space programme, Ye Peijian, said last year.China's ambitions in space contrast with an uncomfortable hiatus for the US space agency, Nasa, which lost its ability to send astronauts into space with the retirement of the space shuttle in July.Under proposals adopted by the Obama administration, US astronauts must now hitch lifts into space aboard Russian Soyuz rockets until private US space companies can take on the job. The strategy aims to leave Nasa free to focus on a new rocket to take astronauts beyond Earth orbit, with a mission to an asteroid on the agenda.China's rise as a spacefaring nation owes much to a steady programme of investment and development that dates back to the 1950s. While the US and Russia are decades ahead in terms of technology and expertise, both nations' space programmes have suffered from changing priorities of successive governments.\"Assuming the Chinese are serious, which recent history suggests they are, then I believe the impact could be game-changing,\" said Professor Ken Pounds, a leading figure in UK space research at Leicester University.\"Modern communications will allow the experience of operating on the lunar surface to be delivered into the classroom and living room, with enormous socio-political impact around the world.\"Pounds added that the scientific \u2013 and commercial \u2013 potential of a serious programme of lunar research was likely to be substantial, and go far beyond what was achieved with Apollo.Another consequence of a Chinese moonshot might be to reinvigorate Nasa's vision of human space exploration.\"It is very unlikely the US would not respond,\" said Pounds. \"That could breathe new life into their space exploration programme, which is currently going nowhere.\"In 2003 China became only the third country to send one of its citizens into space independently. Yang Liwei's mission aboard Shenzhou 5 was followed by another substantial milestone when Zhai Zhigang conducted the first Chinese spacewalk five years later.China has mapped the moon from two orbiting spacecraft and has plans for an unmanned lander, a lunar rover, and a mission to return 2kg of moon rock to Earth by 2020. The space agency this year demonstrated in-orbit rendezvous and docking tests between two spacecraft, laying the foundations for the construction of a future space station.The emergence of China as a spacefaring nation has the potential to threaten US prestige in space, by inspiring a new generation with headline-grabbing crewed missions.The former chief administrator at Nasa, Michael Griffin, criticised the Obama administration's plans as an admission that the space agency would not be a major player in human missions into space for the foreseeable future.Speaking before the Senate in 2007, Griffin said he admired China's achievements in space, but was concerned the country would \"leave the United States in its wake\".1959 The Soviet Luna 2 probe became the first artificial object to land on the moonwhen it slammed into the surface in a choreographed collision.1962 Nasa's Ranger 4 probe was designed to take snapshots of the moon before hitting the surface but failed to return any data after a computer failure.1966 The Soviet Luna 9 became the first probe to land softly on the moon and send back pictures from the surface.1966 Nasa's Surveyor 1 probe touched down on the moon soon after Luna 9 and returned more than 11,000 pictures of the moon.1969 Nasa's Apollo 11 mission puts man on the moon for the first time. Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin lead the way for five more moon landings.1970 With Luna 16, the Soviets pull off the first automated moon landing and rock sample return mission.1971 Nasa's Apollo 15 crew become the fourth to land on the moon and the first to explore the surface aboard a rover.1972 Apollo 17 marks the last time humans walked on the moon.1976 Luna 24 was the last spacecraft to land softly on the moon. The probe collected 170 grams of lunar dirt and sent it back to Earth.2009 Nasa's Lunar Crater Observation and Sensing Satellite (Lcross) searched for water on the moon and ended its mission by following a spent rocket stage into a crater near the lunar south pole. Lcross took pictures of the impact, which threw up clouds of lunar debris.2009 China's first lunar probe, Chang'e 1, named after a goddess who flies to the moon, was steered into the lunar surface at the end of its mission. Future probes will aim for a soft landing.", "tags": ["Space", "The moon", "Nasa", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "US news"], "title": "China plans manned moon mission"},{"date": "2011-12-01T16:12:46Z", "country": "china", "content": "China is a one-trick pony. Without the US and Europe to soak up its factory output, it doesn't have a growth plan. Except that isn't quite true. Like Japan in the 1980s and the UK in the decade before the boom, it has a liking for property investment. As a sideline to its enormous manufacturing sector, there is an ever-expanding apartment and office-building craze.A reliance on manufacturing and property in Beijing is as unbalanced as the UK's binge on property and financial services until 2007. No wonder the Chinese miracle is, temporarily at least, coming to a halt.Growth has slowed, with a drop in manufacturing output chiefly to blame. Part of the fall can be blamed on high inflation, which has eaten into corporate profits and personal incomes and wealth. Policies to tackle rising prices have had little impact on the way households view the future and inflation expectations remain high. This has the effect of discouraging investment and consumption.But the bigger cause of the slowdown is the eurozone crisis and the way it has panicked all areas of the world economy to stop spending. Fears that Italy could be allowed to collapse, much in the way Lehman Brothers was in 2008, has stopped anyone with money from spending, compounding the problem that there are many people and countries without any money, only debts.The US, some European countries and the world's central bankers have pleaded with China to wean itself off cheap exports. The last 15 years of export sales have resulted in a massive foreign exchange hoard in dollars, euros and to some extent sterling.In the boom the Chinese happily pumped these funds back into the banking system for it to be lent to western consumers. However, this neat little circle of western consumers borrowing to buy Chinese goods has dislocated.Lombard Street Research, an economic analysis firm, says China will have a hard landing in 2012. It points out that indexes of production are now at levels last seen before the crash.Beijing's response this week was to loosen monetary policy. It told Chinese banks they could lend more to businesses, many of which are now struggling to cope with a sharp loss of export business.But will it tackle the fundamental problem of an indebted Europe unable to pay for Chinese goods? The signs are not good.We need to go back to the postwar period to find a similar landscape of economic imbalance. In the aftermath of war, Europe was broke and unlikely to buy US goods without a boost from Washington. President Truman instigated the Marshall plan of aid and investment. Then President Eisenhower wrote off most of Europe's debts. In particular, another nation with a huge export surplus, Germany, had all its debts wiped clean.The Chinese refuse to believe their role is similar to Uncle Sam's. To some extent they are right. Europe today may be in debt, but it remains fully functioning and rich. The problems in Italy and Britain are as much about the wealthy refusing to pay higher taxes towards deficit reduction as they are about the total sums involved. Beijing feels the postwar analogy falls flat for just this reason.Martin Feldstein, a professor of economics at Harvard University and Ronald Reagan's chief economic adviser, agrees that a Marshall plan is unnecessary. He said recently that Italy, the achilles heel of Europe, can sort out its own problems without going cap in hand to Beijing, Brussels or anyone else. Feldstein is a supporter of Greece leaving the euro and of major reforms to spur growth in Italy, Portugal and Spain.The problem is that markets are running out of patience. And who are the investors in those markets? The big US pension funds, the oil-rich sovereign wealth funds of the Middle East, Norway and South America, and the massive Chinese investment funds. If these groups backed off, just for a little while, to give the Italians a chance, a Lehman-style crisis could be averted.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Business", "International trade", "Global recession", "Economics", "Global economy"], "title": "China cannot be Europe's saviour | Phil Inman"},{"date": "2011-11-24T10:36:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "As several readers pointed out in the comments to my last post, though it's great for finding stuff to add to your collection, eBay isn't the place to bag a bargain when it comes to vintage china. Most of what you'll buy will be sold for roughly market price \u2013 if something seems cheap, that's probably because it has flaws or damage. If you can't afford a SylvaC bunny, Clarice Cliff cruet set or Midwinter Zambesi tea service, there are some other cheaper options \u2013 makes of china that so far haven't obtained the same level of popularity. This is the stuff you can sometimes still pick up for a few pounds in a charity shop or at a flea market or car boot sale. But given the ubiquity and low price of this china, it's even more important to find flawless pieces. Buy because you like it, will treasure and use it, but not for its market value \u2013 sometimes a firm such as SylvaC will become a collector's must-have, but don't rely on this happening to your chosen pattern. Take the designs of Edward Thomas Radford, for instance. I love the matt glaze and handpainted flower patterns of this maker but for reasons I can't quite fathom they seem to sell rather cheaply - particularly for the later stuff, usually marked \"E Radford\". I am particularly fond of the anemone pattern. From the 1960s, Toni Raymond's kitchenware is also fun and dirt cheap \u2013 I am after one of the owl-shaped holders for string and scissors.After my first post one reader professed to be a collector of Hornsea, and I can see why \u2013 it's classic 1970s stuff from designer John Clappison that's still cheap to buy and tough enough to be used on a daily basis. There are designs called Heirloom (which actually began production in 1967), Bronte or Saffron to choose from. I picked up this pair of Heirloom vinaigrettes (pictured) at my local charity shop for \u00a31 the other day. If you prefer the 1960s, Summit is a Hornsea design from this era that's not highly valued right now. (Although being more of a fan of the 1950s and 1960s I prefer Clappison's earlier work, including this stunning Aphrodite vase, which unfortunately isn't so easy on the purse).My final tip is the designs of Kathie Winkle, who worked for James Broadhurst and Sons in the 1950s and 60s producing mass-market china which was sold under the slogan \"Beauty on a Budget\". If you're anything like me, this is the stuff your nan probably had in her kitchen cupboards. I am a particular fan of the pattern Palma Nova. Hornsea Heirloom coffee pot (3 days to go). Hornsea Summit salt and pepper shakers (3 days to go). Radford candle holders pair (3 days to go).Next time: vintage china with a festive theme", "tags": ["Homes", "Life and style", "Interiors"], "title": "Collecting china: bagging a bargain"},{"date": "2011-10-13T12:09:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "What China slowdown? We're going gangbusters. That's the rough translation of today's update from Rio Tinto, the big Anglo Australian miner. Chief executive Tom Albanese said:Whilst we are mindful of current market volatility, the fundamentals are holding up well, particularly for bulk-traded commodities. We are operating at full capacity, selling all we produce and our growth programme is on track, supported by the strength of our balance sheet.Not much sign of doubt there. Indeed, Albanese's tone seems to have become more bullish even over the past few weeks. In the middle of September at an investor conference he mentioned that \"in a few cases, customers are asking to reschedule deliveries\". No mention of that in today's update.Rio's confidence, it should be said, is supported by the prices of iron ore and coking coal, the two bulk commodities that represent about 70% of the miner's turnover. While the price of copper has fallen about a third from the recent top, iron ore and coking coal \u2013 feeding the Chinese steel-making industry \u2013 are still priced at close to peak levels.Hold on, though, growth in Chinese trade slowed in September, we also learned today. Of course, a 17% increase in exports from a year ago, and 21% growth in imports from September 2010, can hardly be described as weak. Those figures are certainly not inconsistent with Rio's tale that the great Australia-to-China trade remains strong.It's just that the sense of foreboding around China is hard to shake. The IMF warned today that the eurozone crisis represents a \"severe\" risk for Asia - it has cut its growth forecast for Asia for this year from 6.8% to 6.3%.The progress of Rio's share price (or lack of) this year gives a sense of investors' uncertainty \u2013 down a lot, down some more, up a bit \u2026", "tags": ["Rio Tinto", "China", "Mining", "World news", "Business", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Rio Tinto's great China mystery"},{"date": "2011-12-27T21:57:27Z", "country": "china", "content": "Chinese legislators are considering new visa rules that would introduce fingerprinting of foreigners wanting to work or study in China, according to the official China Daily newspaper.The draft law on entry and exit procedures, for the first time, allows the ministry of public security and the ministry of foreign affairs to put in place a system to gather biological identification data, such as fingerprints, on foreign visitors, the paper said.Yang Huanming, vice-minister of public security, told a bimonthly session of lawmakers discussing the legal changes that fingerprints and other biometric information were \"effective measures\" to speed up arrivals and departures at immigration and customs.The new rules would apply to foreigners seeking residence visas, which cover stays of six months or longer. They would affect business people, foreign journalists and many students. Universities operate two six-month semesters a year so all foreign students, except those on short language courses, would be finger-printed, if the new rules are passed.China's National People's Congress meets annually in March to approve legislation. Laws are amended during the drafting stage but it is unheard of for the NPC to reject legislation.The legal changes could aid Chinese workers in foreign companies by deterring foreign bosses from fleeing abroad without paying wages, according to Peking University labour law expert Ye Jingyi. The problem has become commonplace since the global financial crisis, especially in coastal export zones like Guangdong and Shandong, she told China Daily.\"Such a regulation would be a warning to foreign employers that their freedom to leave the country would be restricted if they did not pay workers on time,\" Ye said, adding: \"It's also good news for workers because the rule could help prevent foreign bosses from maliciously delaying wages.\"The draft is part of a rethink integrating currently separate rules on identification for foreigners and Chinese citizens that aims to \"facilitate exchanges while making sure that those who should not enter are kept out\", said Yang.The US routinely fingerprints foreign visitors as part of the visa application process, part of tighter controls introduced after the 9/11 attacks. Britain has also introduced biometric passports, using facial recognition technology, that reduce waiting time in airports. China Daily pointed to Norway, South Korea and Switzerland as examples of countries that encode fingerprints in passports.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China plans to fingerprint foreign visitors"},{"date": "2012-03-19T23:19:50Z", "country": "china", "content": "Before last week's National People's Congress, Russian political analysts looked admiringly at the managed process of political change taking place in China. One generation of leaders hands over to another this autumn as Premier Wen Jiabao and President Hu Jintao make way for their successors. It will be the first transition that has not been shaped by the founders of the People's Republic and it will decide who will run China for the next 10 years. A transition run apparently so smoothly, when so much is at stake, is the envy of the Russian political elite.But that was before Bo Xilai, the party secretary of Chongqing province, crashed to Earth. Bo had intended to use a ruthless anti-crime crackdown in Chongqing as a vehicle to propel himself to one of nine coveted seats on the standing committee of the politburo, until his police chief, Wang Lijun, sought refuge in the American consulate in Chengdu, claiming that his life was under threat from Bo. Bo's coup de grace was delivered in person by the outgoing Premier Wen, as he warned that China risked another historical tragedy like the Cultural Revolution and that the Chongqing party had to \"seriously reflect\" on the incident. A rubber-stamp parliament this was not. But if the inner tensions of such a momentous transition had broken surface, what were they? And if this is the first public argument, will it be the last?Wen did not just aim his parting salvo at Bo, but at the authoritarian way in which reform was being managed, or stifled. During a three-hour press conference, it was here that he displayed genuine passion. Stalling or retreating from change offered no way out, he said. Without successful political structural reform, the gains China had made in instituting structural economic reform might be lost. Wen was only talking about at best incremental democratic change \u2013 elections for township and county officials only. He can also be rightly accused of having failed to translate his liberal-sounding rhetoric into reality. But he was, if anything, understating his case.The next generation of leaders headed by Xi Jinping and Li Keqiang will not only inherit a China which is vastly more wealthy than the country that Hu Jintao took over a decade ago. It is incomparably more unequal too. As Bloomberg reported, the National People's Congress's 70 richest members added more to their wealth last year than the combined net worth of the US Congress, the president, his cabinet and supreme court justices. The jostling for places on the standing committee will test Xi's powers to impose his will. China will not need technocrats but politicians who can communicate their vision beyond the party to the country as a whole. The closer one looks at it, the more familiar the process becomes.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Hu Jintao", "Xi Jinping", "Communism"], "title": "China: turbulent times | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-03-19T23:19:50Z", "country": "china", "content": "Before last week's National People's Congress, Russian political analysts looked admiringly at the managed process of political change taking place in China. One generation of leaders hands over to another this autumn as Premier Wen Jiabao and President Hu Jintao make way for their successors. It will be the first transition that has not been shaped by the founders of the People's Republic and it will decide who will run China for the next 10 years. A transition run apparently so smoothly, when so much is at stake, is the envy of the Russian political elite.But that was before Bo Xilai, the party secretary of Chongqing province, crashed to Earth. Bo had intended to use a ruthless anti-crime crackdown in Chongqing as a vehicle to propel himself to one of nine coveted seats on the standing committee of the politburo, until his police chief, Wang Lijun, sought refuge in the American consulate in Chengdu, claiming that his life was under threat from Bo. Bo's coup de grace was delivered in person by the outgoing Premier Wen, as he warned that China risked another historical tragedy like the Cultural Revolution and that the Chongqing party had to \"seriously reflect\" on the incident. A rubber-stamp parliament this was not. But if the inner tensions of such a momentous transition had broken surface, what were they? And if this is the first public argument, will it be the last?Wen did not just aim his parting salvo at Bo, but at the authoritarian way in which reform was being managed, or stifled. During a three-hour press conference, it was here that he displayed genuine passion. Stalling or retreating from change offered no way out, he said. Without successful political structural reform, the gains China had made in instituting structural economic reform might be lost. Wen was only talking about at best incremental democratic change \u2013 elections for township and county officials only. He can also be rightly accused of having failed to translate his liberal-sounding rhetoric into reality. But he was, if anything, understating his case.The next generation of leaders headed by Xi Jinping and Li Keqiang will not only inherit a China which is vastly more wealthy than the country that Hu Jintao took over a decade ago. It is incomparably more unequal too. As Bloomberg reported, the National People's Congress's 70 richest members added more to their wealth last year than the combined net worth of the US Congress, the president, his cabinet and supreme court justices. The jostling for places on the standing committee will test Xi's powers to impose his will. China will not need technocrats but politicians who can communicate their vision beyond the party to the country as a whole. The closer one looks at it, the more familiar the process becomes.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Hu Jintao", "Xi Jinping", "Communism"], "title": "China: turbulent times | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-02-14T21:00:07Z", "country": "china", "content": "Talking about the UK government's stance against torture, you make an accusation against China which is unfounded and unacceptable (An independent inquiry shows our commitment to ending torture, 31 January). China respects and protects human rights and has made remarkable achievement in promoting the human rights of the Chinese people. While making continued efforts to develop the economy and raise people's living standard, we remain committed to promoting democracy and the rule of law, with a view to safeguarding and advancing human rights in various \u00a0areas. China has all along stood firm in opposition to torture. Chinese law clearly prohibits torture of any form. Since China ratified the convention against torture in 1988, we have made unswerving efforts to bring \u00a0our legislation, law enforcement and judicial system in line with international law, so as to ban, prevent and punish torture of all forms more effectively. Dai Qingli Spokesperson, Chinese embassy ", "tags": ["China", "Torture", "Law", "Human rights"], "title": "Letters: China and torture"},{"date": "2012-03-19T23:19:50Z", "country": "china", "content": "Before last week's National People's Congress, Russian political analysts looked admiringly at the managed process of political change taking place in China. One generation of leaders hands over to another this autumn as Premier Wen Jiabao and President Hu Jintao make way for their successors. It will be the first transition that has not been shaped by the founders of the People's Republic and it will decide who will run China for the next 10 years. A transition run apparently so smoothly, when so much is at stake, is the envy of the Russian political elite.But that was before Bo Xilai, the party secretary of Chongqing province, crashed to Earth. Bo had intended to use a ruthless anti-crime crackdown in Chongqing as a vehicle to propel himself to one of nine coveted seats on the standing committee of the politburo, until his police chief, Wang Lijun, sought refuge in the American consulate in Chengdu, claiming that his life was under threat from Bo. Bo's coup de grace was delivered in person by the outgoing Premier Wen, as he warned that China risked another historical tragedy like the Cultural Revolution and that the Chongqing party had to \"seriously reflect\" on the incident. A rubber-stamp parliament this was not. But if the inner tensions of such a momentous transition had broken surface, what were they? And if this is the first public argument, will it be the last?Wen did not just aim his parting salvo at Bo, but at the authoritarian way in which reform was being managed, or stifled. During a three-hour press conference, it was here that he displayed genuine passion. Stalling or retreating from change offered no way out, he said. Without successful political structural reform, the gains China had made in instituting structural economic reform might be lost. Wen was only talking about at best incremental democratic change \u2013 elections for township and county officials only. He can also be rightly accused of having failed to translate his liberal-sounding rhetoric into reality. But he was, if anything, understating his case.The next generation of leaders headed by Xi Jinping and Li Keqiang will not only inherit a China which is vastly more wealthy than the country that Hu Jintao took over a decade ago. It is incomparably more unequal too. As Bloomberg reported, the National People's Congress's 70 richest members added more to their wealth last year than the combined net worth of the US Congress, the president, his cabinet and supreme court justices. The jostling for places on the standing committee will test Xi's powers to impose his will. China will not need technocrats but politicians who can communicate their vision beyond the party to the country as a whole. The closer one looks at it, the more familiar the process becomes.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Hu Jintao", "Xi Jinping", "Communism"], "title": "China: turbulent times | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-02-14T21:00:07Z", "country": "china", "content": "Talking about the UK government's stance against torture, you make an accusation against China which is unfounded and unacceptable (An independent inquiry shows our commitment to ending torture, 31 January). China respects and protects human rights and has made remarkable achievement in promoting the human rights of the Chinese people. While making continued efforts to develop the economy and raise people's living standard, we remain committed to promoting democracy and the rule of law, with a view to safeguarding and advancing human rights in various \u00a0areas. China has all along stood firm in opposition to torture. Chinese law clearly prohibits torture of any form. Since China ratified the convention against torture in 1988, we have made unswerving efforts to bring \u00a0our legislation, law enforcement and judicial system in line with international law, so as to ban, prevent and punish torture of all forms more effectively. Dai Qingli Spokesperson, Chinese embassy ", "tags": ["China", "Torture", "Law", "Human rights"], "title": "Letters: China and torture"},{"date": "2012-02-14T19:33:45Z", "country": "china", "content": "Vice-presidents don't usually get top-drawer treatment when they visit Washington. But the red carpet is being rolled out for China's Xi Jinping, this week. He is getting to have talks not only with the US president and vice-president, but also with the secretaries of the State and Defense departments, as well as the speaker of the House of Representatives. Nor he will he be subjected to the trying experience of a press conference; and protesters over Tibet and human rights are likely to be kept well away.Since Xi is set to assume his country's top job of secretary of the Communist party in October, and then become state president in March 2013, this treatment is only fitting. As the eurozone's quest for funding from Beijing to help it out of its hole continued at Tuesday's EU-China summit in Beijing, it is also the latest sign of just how heavily China weighs in the global scales.The subjects for discussion in Washington are evident. Xi and his hosts will doubtless review the state of the world and the global economy. They will disagree on Syria and express frustration over North Korea. Obama will urge the Chinese to take steps to reduce the US trade deficit with the mainland. Given the persecution of lawyers and the self-immolations of Tibetan monks and nuns, human rights may be a little more than the usual pro-forma \"agreement to disagree\".Obama has been groping for a relationship with Beijing since his visit to China in 2009 (he stayed away on his latest Asian tour). On that trip, he was widely seen as having been railroaded by his hosts. Hillary Clinton sounded a tougher line last year, but Vice-President Joe Biden was all smiles when he went to the mainland in 2011, with Xi shepherding him around. And Biden has now reportedly been put in charge of China policy. Sino-US strategic committees meet repeatedly, but little of substance changes. In part, this is because, aside from defending its \"core interests\" of Tibet, Xinjiang, Taiwan and the Communist party-led politico-economy system, China's diplomacy often seems to amount to little more than the pursuit of raw material supplies to feed its economic machine. It is correspondingly difficult to engage with. But the vacuum is also because, like Europe, the United States appears to have little clear notion of how to deal with the big new kid on the block.China's explosive growth in the last three decades has led to straight-line forecasts that the People 's Republic is set to rule the world. This is not going to happen, if only because the political leadership in Beijing, which is used to having its way, does not want it to happen. That said, the emergence of the world's most populous nation from the ruins of the late Mao period faces other powers with a situation never experienced before. A country that is still relatively poor now houses the world's second biggest economy, with foreign exchange reserves of more than $3tn, making it a major contributor to paying for the federal deficit of the richest country on earth.America wants to engage with China, but it also wants to hedge its bets in case things turn sour. So, Obama launched an initiative last year to buttress the US position in the Pacific, which brings it into potential confrontation with Beijing \u2013 the Trans Pacific Partnership (TPP) being pushed by Washington would not include the People's Republic. (Since it may well not extend to Japan or South Korea either, it is, in fact, probably dead in the water.) The naval build-up by the People's Liberation Army arouses fears among some commentators \u2013 and anxious warnings from the arms industry \u2013 that China will come to resemble pre-first world war Germany, even though its military capacity is far, far below that of the US. China, for its part, knows that its growth has drawn heavily on the appetite in the west for its cheap goods and that it has no interest in trade wars with the US. In an allusion to commercial tensions, Xi told former senior US officials, including Henry Kissinger, at his first meeting in Washington:\"This year marks the election year of the United States. I believe no one of insight from the US side would like to see that the election factors would have a regrettable impact on the development of ties between the two countries \u2026 We should deal with friction and differences in bilateral economic and trade cooperation in the spirit of seeking mutual benefits and win-win results through a positive and constructive way.\"But old, protective suspicions regularly emerge from Beijing, augmented by rising nationalism on the back of economic growth. Hu Jintao, the man who will hand over to Xi, told a Communist party plenum last October:\"We must clearly see that international hostile forces are intensifying the strategic plot of Westernizing and dividing China \u2026 We should deeply understand the seriousness and complexity of the ideological struggle, always sound the alarms and remain vigilant and take forceful measures to be on guard and respond.\"In this uncertain context, Xi is, himself, a source of uncertainty. Son of a Mao-era vice-premier, who was purged during the Cultural Revolution and then rehabilitated to supervise the economic development of Guangdong province, Xi has worked his way up the bureaucracy of the state and party, and was elevated to the supreme decision-making body, the standing committee, of the politburo in 2007. Ask people in Beijing how he got to the top and the answer is that all the many interest groups in China are comfortable with him. He has been careful not to express any opinion that deviates from party orthodoxy.So, on current showing, Xi does not seem to be the leader who will be ready, or able, to undertake the structural reforms China needs in the coming years. He will have to deal with a society that is evolving beyond the constraints of the party state system \u2013 and with new tensions, as demonstrated by the ongoing imbroglio around the rock star of Chinese politics, Bo Xilai, in the mega-municipality of Chongqing. China has enormous problems, ranging from the environment to the legal system, through corruption and a lack of trust in authority of all kinds.Those domestic challenges, rather than foreign relations, will be the key to China's development, as it tries to move away from the old growth model. The world will have to reconcile itself to sitting on the sidelines and watching as the story is played out in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangdong, Chongqing and a hundred other places far from the White House.", "tags": ["Xi Jinping", "China", "US news", "Obama administration", "Barack Obama", "Joe Biden", "Hillary Clinton", "US foreign policy", "US military", "Tibet", "Human rights", "European Union", "Eurozone crisis", "Hu Jintao"], "title": "America's apprehensive China diplomacy | Jonathan Fenby"},{"date": "2012-03-19T23:19:50Z", "country": "china", "content": "Before last week's National People's Congress, Russian political analysts looked admiringly at the managed process of political change taking place in China. One generation of leaders hands over to another this autumn as Premier Wen Jiabao and President Hu Jintao make way for their successors. It will be the first transition that has not been shaped by the founders of the People's Republic and it will decide who will run China for the next 10 years. A transition run apparently so smoothly, when so much is at stake, is the envy of the Russian political elite.But that was before Bo Xilai, the party secretary of Chongqing province, crashed to Earth. Bo had intended to use a ruthless anti-crime crackdown in Chongqing as a vehicle to propel himself to one of nine coveted seats on the standing committee of the politburo, until his police chief, Wang Lijun, sought refuge in the American consulate in Chengdu, claiming that his life was under threat from Bo. Bo's coup de grace was delivered in person by the outgoing Premier Wen, as he warned that China risked another historical tragedy like the Cultural Revolution and that the Chongqing party had to \"seriously reflect\" on the incident. A rubber-stamp parliament this was not. But if the inner tensions of such a momentous transition had broken surface, what were they? And if this is the first public argument, will it be the last?Wen did not just aim his parting salvo at Bo, but at the authoritarian way in which reform was being managed, or stifled. During a three-hour press conference, it was here that he displayed genuine passion. Stalling or retreating from change offered no way out, he said. Without successful political structural reform, the gains China had made in instituting structural economic reform might be lost. Wen was only talking about at best incremental democratic change \u2013 elections for township and county officials only. He can also be rightly accused of having failed to translate his liberal-sounding rhetoric into reality. But he was, if anything, understating his case.The next generation of leaders headed by Xi Jinping and Li Keqiang will not only inherit a China which is vastly more wealthy than the country that Hu Jintao took over a decade ago. It is incomparably more unequal too. As Bloomberg reported, the National People's Congress's 70 richest members added more to their wealth last year than the combined net worth of the US Congress, the president, his cabinet and supreme court justices. The jostling for places on the standing committee will test Xi's powers to impose his will. China will not need technocrats but politicians who can communicate their vision beyond the party to the country as a whole. The closer one looks at it, the more familiar the process becomes.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Hu Jintao", "Xi Jinping", "Communism"], "title": "China: turbulent times | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-02-14T21:00:07Z", "country": "china", "content": "Talking about the UK government's stance against torture, you make an accusation against China which is unfounded and unacceptable (An independent inquiry shows our commitment to ending torture, 31 January). China respects and protects human rights and has made remarkable achievement in promoting the human rights of the Chinese people. While making continued efforts to develop the economy and raise people's living standard, we remain committed to promoting democracy and the rule of law, with a view to safeguarding and advancing human rights in various \u00a0areas. China has all along stood firm in opposition to torture. Chinese law clearly prohibits torture of any form. Since China ratified the convention against torture in 1988, we have made unswerving efforts to bring \u00a0our legislation, law enforcement and judicial system in line with international law, so as to ban, prevent and punish torture of all forms more effectively. Dai Qingli Spokesperson, Chinese embassy ", "tags": ["China", "Torture", "Law", "Human rights"], "title": "Letters: China and torture"},{"date": "2012-02-14T19:33:45Z", "country": "china", "content": "Vice-presidents don't usually get top-drawer treatment when they visit Washington. But the red carpet is being rolled out for China's Xi Jinping, this week. He is getting to have talks not only with the US president and vice-president, but also with the secretaries of the State and Defense departments, as well as the speaker of the House of Representatives. Nor he will he be subjected to the trying experience of a press conference; and protesters over Tibet and human rights are likely to be kept well away.Since Xi is set to assume his country's top job of secretary of the Communist party in October, and then become state president in March 2013, this treatment is only fitting. As the eurozone's quest for funding from Beijing to help it out of its hole continued at Tuesday's EU-China summit in Beijing, it is also the latest sign of just how heavily China weighs in the global scales.The subjects for discussion in Washington are evident. Xi and his hosts will doubtless review the state of the world and the global economy. They will disagree on Syria and express frustration over North Korea. Obama will urge the Chinese to take steps to reduce the US trade deficit with the mainland. Given the persecution of lawyers and the self-immolations of Tibetan monks and nuns, human rights may be a little more than the usual pro-forma \"agreement to disagree\".Obama has been groping for a relationship with Beijing since his visit to China in 2009 (he stayed away on his latest Asian tour). On that trip, he was widely seen as having been railroaded by his hosts. Hillary Clinton sounded a tougher line last year, but Vice-President Joe Biden was all smiles when he went to the mainland in 2011, with Xi shepherding him around. And Biden has now reportedly been put in charge of China policy. Sino-US strategic committees meet repeatedly, but little of substance changes. In part, this is because, aside from defending its \"core interests\" of Tibet, Xinjiang, Taiwan and the Communist party-led politico-economy system, China's diplomacy often seems to amount to little more than the pursuit of raw material supplies to feed its economic machine. It is correspondingly difficult to engage with. But the vacuum is also because, like Europe, the United States appears to have little clear notion of how to deal with the big new kid on the block.China's explosive growth in the last three decades has led to straight-line forecasts that the People 's Republic is set to rule the world. This is not going to happen, if only because the political leadership in Beijing, which is used to having its way, does not want it to happen. That said, the emergence of the world's most populous nation from the ruins of the late Mao period faces other powers with a situation never experienced before. A country that is still relatively poor now houses the world's second biggest economy, with foreign exchange reserves of more than $3tn, making it a major contributor to paying for the federal deficit of the richest country on earth.America wants to engage with China, but it also wants to hedge its bets in case things turn sour. So, Obama launched an initiative last year to buttress the US position in the Pacific, which brings it into potential confrontation with Beijing \u2013 the Trans Pacific Partnership (TPP) being pushed by Washington would not include the People's Republic. (Since it may well not extend to Japan or South Korea either, it is, in fact, probably dead in the water.) The naval build-up by the People's Liberation Army arouses fears among some commentators \u2013 and anxious warnings from the arms industry \u2013 that China will come to resemble pre-first world war Germany, even though its military capacity is far, far below that of the US. China, for its part, knows that its growth has drawn heavily on the appetite in the west for its cheap goods and that it has no interest in trade wars with the US. In an allusion to commercial tensions, Xi told former senior US officials, including Henry Kissinger, at his first meeting in Washington:\"This year marks the election year of the United States. I believe no one of insight from the US side would like to see that the election factors would have a regrettable impact on the development of ties between the two countries \u2026 We should deal with friction and differences in bilateral economic and trade cooperation in the spirit of seeking mutual benefits and win-win results through a positive and constructive way.\"But old, protective suspicions regularly emerge from Beijing, augmented by rising nationalism on the back of economic growth. Hu Jintao, the man who will hand over to Xi, told a Communist party plenum last October:\"We must clearly see that international hostile forces are intensifying the strategic plot of Westernizing and dividing China \u2026 We should deeply understand the seriousness and complexity of the ideological struggle, always sound the alarms and remain vigilant and take forceful measures to be on guard and respond.\"In this uncertain context, Xi is, himself, a source of uncertainty. Son of a Mao-era vice-premier, who was purged during the Cultural Revolution and then rehabilitated to supervise the economic development of Guangdong province, Xi has worked his way up the bureaucracy of the state and party, and was elevated to the supreme decision-making body, the standing committee, of the politburo in 2007. Ask people in Beijing how he got to the top and the answer is that all the many interest groups in China are comfortable with him. He has been careful not to express any opinion that deviates from party orthodoxy.So, on current showing, Xi does not seem to be the leader who will be ready, or able, to undertake the structural reforms China needs in the coming years. He will have to deal with a society that is evolving beyond the constraints of the party state system \u2013 and with new tensions, as demonstrated by the ongoing imbroglio around the rock star of Chinese politics, Bo Xilai, in the mega-municipality of Chongqing. China has enormous problems, ranging from the environment to the legal system, through corruption and a lack of trust in authority of all kinds.Those domestic challenges, rather than foreign relations, will be the key to China's development, as it tries to move away from the old growth model. The world will have to reconcile itself to sitting on the sidelines and watching as the story is played out in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangdong, Chongqing and a hundred other places far from the White House.", "tags": ["Xi Jinping", "China", "US news", "Obama administration", "Barack Obama", "Joe Biden", "Hillary Clinton", "US foreign policy", "US military", "Tibet", "Human rights", "European Union", "Eurozone crisis", "Hu Jintao"], "title": "America's apprehensive China diplomacy | Jonathan Fenby"},{"date": "2012-03-06T13:59:07Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has grown increasingly friendly towards Europe as the EU's sovereign debt crisis unfolds, and it is gently but steadily advancing its pawns in the single market. There are still few Chinese-owned factories in Europe, but Beijing has been advancing its interests over the last three years.China first focused its attention on Greece, the aim being to make Piraeus, in the Athens suburbs, the main point for goods entering the European market. The port is now dominated by the China Ocean Shipping Company (Cosco), which has been operating two terminals there since 2009. In 2010 Prime Minister Wen Jiabao kicked off a European visit there, meeting policy makers and business leaders from France, Portugal, Italy, Belgium, and above all from Greece.Since Cosco's arrival in Greece, exports to China have increased by 50%. Beijing wants to step up investments in the country, in particular in telecommunications, banking, car manufacture, railway infrastructure, property, catering, electronics, textiles and glass. But as well as investments linked to Greece's current financial woes \u2013 with central banks offering risky, but high-yield bonds \u2013 or company takeovers, the Chinese are keen to locate production facilities on the European mainland.Last month the car manufacturer Great Wall Motors fired up an assembly line in Bulgaria. \"It's the first Chinese car factory to produce in Europe for Europe,\" said an executive from the firm's Bulgarian partner company.As yet there are no Chinese production plants in France but there are plans to open a Franco-Chinese business park near Ch\u00e2teauroux, in western France. It will specialise in assembling parts and sub-systems manufactured at low cost in China. Thanks to this partnership, goods will qualify for a \"Made in Europe\" label, thought to be more reassuring than its Chinese counterpart.These \"companies must remedy the poor or nonexistent brand recognition they enjoy abroad,\" urged a report published in 2009 by France's economy, industry and employment ministry, \"and build an image for quality thanks to products at least as good as those of European or foreign competitors already operating in Europe. They need to rise above the often negative image associated with their goods, particularly as European consumers tend to assume low prices go hand in hand with poor quality.\"Herv\u00e9 Solignac Lecomte, head of international trade at HSBC France, endorses this view. \"Chinese companies want to dispel the 'low-grade' image of their manufactured goods. So they are trying to improve their position in the value chain by relocating all or part of their output in Europe,\" he says.Chinese manufacturers had suffered some serious setbacks before starting production in Europe. In 2011 Poland tore up a contract with China Overseas Engineering Group Co Ltd for the construction of a motorway between Warsaw and Berlin, only a year after the start of the project. The Polish public works department cited \"delays\" to explain its decision.Now instead of just operating as the workshop of the world, while staying at a safe distance from the markets \u2013 and consumers \u2013 it wants to win over, China is rethinking its strategy. \"GWM's Bulgarian plant is located close to potential customers and distribution channels,\" Lecomte explains.This is borne out by China's determination \"to invest primarily in sectors that will boost its foreign trade, but also facilitate international trade in general, areas such as air, rail and sea transport, infrastructure, and the associated logistics services and storage facilities,\" Lecomte adds.\"China wants to secure multiple points of access to Europe for its products. It's a more proactive and potentially less costly strategy, particularly with the high price of oil, which substantially adds to the cost of freight,\" Lecomte says. France has adopted the same approach by relocating vehicle production to Morocco.While companies may relocate production facilities, the centre of operations has remains fixed. \"The [regional] headquarters of Chinese firms are often located in London, which is Europe's main financial centre. But decisions are still taken in China and the system is still centralised. The yardstick is always the company at home in China,\" Lecomte says.\"We are currently seeing the installation of Chinese production units in Europe,\" he adds. \"But I think that ultimately China will set up more integrated facilities here, with decision-making powers as well as production.\"This article originally appeared in Le MondeGreat Wall Motors and its Bulgarian counterpart Litex launched production of three models at their Bahovitsa plant last month.GWM aims to manufacture 50,000 vehicles a year there. For now the factory is forecasting \"several thousand\" city cars, saloons and pick-ups, with prices ranging from \u20ac8,200 to \u20ac14,600 ($10,800 to $19,270). The parts will be imported from China and assembled in Bulgaria, permitting duty-free access to the European market.Just as western manufacturers want a share of the oriental cake, their Chinese counterparts are queuing up to locate to Europe.The GWM factory is not the first Chinese plant in Europe. MG, which was bought up by Nanjing-SAIC in 2005, assembles its MG TF and MG6 models at Longbridge in the UK. Similarly the Chinese manufacturer Geely, which bought Volvo and Manganese Bronze in 2010, is now rolling out its EC7 saloon.General Motors baulked at selling Opel and Saab to Chinese firms, respectively BAIC in 2009, and Pang Da and Youngman in 2011. But the latter may sale now go ahead as the Swedish brand is in receivership.By the end of 2012 DR Motors of Italy aims to produce Chery models at Fiat's former factory in Sicily. In partnership with Israel Corp, the same Chinese company is developing a new brand, Qoros, for European markets.Philippe Jacqu\u00e9 Le Monde", "tags": ["China", "Business", "Automotive industry", "Manufacturing sector", "Europe", "Bulgaria"], "title": "\"Made in China\" no more"},{"date": "2012-03-19T23:19:50Z", "country": "china", "content": "Before last week's National People's Congress, Russian political analysts looked admiringly at the managed process of political change taking place in China. One generation of leaders hands over to another this autumn as Premier Wen Jiabao and President Hu Jintao make way for their successors. It will be the first transition that has not been shaped by the founders of the People's Republic and it will decide who will run China for the next 10 years. A transition run apparently so smoothly, when so much is at stake, is the envy of the Russian political elite.But that was before Bo Xilai, the party secretary of Chongqing province, crashed to Earth. Bo had intended to use a ruthless anti-crime crackdown in Chongqing as a vehicle to propel himself to one of nine coveted seats on the standing committee of the politburo, until his police chief, Wang Lijun, sought refuge in the American consulate in Chengdu, claiming that his life was under threat from Bo. Bo's coup de grace was delivered in person by the outgoing Premier Wen, as he warned that China risked another historical tragedy like the Cultural Revolution and that the Chongqing party had to \"seriously reflect\" on the incident. A rubber-stamp parliament this was not. But if the inner tensions of such a momentous transition had broken surface, what were they? And if this is the first public argument, will it be the last?Wen did not just aim his parting salvo at Bo, but at the authoritarian way in which reform was being managed, or stifled. During a three-hour press conference, it was here that he displayed genuine passion. Stalling or retreating from change offered no way out, he said. Without successful political structural reform, the gains China had made in instituting structural economic reform might be lost. Wen was only talking about at best incremental democratic change \u2013 elections for township and county officials only. He can also be rightly accused of having failed to translate his liberal-sounding rhetoric into reality. But he was, if anything, understating his case.The next generation of leaders headed by Xi Jinping and Li Keqiang will not only inherit a China which is vastly more wealthy than the country that Hu Jintao took over a decade ago. It is incomparably more unequal too. As Bloomberg reported, the National People's Congress's 70 richest members added more to their wealth last year than the combined net worth of the US Congress, the president, his cabinet and supreme court justices. The jostling for places on the standing committee will test Xi's powers to impose his will. China will not need technocrats but politicians who can communicate their vision beyond the party to the country as a whole. The closer one looks at it, the more familiar the process becomes.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Hu Jintao", "Xi Jinping", "Communism"], "title": "China: turbulent times | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-02-14T21:00:07Z", "country": "china", "content": "Talking about the UK government's stance against torture, you make an accusation against China which is unfounded and unacceptable (An independent inquiry shows our commitment to ending torture, 31 January). China respects and protects human rights and has made remarkable achievement in promoting the human rights of the Chinese people. While making continued efforts to develop the economy and raise people's living standard, we remain committed to promoting democracy and the rule of law, with a view to safeguarding and advancing human rights in various \u00a0areas. China has all along stood firm in opposition to torture. Chinese law clearly prohibits torture of any form. Since China ratified the convention against torture in 1988, we have made unswerving efforts to bring \u00a0our legislation, law enforcement and judicial system in line with international law, so as to ban, prevent and punish torture of all forms more effectively. Dai Qingli Spokesperson, Chinese embassy ", "tags": ["China", "Torture", "Law", "Human rights"], "title": "Letters: China and torture"},{"date": "2012-02-14T19:33:45Z", "country": "china", "content": "Vice-presidents don't usually get top-drawer treatment when they visit Washington. But the red carpet is being rolled out for China's Xi Jinping, this week. He is getting to have talks not only with the US president and vice-president, but also with the secretaries of the State and Defense departments, as well as the speaker of the House of Representatives. Nor he will he be subjected to the trying experience of a press conference; and protesters over Tibet and human rights are likely to be kept well away.Since Xi is set to assume his country's top job of secretary of the Communist party in October, and then become state president in March 2013, this treatment is only fitting. As the eurozone's quest for funding from Beijing to help it out of its hole continued at Tuesday's EU-China summit in Beijing, it is also the latest sign of just how heavily China weighs in the global scales.The subjects for discussion in Washington are evident. Xi and his hosts will doubtless review the state of the world and the global economy. They will disagree on Syria and express frustration over North Korea. Obama will urge the Chinese to take steps to reduce the US trade deficit with the mainland. Given the persecution of lawyers and the self-immolations of Tibetan monks and nuns, human rights may be a little more than the usual pro-forma \"agreement to disagree\".Obama has been groping for a relationship with Beijing since his visit to China in 2009 (he stayed away on his latest Asian tour). On that trip, he was widely seen as having been railroaded by his hosts. Hillary Clinton sounded a tougher line last year, but Vice-President Joe Biden was all smiles when he went to the mainland in 2011, with Xi shepherding him around. And Biden has now reportedly been put in charge of China policy. Sino-US strategic committees meet repeatedly, but little of substance changes. In part, this is because, aside from defending its \"core interests\" of Tibet, Xinjiang, Taiwan and the Communist party-led politico-economy system, China's diplomacy often seems to amount to little more than the pursuit of raw material supplies to feed its economic machine. It is correspondingly difficult to engage with. But the vacuum is also because, like Europe, the United States appears to have little clear notion of how to deal with the big new kid on the block.China's explosive growth in the last three decades has led to straight-line forecasts that the People 's Republic is set to rule the world. This is not going to happen, if only because the political leadership in Beijing, which is used to having its way, does not want it to happen. That said, the emergence of the world's most populous nation from the ruins of the late Mao period faces other powers with a situation never experienced before. A country that is still relatively poor now houses the world's second biggest economy, with foreign exchange reserves of more than $3tn, making it a major contributor to paying for the federal deficit of the richest country on earth.America wants to engage with China, but it also wants to hedge its bets in case things turn sour. So, Obama launched an initiative last year to buttress the US position in the Pacific, which brings it into potential confrontation with Beijing \u2013 the Trans Pacific Partnership (TPP) being pushed by Washington would not include the People's Republic. (Since it may well not extend to Japan or South Korea either, it is, in fact, probably dead in the water.) The naval build-up by the People's Liberation Army arouses fears among some commentators \u2013 and anxious warnings from the arms industry \u2013 that China will come to resemble pre-first world war Germany, even though its military capacity is far, far below that of the US. China, for its part, knows that its growth has drawn heavily on the appetite in the west for its cheap goods and that it has no interest in trade wars with the US. In an allusion to commercial tensions, Xi told former senior US officials, including Henry Kissinger, at his first meeting in Washington:\"This year marks the election year of the United States. I believe no one of insight from the US side would like to see that the election factors would have a regrettable impact on the development of ties between the two countries \u2026 We should deal with friction and differences in bilateral economic and trade cooperation in the spirit of seeking mutual benefits and win-win results through a positive and constructive way.\"But old, protective suspicions regularly emerge from Beijing, augmented by rising nationalism on the back of economic growth. Hu Jintao, the man who will hand over to Xi, told a Communist party plenum last October:\"We must clearly see that international hostile forces are intensifying the strategic plot of Westernizing and dividing China \u2026 We should deeply understand the seriousness and complexity of the ideological struggle, always sound the alarms and remain vigilant and take forceful measures to be on guard and respond.\"In this uncertain context, Xi is, himself, a source of uncertainty. Son of a Mao-era vice-premier, who was purged during the Cultural Revolution and then rehabilitated to supervise the economic development of Guangdong province, Xi has worked his way up the bureaucracy of the state and party, and was elevated to the supreme decision-making body, the standing committee, of the politburo in 2007. Ask people in Beijing how he got to the top and the answer is that all the many interest groups in China are comfortable with him. He has been careful not to express any opinion that deviates from party orthodoxy.So, on current showing, Xi does not seem to be the leader who will be ready, or able, to undertake the structural reforms China needs in the coming years. He will have to deal with a society that is evolving beyond the constraints of the party state system \u2013 and with new tensions, as demonstrated by the ongoing imbroglio around the rock star of Chinese politics, Bo Xilai, in the mega-municipality of Chongqing. China has enormous problems, ranging from the environment to the legal system, through corruption and a lack of trust in authority of all kinds.Those domestic challenges, rather than foreign relations, will be the key to China's development, as it tries to move away from the old growth model. The world will have to reconcile itself to sitting on the sidelines and watching as the story is played out in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangdong, Chongqing and a hundred other places far from the White House.", "tags": ["Xi Jinping", "China", "US news", "Obama administration", "Barack Obama", "Joe Biden", "Hillary Clinton", "US foreign policy", "US military", "Tibet", "Human rights", "European Union", "Eurozone crisis", "Hu Jintao"], "title": "America's apprehensive China diplomacy | Jonathan Fenby"},{"date": "2012-03-06T13:59:07Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has grown increasingly friendly towards Europe as the EU's sovereign debt crisis unfolds, and it is gently but steadily advancing its pawns in the single market. There are still few Chinese-owned factories in Europe, but Beijing has been advancing its interests over the last three years.China first focused its attention on Greece, the aim being to make Piraeus, in the Athens suburbs, the main point for goods entering the European market. The port is now dominated by the China Ocean Shipping Company (Cosco), which has been operating two terminals there since 2009. In 2010 Prime Minister Wen Jiabao kicked off a European visit there, meeting policy makers and business leaders from France, Portugal, Italy, Belgium, and above all from Greece.Since Cosco's arrival in Greece, exports to China have increased by 50%. Beijing wants to step up investments in the country, in particular in telecommunications, banking, car manufacture, railway infrastructure, property, catering, electronics, textiles and glass. But as well as investments linked to Greece's current financial woes \u2013 with central banks offering risky, but high-yield bonds \u2013 or company takeovers, the Chinese are keen to locate production facilities on the European mainland.Last month the car manufacturer Great Wall Motors fired up an assembly line in Bulgaria. \"It's the first Chinese car factory to produce in Europe for Europe,\" said an executive from the firm's Bulgarian partner company.As yet there are no Chinese production plants in France but there are plans to open a Franco-Chinese business park near Ch\u00e2teauroux, in western France. It will specialise in assembling parts and sub-systems manufactured at low cost in China. Thanks to this partnership, goods will qualify for a \"Made in Europe\" label, thought to be more reassuring than its Chinese counterpart.These \"companies must remedy the poor or nonexistent brand recognition they enjoy abroad,\" urged a report published in 2009 by France's economy, industry and employment ministry, \"and build an image for quality thanks to products at least as good as those of European or foreign competitors already operating in Europe. They need to rise above the often negative image associated with their goods, particularly as European consumers tend to assume low prices go hand in hand with poor quality.\"Herv\u00e9 Solignac Lecomte, head of international trade at HSBC France, endorses this view. \"Chinese companies want to dispel the 'low-grade' image of their manufactured goods. So they are trying to improve their position in the value chain by relocating all or part of their output in Europe,\" he says.Chinese manufacturers had suffered some serious setbacks before starting production in Europe. In 2011 Poland tore up a contract with China Overseas Engineering Group Co Ltd for the construction of a motorway between Warsaw and Berlin, only a year after the start of the project. The Polish public works department cited \"delays\" to explain its decision.Now instead of just operating as the workshop of the world, while staying at a safe distance from the markets \u2013 and consumers \u2013 it wants to win over, China is rethinking its strategy. \"GWM's Bulgarian plant is located close to potential customers and distribution channels,\" Lecomte explains.This is borne out by China's determination \"to invest primarily in sectors that will boost its foreign trade, but also facilitate international trade in general, areas such as air, rail and sea transport, infrastructure, and the associated logistics services and storage facilities,\" Lecomte adds.\"China wants to secure multiple points of access to Europe for its products. It's a more proactive and potentially less costly strategy, particularly with the high price of oil, which substantially adds to the cost of freight,\" Lecomte says. France has adopted the same approach by relocating vehicle production to Morocco.While companies may relocate production facilities, the centre of operations has remains fixed. \"The [regional] headquarters of Chinese firms are often located in London, which is Europe's main financial centre. But decisions are still taken in China and the system is still centralised. The yardstick is always the company at home in China,\" Lecomte says.\"We are currently seeing the installation of Chinese production units in Europe,\" he adds. \"But I think that ultimately China will set up more integrated facilities here, with decision-making powers as well as production.\"This article originally appeared in Le MondeGreat Wall Motors and its Bulgarian counterpart Litex launched production of three models at their Bahovitsa plant last month.GWM aims to manufacture 50,000 vehicles a year there. For now the factory is forecasting \"several thousand\" city cars, saloons and pick-ups, with prices ranging from \u20ac8,200 to \u20ac14,600 ($10,800 to $19,270). The parts will be imported from China and assembled in Bulgaria, permitting duty-free access to the European market.Just as western manufacturers want a share of the oriental cake, their Chinese counterparts are queuing up to locate to Europe.The GWM factory is not the first Chinese plant in Europe. MG, which was bought up by Nanjing-SAIC in 2005, assembles its MG TF and MG6 models at Longbridge in the UK. Similarly the Chinese manufacturer Geely, which bought Volvo and Manganese Bronze in 2010, is now rolling out its EC7 saloon.General Motors baulked at selling Opel and Saab to Chinese firms, respectively BAIC in 2009, and Pang Da and Youngman in 2011. But the latter may sale now go ahead as the Swedish brand is in receivership.By the end of 2012 DR Motors of Italy aims to produce Chery models at Fiat's former factory in Sicily. In partnership with Israel Corp, the same Chinese company is developing a new brand, Qoros, for European markets.Philippe Jacqu\u00e9 Le Monde", "tags": ["China", "Business", "Automotive industry", "Manufacturing sector", "Europe", "Bulgaria"], "title": "\"Made in China\" no more"},{"date": "2012-03-27T07:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "It is evident to me having spent a lot of time in China that for the majority of UK universities, their overarching brand positioning is irrelevant to the Chinese market. The differentiating factors, all relevant in the UK, are invalid and misunderstood by the students they seek to attract as well as the agents that represent them in the marketplace.Chinese students have two main influencers when researching UK universities; the league tables, most specifically a university's performance in a particular subject area, and word of mouth. Note that US universities have been building their reputations in Asia for around 10 years longer than those in the UK, which means they benefit more from this type of exposure.Watching Chinese students search the web is interesting in itself. Starting normally with Chinese search engine Baidu, they invariably look for a \"top UK university\" in a particular subject, not a specific place and not your establishment. The websites they are most likely referred to are those of agents where there is very little discrimination between the offer of one establishment and another.Even if potential students find you, say on your website, the brand positioning and associated messages you have worked hard to develop in the context of the UK market constitute an unfocused proposition in China.For a university site aimed at the Chinese market to be effective, it has to be selective in its choice of featured people, places, products and performance. The rationale for including facts and accompanying messages around these categories must be evidence based \u2013 best, or better, than the rest\u2013 as well as wrapped and presented in a culturally-nuanced layer of understanding.Unless you are Oxford, Cambridge or the LSE, or you already have a regional physical presence in China like the University of Nottingham, hard editorial decisions need to be made which will require vision, agility, leadership and commitment.Promote only your best productsIf you are consistently highly rated in a particular subject, use this as your springboard. Do not however, assume that your existing undergraduate programme in a certain subject is desirable in China. You may have to tweak it for the market. A simple example is to ensure that a required/featured module in any programme aimed at China is Business and/or Management as these subjects are highly valued. If you can add into this supporting information about a number of star Chinese alumni, or lecturers, then so much the better.International recruitment relies on everyoneIn order to present yourself to the market you will have to enlist or at least understand the relevant content and resources available across your organisation. The international office needs to liaise with, and have the authority to expect help from, your alumni, communications and student services departments as well as the academic research and teaching community.Be present on Chinese digital channelsIn order to bypass the agents' websites and ensure your tailored messages are presented correctly, it is necessary to have a presence on Chinese digital channels. To do this you will need to recruit Chinese partners to set up a domain for you as well as intervene, monitor the buzz and seed social media channels such as Weibo. This also cements your partnership with agents as any microsite you might develop will ensure they fully understand your proposition, how to articulate it and how to engage with you.Understand your target regionCommitment is crucial in building your reputation, so it is essential that you understand your targeted region and develop a business plan for its development. Do the sums: costs and benefits. Such a plan should not rely solely on digital, since as we said there is little substitute in the minds of the potential Chinese student for a word of mouth recommendation. Get your star lecturers over to the region you are aiming at, build existing relationships with Chinese academics, encourage staff and student exchanges.This may all seem obvious, but the key to its success is to do it properly. It is to move from the traditional sales approach to a marketing approach that drives sales. A Chinese version of your UK website will not have the same effect as one crafted for the market. Sending your international staff on recruitment trips to HE fairs across China, although important, will not result in a reputational upsurge. Most importantly, trying to sell everything to all of China will not mean your brand is recognised, or respected.In order to be effective UK institutions need to be selective in their choice of market and their proposition to that market. Only once that reputation is built, will UK institutions be in a position to leverage it more widely, and across more of their core disciplines.Paul Hoskins is the founder and chairman of Precedent, a digital communications agency working in the higher education sector. He tweets at @precedentcomms.", "tags": ["Higher Education Network", "Communications and marketing", "International", "Distinctiveness", "Higher education", "Education", "International students"], "title": "How to recruit international students in China"},{"date": "2012-03-19T23:19:50Z", "country": "china", "content": "Before last week's National People's Congress, Russian political analysts looked admiringly at the managed process of political change taking place in China. One generation of leaders hands over to another this autumn as Premier Wen Jiabao and President Hu Jintao make way for their successors. It will be the first transition that has not been shaped by the founders of the People's Republic and it will decide who will run China for the next 10 years. A transition run apparently so smoothly, when so much is at stake, is the envy of the Russian political elite.But that was before Bo Xilai, the party secretary of Chongqing province, crashed to Earth. Bo had intended to use a ruthless anti-crime crackdown in Chongqing as a vehicle to propel himself to one of nine coveted seats on the standing committee of the politburo, until his police chief, Wang Lijun, sought refuge in the American consulate in Chengdu, claiming that his life was under threat from Bo. Bo's coup de grace was delivered in person by the outgoing Premier Wen, as he warned that China risked another historical tragedy like the Cultural Revolution and that the Chongqing party had to \"seriously reflect\" on the incident. A rubber-stamp parliament this was not. But if the inner tensions of such a momentous transition had broken surface, what were they? And if this is the first public argument, will it be the last?Wen did not just aim his parting salvo at Bo, but at the authoritarian way in which reform was being managed, or stifled. During a three-hour press conference, it was here that he displayed genuine passion. Stalling or retreating from change offered no way out, he said. Without successful political structural reform, the gains China had made in instituting structural economic reform might be lost. Wen was only talking about at best incremental democratic change \u2013 elections for township and county officials only. He can also be rightly accused of having failed to translate his liberal-sounding rhetoric into reality. But he was, if anything, understating his case.The next generation of leaders headed by Xi Jinping and Li Keqiang will not only inherit a China which is vastly more wealthy than the country that Hu Jintao took over a decade ago. It is incomparably more unequal too. As Bloomberg reported, the National People's Congress's 70 richest members added more to their wealth last year than the combined net worth of the US Congress, the president, his cabinet and supreme court justices. The jostling for places on the standing committee will test Xi's powers to impose his will. China will not need technocrats but politicians who can communicate their vision beyond the party to the country as a whole. The closer one looks at it, the more familiar the process becomes.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Hu Jintao", "Xi Jinping", "Communism"], "title": "China: turbulent times | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-02-14T21:00:07Z", "country": "china", "content": "Talking about the UK government's stance against torture, you make an accusation against China which is unfounded and unacceptable (An independent inquiry shows our commitment to ending torture, 31 January). China respects and protects human rights and has made remarkable achievement in promoting the human rights of the Chinese people. While making continued efforts to develop the economy and raise people's living standard, we remain committed to promoting democracy and the rule of law, with a view to safeguarding and advancing human rights in various \u00a0areas. China has all along stood firm in opposition to torture. Chinese law clearly prohibits torture of any form. Since China ratified the convention against torture in 1988, we have made unswerving efforts to bring \u00a0our legislation, law enforcement and judicial system in line with international law, so as to ban, prevent and punish torture of all forms more effectively. Dai Qingli Spokesperson, Chinese embassy ", "tags": ["China", "Torture", "Law", "Human rights"], "title": "Letters: China and torture"},{"date": "2012-02-14T19:33:45Z", "country": "china", "content": "Vice-presidents don't usually get top-drawer treatment when they visit Washington. But the red carpet is being rolled out for China's Xi Jinping, this week. He is getting to have talks not only with the US president and vice-president, but also with the secretaries of the State and Defense departments, as well as the speaker of the House of Representatives. Nor he will he be subjected to the trying experience of a press conference; and protesters over Tibet and human rights are likely to be kept well away.Since Xi is set to assume his country's top job of secretary of the Communist party in October, and then become state president in March 2013, this treatment is only fitting. As the eurozone's quest for funding from Beijing to help it out of its hole continued at Tuesday's EU-China summit in Beijing, it is also the latest sign of just how heavily China weighs in the global scales.The subjects for discussion in Washington are evident. Xi and his hosts will doubtless review the state of the world and the global economy. They will disagree on Syria and express frustration over North Korea. Obama will urge the Chinese to take steps to reduce the US trade deficit with the mainland. Given the persecution of lawyers and the self-immolations of Tibetan monks and nuns, human rights may be a little more than the usual pro-forma \"agreement to disagree\".Obama has been groping for a relationship with Beijing since his visit to China in 2009 (he stayed away on his latest Asian tour). On that trip, he was widely seen as having been railroaded by his hosts. Hillary Clinton sounded a tougher line last year, but Vice-President Joe Biden was all smiles when he went to the mainland in 2011, with Xi shepherding him around. And Biden has now reportedly been put in charge of China policy. Sino-US strategic committees meet repeatedly, but little of substance changes. In part, this is because, aside from defending its \"core interests\" of Tibet, Xinjiang, Taiwan and the Communist party-led politico-economy system, China's diplomacy often seems to amount to little more than the pursuit of raw material supplies to feed its economic machine. It is correspondingly difficult to engage with. But the vacuum is also because, like Europe, the United States appears to have little clear notion of how to deal with the big new kid on the block.China's explosive growth in the last three decades has led to straight-line forecasts that the People 's Republic is set to rule the world. This is not going to happen, if only because the political leadership in Beijing, which is used to having its way, does not want it to happen. That said, the emergence of the world's most populous nation from the ruins of the late Mao period faces other powers with a situation never experienced before. A country that is still relatively poor now houses the world's second biggest economy, with foreign exchange reserves of more than $3tn, making it a major contributor to paying for the federal deficit of the richest country on earth.America wants to engage with China, but it also wants to hedge its bets in case things turn sour. So, Obama launched an initiative last year to buttress the US position in the Pacific, which brings it into potential confrontation with Beijing \u2013 the Trans Pacific Partnership (TPP) being pushed by Washington would not include the People's Republic. (Since it may well not extend to Japan or South Korea either, it is, in fact, probably dead in the water.) The naval build-up by the People's Liberation Army arouses fears among some commentators \u2013 and anxious warnings from the arms industry \u2013 that China will come to resemble pre-first world war Germany, even though its military capacity is far, far below that of the US. China, for its part, knows that its growth has drawn heavily on the appetite in the west for its cheap goods and that it has no interest in trade wars with the US. In an allusion to commercial tensions, Xi told former senior US officials, including Henry Kissinger, at his first meeting in Washington:\"This year marks the election year of the United States. I believe no one of insight from the US side would like to see that the election factors would have a regrettable impact on the development of ties between the two countries \u2026 We should deal with friction and differences in bilateral economic and trade cooperation in the spirit of seeking mutual benefits and win-win results through a positive and constructive way.\"But old, protective suspicions regularly emerge from Beijing, augmented by rising nationalism on the back of economic growth. Hu Jintao, the man who will hand over to Xi, told a Communist party plenum last October:\"We must clearly see that international hostile forces are intensifying the strategic plot of Westernizing and dividing China \u2026 We should deeply understand the seriousness and complexity of the ideological struggle, always sound the alarms and remain vigilant and take forceful measures to be on guard and respond.\"In this uncertain context, Xi is, himself, a source of uncertainty. Son of a Mao-era vice-premier, who was purged during the Cultural Revolution and then rehabilitated to supervise the economic development of Guangdong province, Xi has worked his way up the bureaucracy of the state and party, and was elevated to the supreme decision-making body, the standing committee, of the politburo in 2007. Ask people in Beijing how he got to the top and the answer is that all the many interest groups in China are comfortable with him. He has been careful not to express any opinion that deviates from party orthodoxy.So, on current showing, Xi does not seem to be the leader who will be ready, or able, to undertake the structural reforms China needs in the coming years. He will have to deal with a society that is evolving beyond the constraints of the party state system \u2013 and with new tensions, as demonstrated by the ongoing imbroglio around the rock star of Chinese politics, Bo Xilai, in the mega-municipality of Chongqing. China has enormous problems, ranging from the environment to the legal system, through corruption and a lack of trust in authority of all kinds.Those domestic challenges, rather than foreign relations, will be the key to China's development, as it tries to move away from the old growth model. The world will have to reconcile itself to sitting on the sidelines and watching as the story is played out in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangdong, Chongqing and a hundred other places far from the White House.", "tags": ["Xi Jinping", "China", "US news", "Obama administration", "Barack Obama", "Joe Biden", "Hillary Clinton", "US foreign policy", "US military", "Tibet", "Human rights", "European Union", "Eurozone crisis", "Hu Jintao"], "title": "America's apprehensive China diplomacy | Jonathan Fenby"},{"date": "2012-03-06T13:59:07Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has grown increasingly friendly towards Europe as the EU's sovereign debt crisis unfolds, and it is gently but steadily advancing its pawns in the single market. There are still few Chinese-owned factories in Europe, but Beijing has been advancing its interests over the last three years.China first focused its attention on Greece, the aim being to make Piraeus, in the Athens suburbs, the main point for goods entering the European market. The port is now dominated by the China Ocean Shipping Company (Cosco), which has been operating two terminals there since 2009. In 2010 Prime Minister Wen Jiabao kicked off a European visit there, meeting policy makers and business leaders from France, Portugal, Italy, Belgium, and above all from Greece.Since Cosco's arrival in Greece, exports to China have increased by 50%. Beijing wants to step up investments in the country, in particular in telecommunications, banking, car manufacture, railway infrastructure, property, catering, electronics, textiles and glass. But as well as investments linked to Greece's current financial woes \u2013 with central banks offering risky, but high-yield bonds \u2013 or company takeovers, the Chinese are keen to locate production facilities on the European mainland.Last month the car manufacturer Great Wall Motors fired up an assembly line in Bulgaria. \"It's the first Chinese car factory to produce in Europe for Europe,\" said an executive from the firm's Bulgarian partner company.As yet there are no Chinese production plants in France but there are plans to open a Franco-Chinese business park near Ch\u00e2teauroux, in western France. It will specialise in assembling parts and sub-systems manufactured at low cost in China. Thanks to this partnership, goods will qualify for a \"Made in Europe\" label, thought to be more reassuring than its Chinese counterpart.These \"companies must remedy the poor or nonexistent brand recognition they enjoy abroad,\" urged a report published in 2009 by France's economy, industry and employment ministry, \"and build an image for quality thanks to products at least as good as those of European or foreign competitors already operating in Europe. They need to rise above the often negative image associated with their goods, particularly as European consumers tend to assume low prices go hand in hand with poor quality.\"Herv\u00e9 Solignac Lecomte, head of international trade at HSBC France, endorses this view. \"Chinese companies want to dispel the 'low-grade' image of their manufactured goods. So they are trying to improve their position in the value chain by relocating all or part of their output in Europe,\" he says.Chinese manufacturers had suffered some serious setbacks before starting production in Europe. In 2011 Poland tore up a contract with China Overseas Engineering Group Co Ltd for the construction of a motorway between Warsaw and Berlin, only a year after the start of the project. The Polish public works department cited \"delays\" to explain its decision.Now instead of just operating as the workshop of the world, while staying at a safe distance from the markets \u2013 and consumers \u2013 it wants to win over, China is rethinking its strategy. \"GWM's Bulgarian plant is located close to potential customers and distribution channels,\" Lecomte explains.This is borne out by China's determination \"to invest primarily in sectors that will boost its foreign trade, but also facilitate international trade in general, areas such as air, rail and sea transport, infrastructure, and the associated logistics services and storage facilities,\" Lecomte adds.\"China wants to secure multiple points of access to Europe for its products. It's a more proactive and potentially less costly strategy, particularly with the high price of oil, which substantially adds to the cost of freight,\" Lecomte says. France has adopted the same approach by relocating vehicle production to Morocco.While companies may relocate production facilities, the centre of operations has remains fixed. \"The [regional] headquarters of Chinese firms are often located in London, which is Europe's main financial centre. But decisions are still taken in China and the system is still centralised. The yardstick is always the company at home in China,\" Lecomte says.\"We are currently seeing the installation of Chinese production units in Europe,\" he adds. \"But I think that ultimately China will set up more integrated facilities here, with decision-making powers as well as production.\"This article originally appeared in Le MondeGreat Wall Motors and its Bulgarian counterpart Litex launched production of three models at their Bahovitsa plant last month.GWM aims to manufacture 50,000 vehicles a year there. For now the factory is forecasting \"several thousand\" city cars, saloons and pick-ups, with prices ranging from \u20ac8,200 to \u20ac14,600 ($10,800 to $19,270). The parts will be imported from China and assembled in Bulgaria, permitting duty-free access to the European market.Just as western manufacturers want a share of the oriental cake, their Chinese counterparts are queuing up to locate to Europe.The GWM factory is not the first Chinese plant in Europe. MG, which was bought up by Nanjing-SAIC in 2005, assembles its MG TF and MG6 models at Longbridge in the UK. Similarly the Chinese manufacturer Geely, which bought Volvo and Manganese Bronze in 2010, is now rolling out its EC7 saloon.General Motors baulked at selling Opel and Saab to Chinese firms, respectively BAIC in 2009, and Pang Da and Youngman in 2011. But the latter may sale now go ahead as the Swedish brand is in receivership.By the end of 2012 DR Motors of Italy aims to produce Chery models at Fiat's former factory in Sicily. In partnership with Israel Corp, the same Chinese company is developing a new brand, Qoros, for European markets.Philippe Jacqu\u00e9 Le Monde", "tags": ["China", "Business", "Automotive industry", "Manufacturing sector", "Europe", "Bulgaria"], "title": "\"Made in China\" no more"},{"date": "2012-03-27T07:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "It is evident to me having spent a lot of time in China that for the majority of UK universities, their overarching brand positioning is irrelevant to the Chinese market. The differentiating factors, all relevant in the UK, are invalid and misunderstood by the students they seek to attract as well as the agents that represent them in the marketplace.Chinese students have two main influencers when researching UK universities; the league tables, most specifically a university's performance in a particular subject area, and word of mouth. Note that US universities have been building their reputations in Asia for around 10 years longer than those in the UK, which means they benefit more from this type of exposure.Watching Chinese students search the web is interesting in itself. Starting normally with Chinese search engine Baidu, they invariably look for a \"top UK university\" in a particular subject, not a specific place and not your establishment. The websites they are most likely referred to are those of agents where there is very little discrimination between the offer of one establishment and another.Even if potential students find you, say on your website, the brand positioning and associated messages you have worked hard to develop in the context of the UK market constitute an unfocused proposition in China.For a university site aimed at the Chinese market to be effective, it has to be selective in its choice of featured people, places, products and performance. The rationale for including facts and accompanying messages around these categories must be evidence based \u2013 best, or better, than the rest\u2013 as well as wrapped and presented in a culturally-nuanced layer of understanding.Unless you are Oxford, Cambridge or the LSE, or you already have a regional physical presence in China like the University of Nottingham, hard editorial decisions need to be made which will require vision, agility, leadership and commitment.Promote only your best productsIf you are consistently highly rated in a particular subject, use this as your springboard. Do not however, assume that your existing undergraduate programme in a certain subject is desirable in China. You may have to tweak it for the market. A simple example is to ensure that a required/featured module in any programme aimed at China is Business and/or Management as these subjects are highly valued. If you can add into this supporting information about a number of star Chinese alumni, or lecturers, then so much the better.International recruitment relies on everyoneIn order to present yourself to the market you will have to enlist or at least understand the relevant content and resources available across your organisation. The international office needs to liaise with, and have the authority to expect help from, your alumni, communications and student services departments as well as the academic research and teaching community.Be present on Chinese digital channelsIn order to bypass the agents' websites and ensure your tailored messages are presented correctly, it is necessary to have a presence on Chinese digital channels. To do this you will need to recruit Chinese partners to set up a domain for you as well as intervene, monitor the buzz and seed social media channels such as Weibo. This also cements your partnership with agents as any microsite you might develop will ensure they fully understand your proposition, how to articulate it and how to engage with you.Understand your target regionCommitment is crucial in building your reputation, so it is essential that you understand your targeted region and develop a business plan for its development. Do the sums: costs and benefits. Such a plan should not rely solely on digital, since as we said there is little substitute in the minds of the potential Chinese student for a word of mouth recommendation. Get your star lecturers over to the region you are aiming at, build existing relationships with Chinese academics, encourage staff and student exchanges.This may all seem obvious, but the key to its success is to do it properly. It is to move from the traditional sales approach to a marketing approach that drives sales. A Chinese version of your UK website will not have the same effect as one crafted for the market. Sending your international staff on recruitment trips to HE fairs across China, although important, will not result in a reputational upsurge. Most importantly, trying to sell everything to all of China will not mean your brand is recognised, or respected.In order to be effective UK institutions need to be selective in their choice of market and their proposition to that market. Only once that reputation is built, will UK institutions be in a position to leverage it more widely, and across more of their core disciplines.Paul Hoskins is the founder and chairman of Precedent, a digital communications agency working in the higher education sector. He tweets at @precedentcomms.", "tags": ["Higher Education Network", "Communications and marketing", "International", "Distinctiveness", "Higher education", "Education", "International students"], "title": "How to recruit international students in China"},{"date": "2012-03-20T17:47:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "In the clearest sign yet that the heady days of China's manufacturing boom are over, BHP Billiton, the world's biggest mining company, said iron-ore demand from China was \"flattening\".The comments fuelled fears that the engine behind the global economic recovery is slowing down, and triggered a sell-off in mining stocks. Fresnillo, Antofagasta and Rio Tinto were among the worst casualties, all trailing near the bottom of the FTSE 100 index. BHP shares ended the day down 4% at \u00a319.65.China has been hoovering up stocks of iron ore, which is used to make steel, as it undergoes a modern-day industrial revolution. Among the main beneficiaries have been iron-ore miners in Australia, which have boosted output from 80m tonnes a decade ago to nearly 500m tonnes today. But demand is starting to slow as Beijing has moved to cool its economy.The Chinese premier, Wen Jiabao, said last week that he would keep measures in place during his last year in office to deflate asset bubbles in the country. Beijing has forecast that the Chinese economy will grow by 7.5% this year, well below the 9.2% growth last year and 10.4% in 2010.Speaking ahead of the annual global iron ore and steel forecast conference in Perth, Ian Ashby, president of iron ore at BHP, said he was confident China would meet its five-year economic growth targets but said iron-ore demand would soon hit \"single digits, if it's not already there\".\"The [Chinese] economy is shifting, it's changing,\" he said. \"Steel growth rates will flatten and they have flattened.\"The country's annual steel output was still expected to rise by about 60% by 2025, he said, arguing that the drivers for growth were still in place. By 2050 nearly three-quarters of China's 1.4 billion population is expected to be urbanised, he said, compared with less than half in 2010. Car production is also forecast to shoot up by 155% by 2025 to 28m units a year.BHP said it was ready to respond to cooling demand but would still push ahead with its ambitious $10bn (\u00a36.3bn) expansion plan, mining 165m-170m tonnes of ore a year. The company is the world's third-largest iron-ore miner behind Vale and Rio Tinto. The latter is also sticking with plans to raise capacity from its mines in western Australia's Pilbara iron-ore belt, betting on a soft landing for the Chinese economy.Analysts say even single-digit growth in Chinese ore demand should be enough to soak up the planned output expansion.Iron ore sold for $130-$147 a tonne over the last four months.A report out on Monday predicted that global demand for iron ore would double to 3.5bn tonnes a year by 2030, with Chinese appetite continuing to drive the market, albeit at a slower pace than during the last decade.The report, from the Perth-based Intierra Resource Intelligence, also said that Indian iron-ore exports could decline as the country's steel companies expand. There is a tussle between Indian iron mining companies, which claim there is enough of the commodity for both exports and increased domestic steel production, and the steel lobby, which wants to see exports curbed.Paul Gray, analyst at Wood Mackenzie, said: \"Certainly the rate of growth in Chinese demand is slowing, but the growth is from an ever-increasing base so the number of iron units required continues to rise.\"", "tags": ["BHP Billiton", "Mining", "China", "Commodities", "Business", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China slowdown fears raised by BHP Billiton"},{"date": "2012-06-22T07:30:01Z", "country": "china", "content": "Like all Chinese children, I was taught at school the Chinese Communist party's prediction about religion: as society progresses, religion will slowly fade from people's lives until it finally disappears. Mao bluntly said that religion was a poison and tried to wipe out religious practices.But the opposite has happened. In the past three decades, as our economy has flourished and personal freedoms have increased, religions of all forms have started to thrive.Yet instead of joining officially sanctioned churches, the Chinese have been flocking to unofficial houses of worship \u2013 the so-called house churches, with up to 100 million members. While technically illegal, the house churches have been largely tolerated in recent years thanks to relaxed control and the government's realisation that religion can be a moral force to be reckoned with.My former maid belongs to this fast-expanding community. After we got to know each other, she opened up and told me about her spiritual journey.As a child, she was baptised with her sickly mother at a church near her home village outside Luoyang, in central China's Henan province. It belonged to the government-sanctioned Three-Self Patriotic Movement of Protestant Church in China. After her mother's death, she forgot about God until she migrated to Beijing in 2003. She started out by selling clothes, working long hours for meagre pay. Feeling miserable, lonely and empty, she went to an official church a few times. But it made little impact on her life.\"You turn up when you like; if you don't, no one cares,\" she recalled.Then she accidentally overheard a pastor from a house church preaching: \"If you are a good Christian, you'll be transformed into an angel or you'll fly up to heaven after your body perishes.\"She became hooked. Soon she was baptised, again, and joined the house church called \"God's Church\", a protestant of some sort. Four times a week, rain or sunshine, she goes to a pastor's house in our neighbourhood called Wine God Bridge Village on the northeast corner of Beijing, for service and Bible study. There, she found a home she had longed for.The statistics are hard to come by but Protestantism is generally regarded as the fastest growing. Before China's reforms and opening up, there were only 2 million Christians but the figure has increased 40- to 50-fold in the past three decades. According to Frank Lee, a Chinese academic who has studied the development of house churches in China, there are currently 20 million registered with the Three-Self Church, whereas the house churches boast 10 million Catholics and up to 70 million Protestants. Others put the figures even higher. Farmers and migrant workers make up the bulk.In his book The Next Christendom, Philip Jenkins finds that countries in the southern hemisphere where Christianity has thrived most successfully are those experiencing the greatest economic and demographic difficulties. China seems to showcase such a pattern. The migrant workers have benefited least from the economic reforms; and being physically and emotionally displaced, and usually fending for themselves, their lives are most unsettled in the cities. They have greater need for a community to anchor their lives and to bring hope and peace.The house church fits the bill. Each congregation is an independent social organisation, providing a badly needed infrastructure and services for the members. In some poorer areas, the churches even offer basic medical care and education.In my former maid's God's Church, the members refer to each other as brothers and sisters and help each other with jobs and domestic issues, just like siblings. There are about two dozen in the congregation, all migrant workers. One 30-year-old would-be-artist from Guangdong, met her seven years ago when he was struggling to put his feet down in the capital. \"People start to look for God when they are not happy,\" he said.The members stay clear of the official church, or the \"big church\" as they call it, because they believe that the true religion should be free from politics.The Chinese Communist party has been struggling as it tries to balance making use of religion as a moral force with its habitual inclination to control it. Unfortunately, the party's fear of any independent organisation wins out often. Shouwang, a large house church in Beijing with 1,000 members, attempted to establish its own venue in 2010 but failed. More disturbing was the sentencing of a house church pastor in Shandong province to a labour camp last July for supposedly illegal gatherings.I am a firm atheist, but I appreciate how my grandmother, a Buddhist, had always drawn strength from her religion as she endured the loss of her parents, famine and war. And the benefits of spiritual belonging are crystal clear every time I see my former maid. \"I feel a lot happier now,\" she claims.Instead of curtailing the growth of house churches, the Chinese authorities should accept the religious movement as a positive force. There is an ongoing discussion here in China about the decline of morality as our country has become increasingly money-worshipping. So the tugs and pulls of modern life tend to leave any nation's people searching for a spiritual outlet.China's leaders constantly speak of building a \"harmonious society\" \u2013 what better way to do it then to involve churches?\u2022 Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree", "tags": ["Christianity", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Religion"], "title": "China should embrace house churches | Lijia Zhang"},{"date": "2012-06-22T07:30:01Z", "country": "china", "content": "Like all Chinese children, I was taught at school the Chinese Communist party's prediction about religion: as society progresses, religion will slowly fade from people's lives until it finally disappears. Mao bluntly said that religion was a poison and tried to wipe out religious practices.But the opposite has happened. In the past three decades, as our economy has flourished and personal freedoms have increased, religions of all forms have started to thrive.Yet instead of joining officially sanctioned churches, the Chinese have been flocking to unofficial houses of worship \u2013 the so-called house churches, with up to 100 million members. While technically illegal, the house churches have been largely tolerated in recent years thanks to relaxed control and the government's realisation that religion can be a moral force to be reckoned with.My former maid belongs to this fast-expanding community. After we got to know each other, she opened up and told me about her spiritual journey.As a child, she was baptised with her sickly mother at a church near her home village outside Luoyang, in central China's Henan province. It belonged to the government-sanctioned Three-Self Patriotic Movement of Protestant Church in China. After her mother's death, she forgot about God until she migrated to Beijing in 2003. She started out by selling clothes, working long hours for meagre pay. Feeling miserable, lonely and empty, she went to an official church a few times. But it made little impact on her life.\"You turn up when you like; if you don't, no one cares,\" she recalled.Then she accidentally overheard a pastor from a house church preaching: \"If you are a good Christian, you'll be transformed into an angel or you'll fly up to heaven after your body perishes.\"She became hooked. Soon she was baptised, again, and joined the house church called \"God's Church\", a protestant of some sort. Four times a week, rain or sunshine, she goes to a pastor's house in our neighbourhood called Wine God Bridge Village on the northeast corner of Beijing, for service and Bible study. There, she found a home she had longed for.The statistics are hard to come by but Protestantism is generally regarded as the fastest growing. Before China's reforms and opening up, there were only 2 million Christians but the figure has increased 40- to 50-fold in the past three decades. According to Frank Lee, a Chinese academic who has studied the development of house churches in China, there are currently 20 million registered with the Three-Self Church, whereas the house churches boast 10 million Catholics and up to 70 million Protestants. Others put the figures even higher. Farmers and migrant workers make up the bulk.In his book The Next Christendom, Philip Jenkins finds that countries in the southern hemisphere where Christianity has thrived most successfully are those experiencing the greatest economic and demographic difficulties. China seems to showcase such a pattern. The migrant workers have benefited least from the economic reforms; and being physically and emotionally displaced, and usually fending for themselves, their lives are most unsettled in the cities. They have greater need for a community to anchor their lives and to bring hope and peace.The house church fits the bill. Each congregation is an independent social organisation, providing a badly needed infrastructure and services for the members. In some poorer areas, the churches even offer basic medical care and education.In my former maid's God's Church, the members refer to each other as brothers and sisters and help each other with jobs and domestic issues, just like siblings. There are about two dozen in the congregation, all migrant workers. One 30-year-old would-be-artist from Guangdong, met her seven years ago when he was struggling to put his feet down in the capital. \"People start to look for God when they are not happy,\" he said.The members stay clear of the official church, or the \"big church\" as they call it, because they believe that the true religion should be free from politics.The Chinese Communist party has been struggling as it tries to balance making use of religion as a moral force with its habitual inclination to control it. Unfortunately, the party's fear of any independent organisation wins out often. Shouwang, a large house church in Beijing with 1,000 members, attempted to establish its own venue in 2010 but failed. More disturbing was the sentencing of a house church pastor in Shandong province to a labour camp last July for supposedly illegal gatherings.I am a firm atheist, but I appreciate how my grandmother, a Buddhist, had always drawn strength from her religion as she endured the loss of her parents, famine and war. And the benefits of spiritual belonging are crystal clear every time I see my former maid. \"I feel a lot happier now,\" she claims.Instead of curtailing the growth of house churches, the Chinese authorities should accept the religious movement as a positive force. There is an ongoing discussion here in China about the decline of morality as our country has become increasingly money-worshipping. So the tugs and pulls of modern life tend to leave any nation's people searching for a spiritual outlet.China's leaders constantly speak of building a \"harmonious society\" \u2013 what better way to do it then to involve churches?\u2022 Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree", "tags": ["Christianity", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Religion"], "title": "China should embrace house churches | Lijia Zhang"},{"date": "2012-05-03T13:28:27Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has gobbled up a majority stake in Weetabix. China's state-owned Bright Food announced on Thursday that it had bought a 60% stake in the 80-year-old breakfast cereal.The deal values Weetabix, which is produced in the small town of Burton Latimer, near Kettering, Northamptonshire, at \u00a31.2bn.Zongnan Wang, chairman of Bright Food, said he was \"excited\" about bringing Weetabix to breakfast tables across China and Asia, where western eating habits are slowly catching on as wealthier citizens begin to shun traditional rice and steamed bread.\"We are excited by the many growth opportunities for the business, especially in international markets, and Asia in particular. With Bright Food's strong resources and our expertise in both the Chinese and broader international markets, we are excellently placed to develop the Weetabix business,\" Wang said.Despite Weetabix being derided by a head chef at the Savoy as \"cakes that you give to dogs\", Weetabix's chief executive, Giles Turrell, said he believed there were \"substantial opportunities to further grow the business internationally, in North America, Asia and beyond\".Lyndon Lea, a partner at Lion Capital, said: \"We are excited to continue our journey with the Weetabix brand, which has been an enormously successful investment, as we extend the business into China in partnership with Bright Food.\"The nation's favourite breakfast cereal, which accounts for 7% of UK cereal sales, was family owned until 2004, when it was bought by a Texas private equity firm. It was later sold to another private equity firm, Lion Capital, which will retain a 40% stake in the company, which also owns Alpen and Ready brek.Weetabix is exported to more than 80 countries, employs nearly 2,000 people and generates annual sales of more than \u00a3420m. Britons are still its biggest fans eating an average of 336 Weetabix a year each.The cereal is the latest in a long line of western food groups that have fallen prey to the Chinese. Last year Bright Food bought a 75% stake in Australia's Manassen Food for more than $500m and its dairy business bought a 51% stake in New Zealand diary Synlait.Bright Food had also tried to buy stakes in United Biscuits, which makes Jaffa Cakes and Hula Hoops, and French yoghurt group Yoplait.The deal comes as a Chinese retailer sealed the acquisition of Savile Row tailor Gieves & Hawkes from another Chinese firm.", "tags": ["Food & drink industry", "Business", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "UK news", "Food & drink", "Breakfast", "Life and style"], "title": "China buys Weetabix majority stake"},{"date": "2012-06-22T07:30:01Z", "country": "china", "content": "Like all Chinese children, I was taught at school the Chinese Communist party's prediction about religion: as society progresses, religion will slowly fade from people's lives until it finally disappears. Mao bluntly said that religion was a poison and tried to wipe out religious practices.But the opposite has happened. In the past three decades, as our economy has flourished and personal freedoms have increased, religions of all forms have started to thrive.Yet instead of joining officially sanctioned churches, the Chinese have been flocking to unofficial houses of worship \u2013 the so-called house churches, with up to 100 million members. While technically illegal, the house churches have been largely tolerated in recent years thanks to relaxed control and the government's realisation that religion can be a moral force to be reckoned with.My former maid belongs to this fast-expanding community. After we got to know each other, she opened up and told me about her spiritual journey.As a child, she was baptised with her sickly mother at a church near her home village outside Luoyang, in central China's Henan province. It belonged to the government-sanctioned Three-Self Patriotic Movement of Protestant Church in China. After her mother's death, she forgot about God until she migrated to Beijing in 2003. She started out by selling clothes, working long hours for meagre pay. Feeling miserable, lonely and empty, she went to an official church a few times. But it made little impact on her life.\"You turn up when you like; if you don't, no one cares,\" she recalled.Then she accidentally overheard a pastor from a house church preaching: \"If you are a good Christian, you'll be transformed into an angel or you'll fly up to heaven after your body perishes.\"She became hooked. Soon she was baptised, again, and joined the house church called \"God's Church\", a protestant of some sort. Four times a week, rain or sunshine, she goes to a pastor's house in our neighbourhood called Wine God Bridge Village on the northeast corner of Beijing, for service and Bible study. There, she found a home she had longed for.The statistics are hard to come by but Protestantism is generally regarded as the fastest growing. Before China's reforms and opening up, there were only 2 million Christians but the figure has increased 40- to 50-fold in the past three decades. According to Frank Lee, a Chinese academic who has studied the development of house churches in China, there are currently 20 million registered with the Three-Self Church, whereas the house churches boast 10 million Catholics and up to 70 million Protestants. Others put the figures even higher. Farmers and migrant workers make up the bulk.In his book The Next Christendom, Philip Jenkins finds that countries in the southern hemisphere where Christianity has thrived most successfully are those experiencing the greatest economic and demographic difficulties. China seems to showcase such a pattern. The migrant workers have benefited least from the economic reforms; and being physically and emotionally displaced, and usually fending for themselves, their lives are most unsettled in the cities. They have greater need for a community to anchor their lives and to bring hope and peace.The house church fits the bill. Each congregation is an independent social organisation, providing a badly needed infrastructure and services for the members. In some poorer areas, the churches even offer basic medical care and education.In my former maid's God's Church, the members refer to each other as brothers and sisters and help each other with jobs and domestic issues, just like siblings. There are about two dozen in the congregation, all migrant workers. One 30-year-old would-be-artist from Guangdong, met her seven years ago when he was struggling to put his feet down in the capital. \"People start to look for God when they are not happy,\" he said.The members stay clear of the official church, or the \"big church\" as they call it, because they believe that the true religion should be free from politics.The Chinese Communist party has been struggling as it tries to balance making use of religion as a moral force with its habitual inclination to control it. Unfortunately, the party's fear of any independent organisation wins out often. Shouwang, a large house church in Beijing with 1,000 members, attempted to establish its own venue in 2010 but failed. More disturbing was the sentencing of a house church pastor in Shandong province to a labour camp last July for supposedly illegal gatherings.I am a firm atheist, but I appreciate how my grandmother, a Buddhist, had always drawn strength from her religion as she endured the loss of her parents, famine and war. And the benefits of spiritual belonging are crystal clear every time I see my former maid. \"I feel a lot happier now,\" she claims.Instead of curtailing the growth of house churches, the Chinese authorities should accept the religious movement as a positive force. There is an ongoing discussion here in China about the decline of morality as our country has become increasingly money-worshipping. So the tugs and pulls of modern life tend to leave any nation's people searching for a spiritual outlet.China's leaders constantly speak of building a \"harmonious society\" \u2013 what better way to do it then to involve churches?\u2022 Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree", "tags": ["Christianity", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Religion"], "title": "China should embrace house churches | Lijia Zhang"},{"date": "2012-05-03T13:28:27Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has gobbled up a majority stake in Weetabix. China's state-owned Bright Food announced on Thursday that it had bought a 60% stake in the 80-year-old breakfast cereal.The deal values Weetabix, which is produced in the small town of Burton Latimer, near Kettering, Northamptonshire, at \u00a31.2bn.Zongnan Wang, chairman of Bright Food, said he was \"excited\" about bringing Weetabix to breakfast tables across China and Asia, where western eating habits are slowly catching on as wealthier citizens begin to shun traditional rice and steamed bread.\"We are excited by the many growth opportunities for the business, especially in international markets, and Asia in particular. With Bright Food's strong resources and our expertise in both the Chinese and broader international markets, we are excellently placed to develop the Weetabix business,\" Wang said.Despite Weetabix being derided by a head chef at the Savoy as \"cakes that you give to dogs\", Weetabix's chief executive, Giles Turrell, said he believed there were \"substantial opportunities to further grow the business internationally, in North America, Asia and beyond\".Lyndon Lea, a partner at Lion Capital, said: \"We are excited to continue our journey with the Weetabix brand, which has been an enormously successful investment, as we extend the business into China in partnership with Bright Food.\"The nation's favourite breakfast cereal, which accounts for 7% of UK cereal sales, was family owned until 2004, when it was bought by a Texas private equity firm. It was later sold to another private equity firm, Lion Capital, which will retain a 40% stake in the company, which also owns Alpen and Ready brek.Weetabix is exported to more than 80 countries, employs nearly 2,000 people and generates annual sales of more than \u00a3420m. Britons are still its biggest fans eating an average of 336 Weetabix a year each.The cereal is the latest in a long line of western food groups that have fallen prey to the Chinese. Last year Bright Food bought a 75% stake in Australia's Manassen Food for more than $500m and its dairy business bought a 51% stake in New Zealand diary Synlait.Bright Food had also tried to buy stakes in United Biscuits, which makes Jaffa Cakes and Hula Hoops, and French yoghurt group Yoplait.The deal comes as a Chinese retailer sealed the acquisition of Savile Row tailor Gieves & Hawkes from another Chinese firm.", "tags": ["Food & drink industry", "Business", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "UK news", "Food & drink", "Breakfast", "Life and style"], "title": "China buys Weetabix majority stake"},{"date": "2012-05-01T13:02:15Z", "country": "china", "content": "Without a car, the only practical way to travel from Urumqi to Tianchi is by tourist bus, which passes the gritty plains of Xinjiang desert and rises into the sweet air of the Tian Shan mountain range, known in China as the Celestial mountains.It's not a direct journey. First stop was at a staged riverside Kazakh settlement. Here Han tourists were treated to bowls of kumys or fermented milk at low dastarkhan tables, and dancers in fluorescent, sequinned costumes and tubeteika hats, more reminiscent of 1001 Arabian Nights. Many men rose to dance, pawing the dancers as if drunk, clearly delighted to have met Kazakhs, one of nine ethnic groups living in this north-western region.At Tianchi the bus neatly fitted into rows of idling coaches. Here the Tian Shan majestically revealed green valleys and splendid peaks. To navigate the heights to Tianchi a stairway and gondola were offered.At the top we found a lake; hugging a cove were souffle-like yurts. A Kazakh greeted us with a gold-toothed smile and invited us to dine with her.That evening we did. According to custom, females were seated on the right, men on the left. The lady's son, Taras, poured chai and explained that of the 1.5 million Kazakhs in China, many lived a traditional lifestyle, moving pasture annually, raising stocks of goats, sheep and horses. What had he seen change?\"My children are studying at university in Urumqi. My mother didn't have that opportunity. After Tianchi opened to mass tourism, I established my business. In summer I live here, showing tourists our lifestyle, customs and pastures by horse.\"His mother presented plov, rice and cooked tomatoes or mutton. As we ate, Taras explained that his daughter had recently married. She'd chosen her husband who had been found suitable three months later at a family conference. The matter of a bride price, typically around $5,000, was then raised.One thousand Kazakhs had attended his daughter's wedding. A horse and four sheep had been slaughtered. Fish and kilos of plov and salad had crowned each table.Taras asked, \"How many animals were slaughtered for your wedding?\"Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. They should focus on giving our readers a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send submissions to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["China", "China holidays"], "title": "Letter from China: Kazakh life"},{"date": "2012-06-22T07:30:01Z", "country": "china", "content": "Like all Chinese children, I was taught at school the Chinese Communist party's prediction about religion: as society progresses, religion will slowly fade from people's lives until it finally disappears. Mao bluntly said that religion was a poison and tried to wipe out religious practices.But the opposite has happened. In the past three decades, as our economy has flourished and personal freedoms have increased, religions of all forms have started to thrive.Yet instead of joining officially sanctioned churches, the Chinese have been flocking to unofficial houses of worship \u2013 the so-called house churches, with up to 100 million members. While technically illegal, the house churches have been largely tolerated in recent years thanks to relaxed control and the government's realisation that religion can be a moral force to be reckoned with.My former maid belongs to this fast-expanding community. After we got to know each other, she opened up and told me about her spiritual journey.As a child, she was baptised with her sickly mother at a church near her home village outside Luoyang, in central China's Henan province. It belonged to the government-sanctioned Three-Self Patriotic Movement of Protestant Church in China. After her mother's death, she forgot about God until she migrated to Beijing in 2003. She started out by selling clothes, working long hours for meagre pay. Feeling miserable, lonely and empty, she went to an official church a few times. But it made little impact on her life.\"You turn up when you like; if you don't, no one cares,\" she recalled.Then she accidentally overheard a pastor from a house church preaching: \"If you are a good Christian, you'll be transformed into an angel or you'll fly up to heaven after your body perishes.\"She became hooked. Soon she was baptised, again, and joined the house church called \"God's Church\", a protestant of some sort. Four times a week, rain or sunshine, she goes to a pastor's house in our neighbourhood called Wine God Bridge Village on the northeast corner of Beijing, for service and Bible study. There, she found a home she had longed for.The statistics are hard to come by but Protestantism is generally regarded as the fastest growing. Before China's reforms and opening up, there were only 2 million Christians but the figure has increased 40- to 50-fold in the past three decades. According to Frank Lee, a Chinese academic who has studied the development of house churches in China, there are currently 20 million registered with the Three-Self Church, whereas the house churches boast 10 million Catholics and up to 70 million Protestants. Others put the figures even higher. Farmers and migrant workers make up the bulk.In his book The Next Christendom, Philip Jenkins finds that countries in the southern hemisphere where Christianity has thrived most successfully are those experiencing the greatest economic and demographic difficulties. China seems to showcase such a pattern. The migrant workers have benefited least from the economic reforms; and being physically and emotionally displaced, and usually fending for themselves, their lives are most unsettled in the cities. They have greater need for a community to anchor their lives and to bring hope and peace.The house church fits the bill. Each congregation is an independent social organisation, providing a badly needed infrastructure and services for the members. In some poorer areas, the churches even offer basic medical care and education.In my former maid's God's Church, the members refer to each other as brothers and sisters and help each other with jobs and domestic issues, just like siblings. There are about two dozen in the congregation, all migrant workers. One 30-year-old would-be-artist from Guangdong, met her seven years ago when he was struggling to put his feet down in the capital. \"People start to look for God when they are not happy,\" he said.The members stay clear of the official church, or the \"big church\" as they call it, because they believe that the true religion should be free from politics.The Chinese Communist party has been struggling as it tries to balance making use of religion as a moral force with its habitual inclination to control it. Unfortunately, the party's fear of any independent organisation wins out often. Shouwang, a large house church in Beijing with 1,000 members, attempted to establish its own venue in 2010 but failed. More disturbing was the sentencing of a house church pastor in Shandong province to a labour camp last July for supposedly illegal gatherings.I am a firm atheist, but I appreciate how my grandmother, a Buddhist, had always drawn strength from her religion as she endured the loss of her parents, famine and war. And the benefits of spiritual belonging are crystal clear every time I see my former maid. \"I feel a lot happier now,\" she claims.Instead of curtailing the growth of house churches, the Chinese authorities should accept the religious movement as a positive force. There is an ongoing discussion here in China about the decline of morality as our country has become increasingly money-worshipping. So the tugs and pulls of modern life tend to leave any nation's people searching for a spiritual outlet.China's leaders constantly speak of building a \"harmonious society\" \u2013 what better way to do it then to involve churches?\u2022 Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree", "tags": ["Christianity", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Religion"], "title": "China should embrace house churches | Lijia Zhang"},{"date": "2012-05-03T13:28:27Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has gobbled up a majority stake in Weetabix. China's state-owned Bright Food announced on Thursday that it had bought a 60% stake in the 80-year-old breakfast cereal.The deal values Weetabix, which is produced in the small town of Burton Latimer, near Kettering, Northamptonshire, at \u00a31.2bn.Zongnan Wang, chairman of Bright Food, said he was \"excited\" about bringing Weetabix to breakfast tables across China and Asia, where western eating habits are slowly catching on as wealthier citizens begin to shun traditional rice and steamed bread.\"We are excited by the many growth opportunities for the business, especially in international markets, and Asia in particular. With Bright Food's strong resources and our expertise in both the Chinese and broader international markets, we are excellently placed to develop the Weetabix business,\" Wang said.Despite Weetabix being derided by a head chef at the Savoy as \"cakes that you give to dogs\", Weetabix's chief executive, Giles Turrell, said he believed there were \"substantial opportunities to further grow the business internationally, in North America, Asia and beyond\".Lyndon Lea, a partner at Lion Capital, said: \"We are excited to continue our journey with the Weetabix brand, which has been an enormously successful investment, as we extend the business into China in partnership with Bright Food.\"The nation's favourite breakfast cereal, which accounts for 7% of UK cereal sales, was family owned until 2004, when it was bought by a Texas private equity firm. It was later sold to another private equity firm, Lion Capital, which will retain a 40% stake in the company, which also owns Alpen and Ready brek.Weetabix is exported to more than 80 countries, employs nearly 2,000 people and generates annual sales of more than \u00a3420m. Britons are still its biggest fans eating an average of 336 Weetabix a year each.The cereal is the latest in a long line of western food groups that have fallen prey to the Chinese. Last year Bright Food bought a 75% stake in Australia's Manassen Food for more than $500m and its dairy business bought a 51% stake in New Zealand diary Synlait.Bright Food had also tried to buy stakes in United Biscuits, which makes Jaffa Cakes and Hula Hoops, and French yoghurt group Yoplait.The deal comes as a Chinese retailer sealed the acquisition of Savile Row tailor Gieves & Hawkes from another Chinese firm.", "tags": ["Food & drink industry", "Business", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "UK news", "Food & drink", "Breakfast", "Life and style"], "title": "China buys Weetabix majority stake"},{"date": "2012-05-01T13:02:15Z", "country": "china", "content": "Without a car, the only practical way to travel from Urumqi to Tianchi is by tourist bus, which passes the gritty plains of Xinjiang desert and rises into the sweet air of the Tian Shan mountain range, known in China as the Celestial mountains.It's not a direct journey. First stop was at a staged riverside Kazakh settlement. Here Han tourists were treated to bowls of kumys or fermented milk at low dastarkhan tables, and dancers in fluorescent, sequinned costumes and tubeteika hats, more reminiscent of 1001 Arabian Nights. Many men rose to dance, pawing the dancers as if drunk, clearly delighted to have met Kazakhs, one of nine ethnic groups living in this north-western region.At Tianchi the bus neatly fitted into rows of idling coaches. Here the Tian Shan majestically revealed green valleys and splendid peaks. To navigate the heights to Tianchi a stairway and gondola were offered.At the top we found a lake; hugging a cove were souffle-like yurts. A Kazakh greeted us with a gold-toothed smile and invited us to dine with her.That evening we did. According to custom, females were seated on the right, men on the left. The lady's son, Taras, poured chai and explained that of the 1.5 million Kazakhs in China, many lived a traditional lifestyle, moving pasture annually, raising stocks of goats, sheep and horses. What had he seen change?\"My children are studying at university in Urumqi. My mother didn't have that opportunity. After Tianchi opened to mass tourism, I established my business. In summer I live here, showing tourists our lifestyle, customs and pastures by horse.\"His mother presented plov, rice and cooked tomatoes or mutton. As we ate, Taras explained that his daughter had recently married. She'd chosen her husband who had been found suitable three months later at a family conference. The matter of a bride price, typically around $5,000, was then raised.One thousand Kazakhs had attended his daughter's wedding. A horse and four sheep had been slaughtered. Fish and kilos of plov and salad had crowned each table.Taras asked, \"How many animals were slaughtered for your wedding?\"Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. They should focus on giving our readers a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send submissions to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["China", "China holidays"], "title": "Letter from China: Kazakh life"},{"date": "2012-04-27T22:02:35Z", "country": "china", "content": "How can you grab a share of the money to be made in the world's fastest-growing economy? In recent years, Chinese stocks have disappointed, with mainland shares falling in value heavily since 2010. But there's lots of different ways to participate - from buying China-focused investment trusts through to shares in the multinational corporations that will benefit from the rise of Chinese middle class spenders. Or maybe oil and commodities are the way to play China, as the country snaps up the world's resources. Here's where to start:So-called \"A\" shares traded on the Shenzhen and Shanghai exchanges can only be bought by mainland Chinese citizens. Foreigners are allowed to buy \"H\" shares and \"red chips\", which are private, or partially state-owned, companies incorporated on the mainland but listed on the Hong Kong stock exchange. Big names include China Mobile, Bank of China and PetroChina. You can buy most international shares through any ordinary stockbroking account in exactly the same way as those traded in London. But beware the usual risks: individual shares are hugely volatile, and when you buy in an overseas currency, you can lose twice over \u2013 from share price and currency movements.There's not much to choose from. There are just a few exchange traded funds (ETFs), which trade like shares but mirror the price of an index (and are free from stamp duty), such as the iShares Xinhua China 25. You can buy ETFs through a broker in the same way that you buy shares. A general emerging-markets index tracker may be a better bet. Both Vanguard and Legal & General offer low-charge global emerging markets index funds (\u00a3500 minimum). Vanguard's fund is currently 17.5% invested in China.There are 31 funds in the China sector, according to Trustnet.com. Top performer over three years is GAM Star China Equity (up 81%) while the worst is HSBC China Equity (up 12%). Typical minimum investment is \u00a3500-\u00a31,000, or \u00a350 per month. Avoid high initial charges by buying through a discount broker, such as Hargreaves Lansdown.There are only two China-only investment trusts: Fidelity China Special Situations and JP Morgan Chinese. The Fidelity fund is much the biggest for UK investors. Fidelity is down 32% over the past year, while JP Morgan has fallen 21%. Investment trusts can be bought through stockbrokers or financial advisers. They generally have lower fees than unit trusts, but suffer from swings in their value (called the \"premium\" or \"discount\") when the trust is either worth more than its underlying shares, or less.Funds such as Morgan Stanley Global Brands, Rathbone Global Opportunities and Fundsmith Equity have enjoyed strong performance by investing in global household names, but few have been able to withstand the drop in confidence resulting from the Euro crisis. Fundsmith Equity's big holdings include L'Oreal, which has grabbed a 15% slice of the China cosmetics market.As its roads are flooded with cars, is the oil price the way to play the Chinese economy? ETF Securities offers the ETFS Brent Crude index, but there are also more adventurous options, such as leveraged and futures trading, though this is probably best left to experts. Commodities sought by China \u2013 such as copper and iron ore \u2013 are another play on the growing demand. But last week investment bank Citigroup warned that the \"super cycle\" of commodity price rises \u2013 a basket of 24 raw materials has increased four-fold since 2001 \u2013 may be coming to an end as growth moderates and new sources of supply come forward. There are investment trusts specialising in metals and commodities, such as BlackRock World Mining. After a huge 122% gain in 2009, it fell 22% in 2011. Or you can buy shares in oil companies such as BP or Shell, although interestingly these tend not to correlate very closely with the oil price.Patrick Collinson was a guest on a trip organised by Fidelity Investments. Fidelity's China Special Situations investment trust is a holder of shares in Ping An, Master Kong and Wu Mart.", "tags": ["Investments", "Investment funds", "Money", "China", "Investing", "Business", "World news"], "title": "How to invest in China"},{"date": "2012-06-22T07:30:01Z", "country": "china", "content": "Like all Chinese children, I was taught at school the Chinese Communist party's prediction about religion: as society progresses, religion will slowly fade from people's lives until it finally disappears. Mao bluntly said that religion was a poison and tried to wipe out religious practices.But the opposite has happened. In the past three decades, as our economy has flourished and personal freedoms have increased, religions of all forms have started to thrive.Yet instead of joining officially sanctioned churches, the Chinese have been flocking to unofficial houses of worship \u2013 the so-called house churches, with up to 100 million members. While technically illegal, the house churches have been largely tolerated in recent years thanks to relaxed control and the government's realisation that religion can be a moral force to be reckoned with.My former maid belongs to this fast-expanding community. After we got to know each other, she opened up and told me about her spiritual journey.As a child, she was baptised with her sickly mother at a church near her home village outside Luoyang, in central China's Henan province. It belonged to the government-sanctioned Three-Self Patriotic Movement of Protestant Church in China. After her mother's death, she forgot about God until she migrated to Beijing in 2003. She started out by selling clothes, working long hours for meagre pay. Feeling miserable, lonely and empty, she went to an official church a few times. But it made little impact on her life.\"You turn up when you like; if you don't, no one cares,\" she recalled.Then she accidentally overheard a pastor from a house church preaching: \"If you are a good Christian, you'll be transformed into an angel or you'll fly up to heaven after your body perishes.\"She became hooked. Soon she was baptised, again, and joined the house church called \"God's Church\", a protestant of some sort. Four times a week, rain or sunshine, she goes to a pastor's house in our neighbourhood called Wine God Bridge Village on the northeast corner of Beijing, for service and Bible study. There, she found a home she had longed for.The statistics are hard to come by but Protestantism is generally regarded as the fastest growing. Before China's reforms and opening up, there were only 2 million Christians but the figure has increased 40- to 50-fold in the past three decades. According to Frank Lee, a Chinese academic who has studied the development of house churches in China, there are currently 20 million registered with the Three-Self Church, whereas the house churches boast 10 million Catholics and up to 70 million Protestants. Others put the figures even higher. Farmers and migrant workers make up the bulk.In his book The Next Christendom, Philip Jenkins finds that countries in the southern hemisphere where Christianity has thrived most successfully are those experiencing the greatest economic and demographic difficulties. China seems to showcase such a pattern. The migrant workers have benefited least from the economic reforms; and being physically and emotionally displaced, and usually fending for themselves, their lives are most unsettled in the cities. They have greater need for a community to anchor their lives and to bring hope and peace.The house church fits the bill. Each congregation is an independent social organisation, providing a badly needed infrastructure and services for the members. In some poorer areas, the churches even offer basic medical care and education.In my former maid's God's Church, the members refer to each other as brothers and sisters and help each other with jobs and domestic issues, just like siblings. There are about two dozen in the congregation, all migrant workers. One 30-year-old would-be-artist from Guangdong, met her seven years ago when he was struggling to put his feet down in the capital. \"People start to look for God when they are not happy,\" he said.The members stay clear of the official church, or the \"big church\" as they call it, because they believe that the true religion should be free from politics.The Chinese Communist party has been struggling as it tries to balance making use of religion as a moral force with its habitual inclination to control it. Unfortunately, the party's fear of any independent organisation wins out often. Shouwang, a large house church in Beijing with 1,000 members, attempted to establish its own venue in 2010 but failed. More disturbing was the sentencing of a house church pastor in Shandong province to a labour camp last July for supposedly illegal gatherings.I am a firm atheist, but I appreciate how my grandmother, a Buddhist, had always drawn strength from her religion as she endured the loss of her parents, famine and war. And the benefits of spiritual belonging are crystal clear every time I see my former maid. \"I feel a lot happier now,\" she claims.Instead of curtailing the growth of house churches, the Chinese authorities should accept the religious movement as a positive force. There is an ongoing discussion here in China about the decline of morality as our country has become increasingly money-worshipping. So the tugs and pulls of modern life tend to leave any nation's people searching for a spiritual outlet.China's leaders constantly speak of building a \"harmonious society\" \u2013 what better way to do it then to involve churches?\u2022 Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree", "tags": ["Christianity", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Religion"], "title": "China should embrace house churches | Lijia Zhang"},{"date": "2012-05-03T13:28:27Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has gobbled up a majority stake in Weetabix. China's state-owned Bright Food announced on Thursday that it had bought a 60% stake in the 80-year-old breakfast cereal.The deal values Weetabix, which is produced in the small town of Burton Latimer, near Kettering, Northamptonshire, at \u00a31.2bn.Zongnan Wang, chairman of Bright Food, said he was \"excited\" about bringing Weetabix to breakfast tables across China and Asia, where western eating habits are slowly catching on as wealthier citizens begin to shun traditional rice and steamed bread.\"We are excited by the many growth opportunities for the business, especially in international markets, and Asia in particular. With Bright Food's strong resources and our expertise in both the Chinese and broader international markets, we are excellently placed to develop the Weetabix business,\" Wang said.Despite Weetabix being derided by a head chef at the Savoy as \"cakes that you give to dogs\", Weetabix's chief executive, Giles Turrell, said he believed there were \"substantial opportunities to further grow the business internationally, in North America, Asia and beyond\".Lyndon Lea, a partner at Lion Capital, said: \"We are excited to continue our journey with the Weetabix brand, which has been an enormously successful investment, as we extend the business into China in partnership with Bright Food.\"The nation's favourite breakfast cereal, which accounts for 7% of UK cereal sales, was family owned until 2004, when it was bought by a Texas private equity firm. It was later sold to another private equity firm, Lion Capital, which will retain a 40% stake in the company, which also owns Alpen and Ready brek.Weetabix is exported to more than 80 countries, employs nearly 2,000 people and generates annual sales of more than \u00a3420m. Britons are still its biggest fans eating an average of 336 Weetabix a year each.The cereal is the latest in a long line of western food groups that have fallen prey to the Chinese. Last year Bright Food bought a 75% stake in Australia's Manassen Food for more than $500m and its dairy business bought a 51% stake in New Zealand diary Synlait.Bright Food had also tried to buy stakes in United Biscuits, which makes Jaffa Cakes and Hula Hoops, and French yoghurt group Yoplait.The deal comes as a Chinese retailer sealed the acquisition of Savile Row tailor Gieves & Hawkes from another Chinese firm.", "tags": ["Food & drink industry", "Business", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "UK news", "Food & drink", "Breakfast", "Life and style"], "title": "China buys Weetabix majority stake"},{"date": "2012-05-01T13:02:15Z", "country": "china", "content": "Without a car, the only practical way to travel from Urumqi to Tianchi is by tourist bus, which passes the gritty plains of Xinjiang desert and rises into the sweet air of the Tian Shan mountain range, known in China as the Celestial mountains.It's not a direct journey. First stop was at a staged riverside Kazakh settlement. Here Han tourists were treated to bowls of kumys or fermented milk at low dastarkhan tables, and dancers in fluorescent, sequinned costumes and tubeteika hats, more reminiscent of 1001 Arabian Nights. Many men rose to dance, pawing the dancers as if drunk, clearly delighted to have met Kazakhs, one of nine ethnic groups living in this north-western region.At Tianchi the bus neatly fitted into rows of idling coaches. Here the Tian Shan majestically revealed green valleys and splendid peaks. To navigate the heights to Tianchi a stairway and gondola were offered.At the top we found a lake; hugging a cove were souffle-like yurts. A Kazakh greeted us with a gold-toothed smile and invited us to dine with her.That evening we did. According to custom, females were seated on the right, men on the left. The lady's son, Taras, poured chai and explained that of the 1.5 million Kazakhs in China, many lived a traditional lifestyle, moving pasture annually, raising stocks of goats, sheep and horses. What had he seen change?\"My children are studying at university in Urumqi. My mother didn't have that opportunity. After Tianchi opened to mass tourism, I established my business. In summer I live here, showing tourists our lifestyle, customs and pastures by horse.\"His mother presented plov, rice and cooked tomatoes or mutton. As we ate, Taras explained that his daughter had recently married. She'd chosen her husband who had been found suitable three months later at a family conference. The matter of a bride price, typically around $5,000, was then raised.One thousand Kazakhs had attended his daughter's wedding. A horse and four sheep had been slaughtered. Fish and kilos of plov and salad had crowned each table.Taras asked, \"How many animals were slaughtered for your wedding?\"Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. They should focus on giving our readers a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send submissions to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["China", "China holidays"], "title": "Letter from China: Kazakh life"},{"date": "2012-04-27T22:02:35Z", "country": "china", "content": "How can you grab a share of the money to be made in the world's fastest-growing economy? In recent years, Chinese stocks have disappointed, with mainland shares falling in value heavily since 2010. But there's lots of different ways to participate - from buying China-focused investment trusts through to shares in the multinational corporations that will benefit from the rise of Chinese middle class spenders. Or maybe oil and commodities are the way to play China, as the country snaps up the world's resources. Here's where to start:So-called \"A\" shares traded on the Shenzhen and Shanghai exchanges can only be bought by mainland Chinese citizens. Foreigners are allowed to buy \"H\" shares and \"red chips\", which are private, or partially state-owned, companies incorporated on the mainland but listed on the Hong Kong stock exchange. Big names include China Mobile, Bank of China and PetroChina. You can buy most international shares through any ordinary stockbroking account in exactly the same way as those traded in London. But beware the usual risks: individual shares are hugely volatile, and when you buy in an overseas currency, you can lose twice over \u2013 from share price and currency movements.There's not much to choose from. There are just a few exchange traded funds (ETFs), which trade like shares but mirror the price of an index (and are free from stamp duty), such as the iShares Xinhua China 25. You can buy ETFs through a broker in the same way that you buy shares. A general emerging-markets index tracker may be a better bet. Both Vanguard and Legal & General offer low-charge global emerging markets index funds (\u00a3500 minimum). Vanguard's fund is currently 17.5% invested in China.There are 31 funds in the China sector, according to Trustnet.com. Top performer over three years is GAM Star China Equity (up 81%) while the worst is HSBC China Equity (up 12%). Typical minimum investment is \u00a3500-\u00a31,000, or \u00a350 per month. Avoid high initial charges by buying through a discount broker, such as Hargreaves Lansdown.There are only two China-only investment trusts: Fidelity China Special Situations and JP Morgan Chinese. The Fidelity fund is much the biggest for UK investors. Fidelity is down 32% over the past year, while JP Morgan has fallen 21%. Investment trusts can be bought through stockbrokers or financial advisers. They generally have lower fees than unit trusts, but suffer from swings in their value (called the \"premium\" or \"discount\") when the trust is either worth more than its underlying shares, or less.Funds such as Morgan Stanley Global Brands, Rathbone Global Opportunities and Fundsmith Equity have enjoyed strong performance by investing in global household names, but few have been able to withstand the drop in confidence resulting from the Euro crisis. Fundsmith Equity's big holdings include L'Oreal, which has grabbed a 15% slice of the China cosmetics market.As its roads are flooded with cars, is the oil price the way to play the Chinese economy? ETF Securities offers the ETFS Brent Crude index, but there are also more adventurous options, such as leveraged and futures trading, though this is probably best left to experts. Commodities sought by China \u2013 such as copper and iron ore \u2013 are another play on the growing demand. But last week investment bank Citigroup warned that the \"super cycle\" of commodity price rises \u2013 a basket of 24 raw materials has increased four-fold since 2001 \u2013 may be coming to an end as growth moderates and new sources of supply come forward. There are investment trusts specialising in metals and commodities, such as BlackRock World Mining. After a huge 122% gain in 2009, it fell 22% in 2011. Or you can buy shares in oil companies such as BP or Shell, although interestingly these tend not to correlate very closely with the oil price.Patrick Collinson was a guest on a trip organised by Fidelity Investments. Fidelity's China Special Situations investment trust is a holder of shares in Ping An, Master Kong and Wu Mart.", "tags": ["Investments", "Investment funds", "Money", "China", "Investing", "Business", "World news"], "title": "How to invest in China"},{"date": "2012-04-12T00:12:47Z", "country": "china", "content": "In coming to an abrupt stop the driver is supposed to check the rear-view mirror before slamming on the brakes. The official party newspaper in China dispensed with that courtesy yesterday. When the People's Daily urged people to rally around the top leadership, saying that Bo Xilai had damaged the cause of both party and state, the sound of tinkling glass and smashed fenders resounded all over the blogosphere, which now had, according to China Digital Times, a whole new batch of censored words. The debate over Bo, who was dismissed as party secretary of the megacity of Chongqing some weeks ago, but who had held on to his politburo and central committee seats until this week, was now apparently over.But what was over? The investigation into the murder of a British businessman, Neil Heywood, in which Bo's wife Gu Kailai was strongly implicated? The rise of an opportunist princeling, who had turned a city with the population the size of Canada's into a massive personal springboard to national fame? Or the biggest upheaval since the general secretary Zhao Ziyang was ousted following the Tiananmen protests in 1989? It took more than a month from the incident which started all this, the dramatic flight of Bo's former ally and police chief Wang Lijun to the nearest US consulate, to the removal of Bo as Chongqing chief. Another few weeks elapsed until Bo was dismissed from the politburo. Obviously Wang's allegations against his former boss had to be investigated. But there must also have been one big bust-up, as rival party barons settled scores over the seat in the standing committee that Bo will now never occupy. China's seamless handover of power from one generation of leaders to the next, scheduled for this autumn, has been all too visibly stitched up.The fall of Bo tells us three things about the ability of the communist leadership to manage change. The first is that it was enormously public. Brutal factional politics can no longer be concealed behind a screen. It is duplicated in real time all over millions of them. The second is that, whether or not Bo's fall was accidental or triggered by forces outside Chongqing, the myth that the grey, collective, consensus-led leadership can carry on business as usual has been temporarily dented, if not permanently shattered. The next generation of leaders faces such massive challenges \u2013 a major environmental crisis, an acute shortage of water in the north, a falling birthrate, the end of double-digit growth, the need to rebalance the economy towards domestic consumption, corruption, riots \u2013 that it patently cannot carry on business as usual. Third, Bo's rise and fall came amid a steady crescendo of debate about the need for reform, political as well as economic. Maybe Bo was the wrong answer to the right question.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Bo Xilai"], "title": "China: fall of a princeling | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-06-22T07:30:01Z", "country": "china", "content": "Like all Chinese children, I was taught at school the Chinese Communist party's prediction about religion: as society progresses, religion will slowly fade from people's lives until it finally disappears. Mao bluntly said that religion was a poison and tried to wipe out religious practices.But the opposite has happened. In the past three decades, as our economy has flourished and personal freedoms have increased, religions of all forms have started to thrive.Yet instead of joining officially sanctioned churches, the Chinese have been flocking to unofficial houses of worship \u2013 the so-called house churches, with up to 100 million members. While technically illegal, the house churches have been largely tolerated in recent years thanks to relaxed control and the government's realisation that religion can be a moral force to be reckoned with.My former maid belongs to this fast-expanding community. After we got to know each other, she opened up and told me about her spiritual journey.As a child, she was baptised with her sickly mother at a church near her home village outside Luoyang, in central China's Henan province. It belonged to the government-sanctioned Three-Self Patriotic Movement of Protestant Church in China. After her mother's death, she forgot about God until she migrated to Beijing in 2003. She started out by selling clothes, working long hours for meagre pay. Feeling miserable, lonely and empty, she went to an official church a few times. But it made little impact on her life.\"You turn up when you like; if you don't, no one cares,\" she recalled.Then she accidentally overheard a pastor from a house church preaching: \"If you are a good Christian, you'll be transformed into an angel or you'll fly up to heaven after your body perishes.\"She became hooked. Soon she was baptised, again, and joined the house church called \"God's Church\", a protestant of some sort. Four times a week, rain or sunshine, she goes to a pastor's house in our neighbourhood called Wine God Bridge Village on the northeast corner of Beijing, for service and Bible study. There, she found a home she had longed for.The statistics are hard to come by but Protestantism is generally regarded as the fastest growing. Before China's reforms and opening up, there were only 2 million Christians but the figure has increased 40- to 50-fold in the past three decades. According to Frank Lee, a Chinese academic who has studied the development of house churches in China, there are currently 20 million registered with the Three-Self Church, whereas the house churches boast 10 million Catholics and up to 70 million Protestants. Others put the figures even higher. Farmers and migrant workers make up the bulk.In his book The Next Christendom, Philip Jenkins finds that countries in the southern hemisphere where Christianity has thrived most successfully are those experiencing the greatest economic and demographic difficulties. China seems to showcase such a pattern. The migrant workers have benefited least from the economic reforms; and being physically and emotionally displaced, and usually fending for themselves, their lives are most unsettled in the cities. They have greater need for a community to anchor their lives and to bring hope and peace.The house church fits the bill. Each congregation is an independent social organisation, providing a badly needed infrastructure and services for the members. In some poorer areas, the churches even offer basic medical care and education.In my former maid's God's Church, the members refer to each other as brothers and sisters and help each other with jobs and domestic issues, just like siblings. There are about two dozen in the congregation, all migrant workers. One 30-year-old would-be-artist from Guangdong, met her seven years ago when he was struggling to put his feet down in the capital. \"People start to look for God when they are not happy,\" he said.The members stay clear of the official church, or the \"big church\" as they call it, because they believe that the true religion should be free from politics.The Chinese Communist party has been struggling as it tries to balance making use of religion as a moral force with its habitual inclination to control it. Unfortunately, the party's fear of any independent organisation wins out often. Shouwang, a large house church in Beijing with 1,000 members, attempted to establish its own venue in 2010 but failed. More disturbing was the sentencing of a house church pastor in Shandong province to a labour camp last July for supposedly illegal gatherings.I am a firm atheist, but I appreciate how my grandmother, a Buddhist, had always drawn strength from her religion as she endured the loss of her parents, famine and war. And the benefits of spiritual belonging are crystal clear every time I see my former maid. \"I feel a lot happier now,\" she claims.Instead of curtailing the growth of house churches, the Chinese authorities should accept the religious movement as a positive force. There is an ongoing discussion here in China about the decline of morality as our country has become increasingly money-worshipping. So the tugs and pulls of modern life tend to leave any nation's people searching for a spiritual outlet.China's leaders constantly speak of building a \"harmonious society\" \u2013 what better way to do it then to involve churches?\u2022 Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree", "tags": ["Christianity", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Religion"], "title": "China should embrace house churches | Lijia Zhang"},{"date": "2012-05-03T13:28:27Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has gobbled up a majority stake in Weetabix. China's state-owned Bright Food announced on Thursday that it had bought a 60% stake in the 80-year-old breakfast cereal.The deal values Weetabix, which is produced in the small town of Burton Latimer, near Kettering, Northamptonshire, at \u00a31.2bn.Zongnan Wang, chairman of Bright Food, said he was \"excited\" about bringing Weetabix to breakfast tables across China and Asia, where western eating habits are slowly catching on as wealthier citizens begin to shun traditional rice and steamed bread.\"We are excited by the many growth opportunities for the business, especially in international markets, and Asia in particular. With Bright Food's strong resources and our expertise in both the Chinese and broader international markets, we are excellently placed to develop the Weetabix business,\" Wang said.Despite Weetabix being derided by a head chef at the Savoy as \"cakes that you give to dogs\", Weetabix's chief executive, Giles Turrell, said he believed there were \"substantial opportunities to further grow the business internationally, in North America, Asia and beyond\".Lyndon Lea, a partner at Lion Capital, said: \"We are excited to continue our journey with the Weetabix brand, which has been an enormously successful investment, as we extend the business into China in partnership with Bright Food.\"The nation's favourite breakfast cereal, which accounts for 7% of UK cereal sales, was family owned until 2004, when it was bought by a Texas private equity firm. It was later sold to another private equity firm, Lion Capital, which will retain a 40% stake in the company, which also owns Alpen and Ready brek.Weetabix is exported to more than 80 countries, employs nearly 2,000 people and generates annual sales of more than \u00a3420m. Britons are still its biggest fans eating an average of 336 Weetabix a year each.The cereal is the latest in a long line of western food groups that have fallen prey to the Chinese. Last year Bright Food bought a 75% stake in Australia's Manassen Food for more than $500m and its dairy business bought a 51% stake in New Zealand diary Synlait.Bright Food had also tried to buy stakes in United Biscuits, which makes Jaffa Cakes and Hula Hoops, and French yoghurt group Yoplait.The deal comes as a Chinese retailer sealed the acquisition of Savile Row tailor Gieves & Hawkes from another Chinese firm.", "tags": ["Food & drink industry", "Business", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "UK news", "Food & drink", "Breakfast", "Life and style"], "title": "China buys Weetabix majority stake"},{"date": "2012-05-01T13:02:15Z", "country": "china", "content": "Without a car, the only practical way to travel from Urumqi to Tianchi is by tourist bus, which passes the gritty plains of Xinjiang desert and rises into the sweet air of the Tian Shan mountain range, known in China as the Celestial mountains.It's not a direct journey. First stop was at a staged riverside Kazakh settlement. Here Han tourists were treated to bowls of kumys or fermented milk at low dastarkhan tables, and dancers in fluorescent, sequinned costumes and tubeteika hats, more reminiscent of 1001 Arabian Nights. Many men rose to dance, pawing the dancers as if drunk, clearly delighted to have met Kazakhs, one of nine ethnic groups living in this north-western region.At Tianchi the bus neatly fitted into rows of idling coaches. Here the Tian Shan majestically revealed green valleys and splendid peaks. To navigate the heights to Tianchi a stairway and gondola were offered.At the top we found a lake; hugging a cove were souffle-like yurts. A Kazakh greeted us with a gold-toothed smile and invited us to dine with her.That evening we did. According to custom, females were seated on the right, men on the left. The lady's son, Taras, poured chai and explained that of the 1.5 million Kazakhs in China, many lived a traditional lifestyle, moving pasture annually, raising stocks of goats, sheep and horses. What had he seen change?\"My children are studying at university in Urumqi. My mother didn't have that opportunity. After Tianchi opened to mass tourism, I established my business. In summer I live here, showing tourists our lifestyle, customs and pastures by horse.\"His mother presented plov, rice and cooked tomatoes or mutton. As we ate, Taras explained that his daughter had recently married. She'd chosen her husband who had been found suitable three months later at a family conference. The matter of a bride price, typically around $5,000, was then raised.One thousand Kazakhs had attended his daughter's wedding. A horse and four sheep had been slaughtered. Fish and kilos of plov and salad had crowned each table.Taras asked, \"How many animals were slaughtered for your wedding?\"Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. They should focus on giving our readers a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send submissions to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["China", "China holidays"], "title": "Letter from China: Kazakh life"},{"date": "2012-04-27T22:02:35Z", "country": "china", "content": "How can you grab a share of the money to be made in the world's fastest-growing economy? In recent years, Chinese stocks have disappointed, with mainland shares falling in value heavily since 2010. But there's lots of different ways to participate - from buying China-focused investment trusts through to shares in the multinational corporations that will benefit from the rise of Chinese middle class spenders. Or maybe oil and commodities are the way to play China, as the country snaps up the world's resources. Here's where to start:So-called \"A\" shares traded on the Shenzhen and Shanghai exchanges can only be bought by mainland Chinese citizens. Foreigners are allowed to buy \"H\" shares and \"red chips\", which are private, or partially state-owned, companies incorporated on the mainland but listed on the Hong Kong stock exchange. Big names include China Mobile, Bank of China and PetroChina. You can buy most international shares through any ordinary stockbroking account in exactly the same way as those traded in London. But beware the usual risks: individual shares are hugely volatile, and when you buy in an overseas currency, you can lose twice over \u2013 from share price and currency movements.There's not much to choose from. There are just a few exchange traded funds (ETFs), which trade like shares but mirror the price of an index (and are free from stamp duty), such as the iShares Xinhua China 25. You can buy ETFs through a broker in the same way that you buy shares. A general emerging-markets index tracker may be a better bet. Both Vanguard and Legal & General offer low-charge global emerging markets index funds (\u00a3500 minimum). Vanguard's fund is currently 17.5% invested in China.There are 31 funds in the China sector, according to Trustnet.com. Top performer over three years is GAM Star China Equity (up 81%) while the worst is HSBC China Equity (up 12%). Typical minimum investment is \u00a3500-\u00a31,000, or \u00a350 per month. Avoid high initial charges by buying through a discount broker, such as Hargreaves Lansdown.There are only two China-only investment trusts: Fidelity China Special Situations and JP Morgan Chinese. The Fidelity fund is much the biggest for UK investors. Fidelity is down 32% over the past year, while JP Morgan has fallen 21%. Investment trusts can be bought through stockbrokers or financial advisers. They generally have lower fees than unit trusts, but suffer from swings in their value (called the \"premium\" or \"discount\") when the trust is either worth more than its underlying shares, or less.Funds such as Morgan Stanley Global Brands, Rathbone Global Opportunities and Fundsmith Equity have enjoyed strong performance by investing in global household names, but few have been able to withstand the drop in confidence resulting from the Euro crisis. Fundsmith Equity's big holdings include L'Oreal, which has grabbed a 15% slice of the China cosmetics market.As its roads are flooded with cars, is the oil price the way to play the Chinese economy? ETF Securities offers the ETFS Brent Crude index, but there are also more adventurous options, such as leveraged and futures trading, though this is probably best left to experts. Commodities sought by China \u2013 such as copper and iron ore \u2013 are another play on the growing demand. But last week investment bank Citigroup warned that the \"super cycle\" of commodity price rises \u2013 a basket of 24 raw materials has increased four-fold since 2001 \u2013 may be coming to an end as growth moderates and new sources of supply come forward. There are investment trusts specialising in metals and commodities, such as BlackRock World Mining. After a huge 122% gain in 2009, it fell 22% in 2011. Or you can buy shares in oil companies such as BP or Shell, although interestingly these tend not to correlate very closely with the oil price.Patrick Collinson was a guest on a trip organised by Fidelity Investments. Fidelity's China Special Situations investment trust is a holder of shares in Ping An, Master Kong and Wu Mart.", "tags": ["Investments", "Investment funds", "Money", "China", "Investing", "Business", "World news"], "title": "How to invest in China"},{"date": "2012-04-12T00:12:47Z", "country": "china", "content": "In coming to an abrupt stop the driver is supposed to check the rear-view mirror before slamming on the brakes. The official party newspaper in China dispensed with that courtesy yesterday. When the People's Daily urged people to rally around the top leadership, saying that Bo Xilai had damaged the cause of both party and state, the sound of tinkling glass and smashed fenders resounded all over the blogosphere, which now had, according to China Digital Times, a whole new batch of censored words. The debate over Bo, who was dismissed as party secretary of the megacity of Chongqing some weeks ago, but who had held on to his politburo and central committee seats until this week, was now apparently over.But what was over? The investigation into the murder of a British businessman, Neil Heywood, in which Bo's wife Gu Kailai was strongly implicated? The rise of an opportunist princeling, who had turned a city with the population the size of Canada's into a massive personal springboard to national fame? Or the biggest upheaval since the general secretary Zhao Ziyang was ousted following the Tiananmen protests in 1989? It took more than a month from the incident which started all this, the dramatic flight of Bo's former ally and police chief Wang Lijun to the nearest US consulate, to the removal of Bo as Chongqing chief. Another few weeks elapsed until Bo was dismissed from the politburo. Obviously Wang's allegations against his former boss had to be investigated. But there must also have been one big bust-up, as rival party barons settled scores over the seat in the standing committee that Bo will now never occupy. China's seamless handover of power from one generation of leaders to the next, scheduled for this autumn, has been all too visibly stitched up.The fall of Bo tells us three things about the ability of the communist leadership to manage change. The first is that it was enormously public. Brutal factional politics can no longer be concealed behind a screen. It is duplicated in real time all over millions of them. The second is that, whether or not Bo's fall was accidental or triggered by forces outside Chongqing, the myth that the grey, collective, consensus-led leadership can carry on business as usual has been temporarily dented, if not permanently shattered. The next generation of leaders faces such massive challenges \u2013 a major environmental crisis, an acute shortage of water in the north, a falling birthrate, the end of double-digit growth, the need to rebalance the economy towards domestic consumption, corruption, riots \u2013 that it patently cannot carry on business as usual. Third, Bo's rise and fall came amid a steady crescendo of debate about the need for reform, political as well as economic. Maybe Bo was the wrong answer to the right question.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Bo Xilai"], "title": "China: fall of a princeling | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-06-27T07:10:30Z", "country": "china", "content": "Two officials in China have been fired and five more given formal warnings after a young woman was forced to have an abortion at seven months, state media has reported.The news emerged hours after Feng Jianmei's sister-in-law and a lawyer advising the family described how relatives had been followed, harassed and attacked as \"traitors\" for speaking to foreign media. The whereabouts of Feng's husband is unknown.The case ignited anger across China after a picture of 22-year-old Feng lying beside the bloodied body of a seven-month old foetus circulated widely on the internet.Authorities in Ankang city in Shaanxi province said on Tuesday night that they had removed the director of the Zhenping county family planning bureau and the chief of Zengjia township government. The director of Zengjia family planning office and others were given warnings under the internal Communist party disciplinary system.The Xinhua news agency reported that authorities said the abortion had severely violated planning policies and that there were no legal grounds for the demands for a fine on the couple for breaking family planning laws.\"The incident showed that some officials at the grassroots level have a weak sense of the law and show little concern for the well-being of the people,\" it added.\"The incident has cast a very bad influence on society and other officials should draw a lesson from this.\"But Zhang Kai, a lawyer who has been advising the family, said: \"Only one or two officials will be removed from their position. Others have been a given serious warning and had a demerit put on their record, [but] it only means they will not get a salary rise or promotion in the next 18 months. No one is taking criminal responsibility. It does not make sense in terms of law.\"The family is not happy with the result. We will discuss what to do later.\"He added that authorities should also be paying Feng compensation; not, as they have announced, giving her a \"living allowance\", which is normally given to support people on low incomes.Feng's sister-in-law, Deng Jicai, said she was unhappy with the outcome but no longer wished to speak to foreign media.Feng's hospital was targeted by protesters this weekend. One held a banner reading: \"Beat the traitors and expel them\".\u00a0Officials in Zhenping county had claimed that Feng agreed to have an abortion \"after\u00a0repeated persuasion\". But her husband, Deng Jiyuan, said she had been hooded, abducted and forcibly injected to induce the abortion after the couple failed to pay a 40,000 yuan fine for breaking family planning laws. He said they could not afford to do so. His sister said on Tuesday he had called her to say he was safe but that she did not know where he was.The case has sparked wider discussion in China about the cost of the country's \"one-child\" rule, although strict family planning rules have exemptions for many families, particularly in rural areas. Experts have long been pressing for a shift, possibly to a universal two-child rule, pointing out that China's population is ageing at an alarming rate.Forced abortions are illegal in China and family planning enforcement has shifted towards less coercive methods in recent years. But abuses have continued, with experts blaming the population targets that officials must meet.", "tags": ["China", "World news"], "title": "China sacks officials in forced abortion case"},{"date": "2012-06-22T07:30:01Z", "country": "china", "content": "Like all Chinese children, I was taught at school the Chinese Communist party's prediction about religion: as society progresses, religion will slowly fade from people's lives until it finally disappears. Mao bluntly said that religion was a poison and tried to wipe out religious practices.But the opposite has happened. In the past three decades, as our economy has flourished and personal freedoms have increased, religions of all forms have started to thrive.Yet instead of joining officially sanctioned churches, the Chinese have been flocking to unofficial houses of worship \u2013 the so-called house churches, with up to 100 million members. While technically illegal, the house churches have been largely tolerated in recent years thanks to relaxed control and the government's realisation that religion can be a moral force to be reckoned with.My former maid belongs to this fast-expanding community. After we got to know each other, she opened up and told me about her spiritual journey.As a child, she was baptised with her sickly mother at a church near her home village outside Luoyang, in central China's Henan province. It belonged to the government-sanctioned Three-Self Patriotic Movement of Protestant Church in China. After her mother's death, she forgot about God until she migrated to Beijing in 2003. She started out by selling clothes, working long hours for meagre pay. Feeling miserable, lonely and empty, she went to an official church a few times. But it made little impact on her life.\"You turn up when you like; if you don't, no one cares,\" she recalled.Then she accidentally overheard a pastor from a house church preaching: \"If you are a good Christian, you'll be transformed into an angel or you'll fly up to heaven after your body perishes.\"She became hooked. Soon she was baptised, again, and joined the house church called \"God's Church\", a protestant of some sort. Four times a week, rain or sunshine, she goes to a pastor's house in our neighbourhood called Wine God Bridge Village on the northeast corner of Beijing, for service and Bible study. There, she found a home she had longed for.The statistics are hard to come by but Protestantism is generally regarded as the fastest growing. Before China's reforms and opening up, there were only 2 million Christians but the figure has increased 40- to 50-fold in the past three decades. According to Frank Lee, a Chinese academic who has studied the development of house churches in China, there are currently 20 million registered with the Three-Self Church, whereas the house churches boast 10 million Catholics and up to 70 million Protestants. Others put the figures even higher. Farmers and migrant workers make up the bulk.In his book The Next Christendom, Philip Jenkins finds that countries in the southern hemisphere where Christianity has thrived most successfully are those experiencing the greatest economic and demographic difficulties. China seems to showcase such a pattern. The migrant workers have benefited least from the economic reforms; and being physically and emotionally displaced, and usually fending for themselves, their lives are most unsettled in the cities. They have greater need for a community to anchor their lives and to bring hope and peace.The house church fits the bill. Each congregation is an independent social organisation, providing a badly needed infrastructure and services for the members. In some poorer areas, the churches even offer basic medical care and education.In my former maid's God's Church, the members refer to each other as brothers and sisters and help each other with jobs and domestic issues, just like siblings. There are about two dozen in the congregation, all migrant workers. One 30-year-old would-be-artist from Guangdong, met her seven years ago when he was struggling to put his feet down in the capital. \"People start to look for God when they are not happy,\" he said.The members stay clear of the official church, or the \"big church\" as they call it, because they believe that the true religion should be free from politics.The Chinese Communist party has been struggling as it tries to balance making use of religion as a moral force with its habitual inclination to control it. Unfortunately, the party's fear of any independent organisation wins out often. Shouwang, a large house church in Beijing with 1,000 members, attempted to establish its own venue in 2010 but failed. More disturbing was the sentencing of a house church pastor in Shandong province to a labour camp last July for supposedly illegal gatherings.I am a firm atheist, but I appreciate how my grandmother, a Buddhist, had always drawn strength from her religion as she endured the loss of her parents, famine and war. And the benefits of spiritual belonging are crystal clear every time I see my former maid. \"I feel a lot happier now,\" she claims.Instead of curtailing the growth of house churches, the Chinese authorities should accept the religious movement as a positive force. There is an ongoing discussion here in China about the decline of morality as our country has become increasingly money-worshipping. So the tugs and pulls of modern life tend to leave any nation's people searching for a spiritual outlet.China's leaders constantly speak of building a \"harmonious society\" \u2013 what better way to do it then to involve churches?\u2022 Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree", "tags": ["Christianity", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Religion"], "title": "China should embrace house churches | Lijia Zhang"},{"date": "2012-05-03T13:28:27Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has gobbled up a majority stake in Weetabix. China's state-owned Bright Food announced on Thursday that it had bought a 60% stake in the 80-year-old breakfast cereal.The deal values Weetabix, which is produced in the small town of Burton Latimer, near Kettering, Northamptonshire, at \u00a31.2bn.Zongnan Wang, chairman of Bright Food, said he was \"excited\" about bringing Weetabix to breakfast tables across China and Asia, where western eating habits are slowly catching on as wealthier citizens begin to shun traditional rice and steamed bread.\"We are excited by the many growth opportunities for the business, especially in international markets, and Asia in particular. With Bright Food's strong resources and our expertise in both the Chinese and broader international markets, we are excellently placed to develop the Weetabix business,\" Wang said.Despite Weetabix being derided by a head chef at the Savoy as \"cakes that you give to dogs\", Weetabix's chief executive, Giles Turrell, said he believed there were \"substantial opportunities to further grow the business internationally, in North America, Asia and beyond\".Lyndon Lea, a partner at Lion Capital, said: \"We are excited to continue our journey with the Weetabix brand, which has been an enormously successful investment, as we extend the business into China in partnership with Bright Food.\"The nation's favourite breakfast cereal, which accounts for 7% of UK cereal sales, was family owned until 2004, when it was bought by a Texas private equity firm. It was later sold to another private equity firm, Lion Capital, which will retain a 40% stake in the company, which also owns Alpen and Ready brek.Weetabix is exported to more than 80 countries, employs nearly 2,000 people and generates annual sales of more than \u00a3420m. Britons are still its biggest fans eating an average of 336 Weetabix a year each.The cereal is the latest in a long line of western food groups that have fallen prey to the Chinese. Last year Bright Food bought a 75% stake in Australia's Manassen Food for more than $500m and its dairy business bought a 51% stake in New Zealand diary Synlait.Bright Food had also tried to buy stakes in United Biscuits, which makes Jaffa Cakes and Hula Hoops, and French yoghurt group Yoplait.The deal comes as a Chinese retailer sealed the acquisition of Savile Row tailor Gieves & Hawkes from another Chinese firm.", "tags": ["Food & drink industry", "Business", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "UK news", "Food & drink", "Breakfast", "Life and style"], "title": "China buys Weetabix majority stake"},{"date": "2012-05-01T13:02:15Z", "country": "china", "content": "Without a car, the only practical way to travel from Urumqi to Tianchi is by tourist bus, which passes the gritty plains of Xinjiang desert and rises into the sweet air of the Tian Shan mountain range, known in China as the Celestial mountains.It's not a direct journey. First stop was at a staged riverside Kazakh settlement. Here Han tourists were treated to bowls of kumys or fermented milk at low dastarkhan tables, and dancers in fluorescent, sequinned costumes and tubeteika hats, more reminiscent of 1001 Arabian Nights. Many men rose to dance, pawing the dancers as if drunk, clearly delighted to have met Kazakhs, one of nine ethnic groups living in this north-western region.At Tianchi the bus neatly fitted into rows of idling coaches. Here the Tian Shan majestically revealed green valleys and splendid peaks. To navigate the heights to Tianchi a stairway and gondola were offered.At the top we found a lake; hugging a cove were souffle-like yurts. A Kazakh greeted us with a gold-toothed smile and invited us to dine with her.That evening we did. According to custom, females were seated on the right, men on the left. The lady's son, Taras, poured chai and explained that of the 1.5 million Kazakhs in China, many lived a traditional lifestyle, moving pasture annually, raising stocks of goats, sheep and horses. What had he seen change?\"My children are studying at university in Urumqi. My mother didn't have that opportunity. After Tianchi opened to mass tourism, I established my business. In summer I live here, showing tourists our lifestyle, customs and pastures by horse.\"His mother presented plov, rice and cooked tomatoes or mutton. As we ate, Taras explained that his daughter had recently married. She'd chosen her husband who had been found suitable three months later at a family conference. The matter of a bride price, typically around $5,000, was then raised.One thousand Kazakhs had attended his daughter's wedding. A horse and four sheep had been slaughtered. Fish and kilos of plov and salad had crowned each table.Taras asked, \"How many animals were slaughtered for your wedding?\"Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. They should focus on giving our readers a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send submissions to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["China", "China holidays"], "title": "Letter from China: Kazakh life"},{"date": "2012-04-27T22:02:35Z", "country": "china", "content": "How can you grab a share of the money to be made in the world's fastest-growing economy? In recent years, Chinese stocks have disappointed, with mainland shares falling in value heavily since 2010. But there's lots of different ways to participate - from buying China-focused investment trusts through to shares in the multinational corporations that will benefit from the rise of Chinese middle class spenders. Or maybe oil and commodities are the way to play China, as the country snaps up the world's resources. Here's where to start:So-called \"A\" shares traded on the Shenzhen and Shanghai exchanges can only be bought by mainland Chinese citizens. Foreigners are allowed to buy \"H\" shares and \"red chips\", which are private, or partially state-owned, companies incorporated on the mainland but listed on the Hong Kong stock exchange. Big names include China Mobile, Bank of China and PetroChina. You can buy most international shares through any ordinary stockbroking account in exactly the same way as those traded in London. But beware the usual risks: individual shares are hugely volatile, and when you buy in an overseas currency, you can lose twice over \u2013 from share price and currency movements.There's not much to choose from. There are just a few exchange traded funds (ETFs), which trade like shares but mirror the price of an index (and are free from stamp duty), such as the iShares Xinhua China 25. You can buy ETFs through a broker in the same way that you buy shares. A general emerging-markets index tracker may be a better bet. Both Vanguard and Legal & General offer low-charge global emerging markets index funds (\u00a3500 minimum). Vanguard's fund is currently 17.5% invested in China.There are 31 funds in the China sector, according to Trustnet.com. Top performer over three years is GAM Star China Equity (up 81%) while the worst is HSBC China Equity (up 12%). Typical minimum investment is \u00a3500-\u00a31,000, or \u00a350 per month. Avoid high initial charges by buying through a discount broker, such as Hargreaves Lansdown.There are only two China-only investment trusts: Fidelity China Special Situations and JP Morgan Chinese. The Fidelity fund is much the biggest for UK investors. Fidelity is down 32% over the past year, while JP Morgan has fallen 21%. Investment trusts can be bought through stockbrokers or financial advisers. They generally have lower fees than unit trusts, but suffer from swings in their value (called the \"premium\" or \"discount\") when the trust is either worth more than its underlying shares, or less.Funds such as Morgan Stanley Global Brands, Rathbone Global Opportunities and Fundsmith Equity have enjoyed strong performance by investing in global household names, but few have been able to withstand the drop in confidence resulting from the Euro crisis. Fundsmith Equity's big holdings include L'Oreal, which has grabbed a 15% slice of the China cosmetics market.As its roads are flooded with cars, is the oil price the way to play the Chinese economy? ETF Securities offers the ETFS Brent Crude index, but there are also more adventurous options, such as leveraged and futures trading, though this is probably best left to experts. Commodities sought by China \u2013 such as copper and iron ore \u2013 are another play on the growing demand. But last week investment bank Citigroup warned that the \"super cycle\" of commodity price rises \u2013 a basket of 24 raw materials has increased four-fold since 2001 \u2013 may be coming to an end as growth moderates and new sources of supply come forward. There are investment trusts specialising in metals and commodities, such as BlackRock World Mining. After a huge 122% gain in 2009, it fell 22% in 2011. Or you can buy shares in oil companies such as BP or Shell, although interestingly these tend not to correlate very closely with the oil price.Patrick Collinson was a guest on a trip organised by Fidelity Investments. Fidelity's China Special Situations investment trust is a holder of shares in Ping An, Master Kong and Wu Mart.", "tags": ["Investments", "Investment funds", "Money", "China", "Investing", "Business", "World news"], "title": "How to invest in China"},{"date": "2012-04-12T00:12:47Z", "country": "china", "content": "In coming to an abrupt stop the driver is supposed to check the rear-view mirror before slamming on the brakes. The official party newspaper in China dispensed with that courtesy yesterday. When the People's Daily urged people to rally around the top leadership, saying that Bo Xilai had damaged the cause of both party and state, the sound of tinkling glass and smashed fenders resounded all over the blogosphere, which now had, according to China Digital Times, a whole new batch of censored words. The debate over Bo, who was dismissed as party secretary of the megacity of Chongqing some weeks ago, but who had held on to his politburo and central committee seats until this week, was now apparently over.But what was over? The investigation into the murder of a British businessman, Neil Heywood, in which Bo's wife Gu Kailai was strongly implicated? The rise of an opportunist princeling, who had turned a city with the population the size of Canada's into a massive personal springboard to national fame? Or the biggest upheaval since the general secretary Zhao Ziyang was ousted following the Tiananmen protests in 1989? It took more than a month from the incident which started all this, the dramatic flight of Bo's former ally and police chief Wang Lijun to the nearest US consulate, to the removal of Bo as Chongqing chief. Another few weeks elapsed until Bo was dismissed from the politburo. Obviously Wang's allegations against his former boss had to be investigated. But there must also have been one big bust-up, as rival party barons settled scores over the seat in the standing committee that Bo will now never occupy. China's seamless handover of power from one generation of leaders to the next, scheduled for this autumn, has been all too visibly stitched up.The fall of Bo tells us three things about the ability of the communist leadership to manage change. The first is that it was enormously public. Brutal factional politics can no longer be concealed behind a screen. It is duplicated in real time all over millions of them. The second is that, whether or not Bo's fall was accidental or triggered by forces outside Chongqing, the myth that the grey, collective, consensus-led leadership can carry on business as usual has been temporarily dented, if not permanently shattered. The next generation of leaders faces such massive challenges \u2013 a major environmental crisis, an acute shortage of water in the north, a falling birthrate, the end of double-digit growth, the need to rebalance the economy towards domestic consumption, corruption, riots \u2013 that it patently cannot carry on business as usual. Third, Bo's rise and fall came amid a steady crescendo of debate about the need for reform, political as well as economic. Maybe Bo was the wrong answer to the right question.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Bo Xilai"], "title": "China: fall of a princeling | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-06-27T07:10:30Z", "country": "china", "content": "Two officials in China have been fired and five more given formal warnings after a young woman was forced to have an abortion at seven months, state media has reported.The news emerged hours after Feng Jianmei's sister-in-law and a lawyer advising the family described how relatives had been followed, harassed and attacked as \"traitors\" for speaking to foreign media. The whereabouts of Feng's husband is unknown.The case ignited anger across China after a picture of 22-year-old Feng lying beside the bloodied body of a seven-month old foetus circulated widely on the internet.Authorities in Ankang city in Shaanxi province said on Tuesday night that they had removed the director of the Zhenping county family planning bureau and the chief of Zengjia township government. The director of Zengjia family planning office and others were given warnings under the internal Communist party disciplinary system.The Xinhua news agency reported that authorities said the abortion had severely violated planning policies and that there were no legal grounds for the demands for a fine on the couple for breaking family planning laws.\"The incident showed that some officials at the grassroots level have a weak sense of the law and show little concern for the well-being of the people,\" it added.\"The incident has cast a very bad influence on society and other officials should draw a lesson from this.\"But Zhang Kai, a lawyer who has been advising the family, said: \"Only one or two officials will be removed from their position. Others have been a given serious warning and had a demerit put on their record, [but] it only means they will not get a salary rise or promotion in the next 18 months. No one is taking criminal responsibility. It does not make sense in terms of law.\"The family is not happy with the result. We will discuss what to do later.\"He added that authorities should also be paying Feng compensation; not, as they have announced, giving her a \"living allowance\", which is normally given to support people on low incomes.Feng's sister-in-law, Deng Jicai, said she was unhappy with the outcome but no longer wished to speak to foreign media.Feng's hospital was targeted by protesters this weekend. One held a banner reading: \"Beat the traitors and expel them\".\u00a0Officials in Zhenping county had claimed that Feng agreed to have an abortion \"after\u00a0repeated persuasion\". But her husband, Deng Jiyuan, said she had been hooded, abducted and forcibly injected to induce the abortion after the couple failed to pay a 40,000 yuan fine for breaking family planning laws. He said they could not afford to do so. His sister said on Tuesday he had called her to say he was safe but that she did not know where he was.The case has sparked wider discussion in China about the cost of the country's \"one-child\" rule, although strict family planning rules have exemptions for many families, particularly in rural areas. Experts have long been pressing for a shift, possibly to a universal two-child rule, pointing out that China's population is ageing at an alarming rate.Forced abortions are illegal in China and family planning enforcement has shifted towards less coercive methods in recent years. But abuses have continued, with experts blaming the population targets that officials must meet.", "tags": ["China", "World news"], "title": "China sacks officials in forced abortion case"},{"date": "2012-06-18T19:30:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "When I moved to Beijing in August 2003, I believed I had the best job in the world: working for my favourite newspaper in the biggest nation at arguably the most dramatic phase of transformation in its history. In the past decade, it has given me a front-row seat to watch 200-odd years of industrial development playing at fast forward on a continent-wide screen with a cast of more than a billion.That said, I am glad my daughters were young and easy to please back then or we might well have taken the first plane out of the country. As we drove from the airport to our apartment, I tried to maintain an upbeat chatter. \"Look at all the kites,\" I said as we passed Chaoyang park, even though my heart sank at the tatty buildings, endless construction sites and stultifying haze. In my head, I asked myself: \"Have I done the right thing for them?\"We had come from Japan \u2013 a democratic, comfortable, polite, hygiene-obsessed, orderly, first-world nation \u2013 to the grim-looking capital of a developing, nominally communist country that looked and sounded like a giant building site. For all my enthusiasm, my family must have felt we were taking a step backwards in lifestyle.It required an adjustment of preconceptions. Like many newcomers, I delighted at discoveries of Chinese literature and Daoist philosophy, Beijing parks, the edgy eccentricity of Dashanzi and the glorious mix of classicism and obscenity in the Chinese language, though I never managed to master it. The mix of communist politics and capitalist economics appeared to have created a system designed to exploit people and the environment like never before. It was so unequal that Japan appeared far more socialist by comparison. And it was changing fast. As swaths of the capital were being demolished and rebuilt for the Olympics, there was an exhilarating (and sometimes disorientating) sense of mutability. Everything seemed possible.Looking back over the stories that followed, it is hard to believe so much could be compressed into such a short span of time \u2013 the outbreaks of Sars and bird flu, the attempted assassination of the president of Taiwan, deadly unrest in Tibet, the devastating earthquake in Sichuan, murderous ethnic violence in Xinjiang, Tibetan self-immolations, as well as the huge regional stories: two tsunamis \u2013 in 2004 in the Indian Ocean and last year in the Pacific, a multiple nuclear meltdown in Fukushima, and the protracted rattling of nuclear sabres on the Korean peninsula.One of my first tasks in 2003 was to chose a Chinese name. I opted for \"Hua Zhong\", partly because it sounds a little like \"Watts, Jon\", but mainly because the characters mean \"Sincere to China\" \u2013 something I was determined to be as a reporter. Nine years later, that sentiment has not faded. But at various times, I have been called a communist sympathiser, supporter of Taiwan, a stooge of the Dalai Lama.However, my focus has been on development and its impact on individuals and the environment. In 2003, China had the world's sixth-biggest GDP. It passed France in 2004, Britain in 2006, Germany in 2009, and Japan in 2011. On current course, it will replace the US as No 1 within the next 15 years. It is already top in terms of internet population, energy consumption and the size of its car market.The primary driver for change has been the movement of people. Over the past nine years 120 million Chinese people \u2013 almost twice the population of the UK \u2013 have moved from the countryside to the city. This mind-boggling shift has its problems, as I found in Chongqing, but for the most part, China appears to have avoided the worst of the poverty, crime and ghettoes seen in other rapidly urbanising countries.Yet it also seems more brittle, perhaps because of the other big economic engine: infrastructure investment. In this period, China has been re-wired and re-plumbed. There has been an extraordinary expansion of power, transport and communication networks that have linked the nation like never before: west-east gas pipelines, south-north water diversion, hundreds of airports and a massive new electricity grid linking wind and solar power plants in the deserts to power-hungry consumers in cities and industrial plants.This has been a decade of cement and steel, a time when economic development has pushed into the most remote corners of China with a series of prestige projects: the world's highest railway, the biggest dam, the longest bridge, putting a man into space, the most ambitious hydroengineering project in human history and, of course, hosting \u2013 and dominating \u2013 the Olympics for the first time.It has been a privilege to watch this redistribution of wealth and power from the developed to the developing world. On a global level, such a shift will require nothing less than a grand accommodation \u2013 or a violent conflict. Beijing appears to be preparing for both. Other news during this period showed a hardening of China's military muscle: a breakthrough satellite-killing missile test, the launch of a first aircraft carrier, the development of a new stealth fighter and a steady increase in military spending.Criticism has rarely been appreciated. All too often, there have been flare-ups of anti-foreign media hostility. Some of my colleagues in other media organisations have received death threats. I never expected China to be an easy place to work as a journalist. For political and cultural reasons, there is a huge difference in expectations of the media. For historical and geo-strategic reasons, there is a lingering distrust of foreign reporters.Run-ins with the police, local authorities or thugs are depressingly common. I have been detained five times, turned back six times at roadblocks (including during several efforts to visit Tibetan areas) and physically manhandled on a couple of occasions. Members of state security have sometimes followed interviewees and invited my assistants \"out for tea\", to question them on who I was meeting and where I planned to visit. Censors have shut down a partner website that translated Guardian articles into Mandarin. Police have twice seized my journalist credentials, most recently on this year's World Press Freedom Day after I tried to interview the blind human-rights activist Chen Guangcheng in hospital. When that happened, I debated with another British newspaper reporter who was in the same position about whether to report on the confiscation. He argued that it was against his principles for journalists to become part of the story. I used to believe the same, but after nine years in China, I have seen how coverage is influenced by a lack of access, intimidation of sources and official harassment. I now believe reporters are doing a disservice to their readers if they fail to reveal these limitations on their ability to gather information.Yes, there is often negative coverage and yes, many of the positive developments in China are underemphasised. But I don't think it does the country's international image any favours to clumsily choke access to what is happening on the ground.Treated like a spy, I have sometimes had to behave like one. At various times, I've concealed myself under blankets in a car, hidden in a toilet, waited until dark in a safe house and met sources in the middle of the night to avoid detection.At other times, it is Chinese journalists and officials who pull the screen of secrecy aside. Take the foot-and-mouth outbreak on the outskirts of Beijing in 2005. I was first alerted to this by a Chinese reporter, who was frustrated that the propaganda department had ordered the domestic media not to run the story.Foreign ministry officials often tell me China is becoming more open and, indeed, there have been steps in that direction. But restrictions create fertile ground for rumour-mongering. One of the biggest changes in this period has been the spread of ideas through mobile phones and social networks. The 513 million netizens in China (up from 68 million in 2003) have incomparably greater access to information than any previous generation and huge numbers now speak out in ways that might have got them threatened or detained in 2003. Microblogs are perhaps nowhere more influential than in China because there is so little trust of the communist-controlled official media.It has been fun watching netizens create an ingenious new language to evade restrictions. In this anti-authoritarian world, the heroes are the \"grass mud horses\" (which, in Chinese, sounds the same as a core banned phrase: \"Fuck your mother!\") while the villains are the river crabs (which is pronounced like \"harmony\" \u2013 the favourite excuse of the authorities when they crack down on dissent). But ultimately, a journalist wants to see things for him or herself. I will never forget the epic road trips \u2013 across the Tibetan plateau, along the silk road, through the Three Gorges and most memorably from Shangri-la to Xanadu. Along the way, I met remarkable people with extraordinary stories. True to the oft-heard criticism of the foreign media, many were from the \"dark side\": a young man in Shaoguan who confessed \u2013 as the shadows lengthened on the building site where we had our interview \u2013 to killing Uighur co-workers at his toy factory because of a rumour they had raped Han women; a gynaecologist in Yunnan who argued with great conviction that it had once been necessary to tie pregnant women up to carry out abortions; the young boy who found the body of his dead grandmother who killed herself a year after his father \u2013 an illegal migrant \u2013 phoned her to say he was about to drown in what became known as the Morecambe Bay disaster.Other stories literally turned up on my doorstep \u2013 such as the petitioner who arrived at my office a few weeks before I left. We had never met, but it was easy to identify Yang Zhong, who stood out a mile with his country boots, green overalls and bags crammed full of injustice. The look was all too familiar. I have lost count of the number of petitioners who have asked the Guardian to investigate land thefts, corruption cases, industrial accidents, rapes, murders and other alleged abuses of power.Yang had come from Jinshantun village in the far northern province of Heilongjiang to accuse a local forestry chief \u2013 Wang Liguan \u2013 of illegal logging in one of China's last great protected forests and for having him locked up and beaten when he dared to complain. Typically, his story, minutely recorded in reams of papers and even on a DVD, was anything but black and white.Weak laws and strong censorship make it difficult for such people to have their cases heard in the domestic system so they turn to foreign news bureaus. There were so many grim accounts it was impossible to give them all the time and attention they deserved.But there were also stories of success, heroism and inspiration as a nation embraced new wealth and battled for new ideas: the business empires built by enlightened philanthropists such as Yin Mingshan of Lifan auto, the internet fortunes accrued by entrepreneurs such as Jack Ma of Alibaba and Robin Li of Baidu.Compared with nine years ago, people in China have more freedom to shop, to travel and to express their views on the internet. The Communist party tolerates a degree of criticism,but step over the invisible line of what is acceptable and the consequences are brutal. In my first years in China, I interviewed several outspoken opponents \u2013 Liu Xiaobo, Gao Zhisheng, Hu Jia and Teng Biao. I was impressed back then that they were at liberty to speak out. It seemed like the act of a confident government. But all of them have subsequently been locked up and, in at least two cases, tortured.The blame for that surely lies with the authorities. But I have sometimes felt pangs of guilt. I first interviewed Ai Weiwei in the summer of 2007 for an Olympic preview. He was one of the creators of the \"bird's nest\" stadium and I was expecting him to tell me how proud he would be when it was unveiled at the opening ceremony. Instead, he told me he would not attend in protest at the \"disgusting\" political conditions in the one-party state and then launched into a withering assault on propaganda. It was the first time he had expressed such views to the foreign media \u2013 a great scoop, but also one fraught with risk. At the end of the interview, I cautioned the artist: \"Are you sure you want to say this? It could get you into a great deal of trouble with the authorities.\"\"Absolutely,\" he replied. \"I only wish I could say it more clearly.\"Despite that confirmation and the similarly critical comments he subsequently made to other media organisations, I felt partly responsible when Ai was detained last year.Whether the repression is getting better or worse has been a constant question with few clear answers. My feeling is that China has become a less tolerant country since 2008.That was a coming of age of sorts, when China stopped seeming like a work in progress and started looking and behaving like a superpower. On the Beijing skyline, the scaffolding and cranes had been replaced by stunning architectural wonders. The ever-present sentiments of victim-hood and nationalism found powerful outlets in the Tibetan uprising, torch relay protests and the Sichuan earthquake. Meanwhile, those who had supported moves towards a more open, liberal, internationalist China saw the value of their political stock plunge almost as fast as the Dow Jones index in the global financial crisis. With the western model apparently shattered, many in China understandably felt less inclined than ever to listen to outside advice.In the four years since, China has become a more modern and connected nation, but \u2013 despite the official hubris \u2013 it also seems more anxious that the uprisings in the Middle East and North Africa may spread. The government now spends more on internal security than defence of its borders \u2013 a sign that it is more frightened of its own people than any external threat.Little wonder. This has been an era of protest in China. The government stopped releasing figures a few years ago, but academics with access to internal documents say there are tens of thousands of demonstrations each year. The reasons are manifold \u2013 land grabs, ethnic unrest, factory layoffs, corruption cases and territorial disputes. But I have come to believe the fundamental cause is ecological stress: foul air, filthy water, growing pressure on the soil and an ever more desperate quest for resources that is pushing development into remote mountains, deserts and forests that were a last hold-out for bio and ethnic diversity.This is not primarily China's fault. It is a historical, global trend. China is merely roaring along the same unsustainable path set by the developed world, but on a bigger scale, a faster speed and at a period in human history when there is much less ecological room for manoeuvre. The wealthy portion of the world has been exporting environmental stress for centuries. Outsourcing energy-intensive industries and resource extraction have put many problems out of sight and out of mind for western consumers. But they cannot be ignored in China.The worst problems are found in the countryside: \"cancer villages\", toxic spills, pitched battles to block a toxic chemical factory, health hazards from air pollution and water and the rapid depletion of aquifers under the north China plain \u2013 the country's bread-basket.The implications are global. China has become the biggest greenhouse-gas emitter on the planet. This year, it will probably account for half the coal burned in the world. The number of cars on China's roads has increased fourfold since 2003, driving up demand for oil. Meanwhile, there is less and less space and respect for other species. For me, the most profound story of this period was the demise of the baiji \u2013 a Yangtze river dolphin that had been on earth for 20m years but was declared extinct in 2006 as a result of river traffic, pollution, reckless fishing and massive damming.I switched my focus to environment reporting. It was not just the charismatic megafauna and the smog, though the concern about air quality never went away. It is really not funny to send your children off to school on days of high pollution with a cheery \"Try not to breathe too much\", knowing they will probably be kept in at break-times because the air outside is hazardous.As I have noted at greater length elsewhere, I had come to fear that China may be where the 200-odd-year-old carbon-fuelled capital-driven model of economic development runs into an ecological wall. Britain, where it started, and China may be bookends on a period of global expansion that has never been seen before and may never be repeated again.Developed nations have been outsourcing their environmental stress to other countries and future generations for more than two centuries. China is trying to do the same as it looks overseas for food, fuel and minerals to satisfy the rising demand of its cities and factories. This has been extremely good news for economies in Africa, Mongolia, Australia and South AmericaI sympathise with China. It is doing what imperial, dominant powers have done for more than two centuries, but it is harder for China because the planet is running short of land and time.With their engineering backgrounds, President Hu Jintao (a trained hydro-engineer) and premier Wen Jiabao (one of China's leading experts on rare earth minerals) are probably better aware than most global leaders about the challenge this poses. While there has been almost no political reform during their terms of office, there have been several ambitious steps forward in terms of environmental policy: anti-desertification campaigns; tree planting; an environmental transparency law; adoption of carbon targets; eco-services compensation; eco accounting; caps on water; lower economic growth targets; the 12th Five-Year Plan; debate and increased monitoring of PM2.5 [fine particulate matter] and huge investments in eco-cities, \"clean car\" manufacturing, public transport, energy-saving devices and renewable technology. The far western deserts of China have been filled with wind farms and solar panels.That is the most hopeful story of this grey era. If China could emerge from the smog with a low-carbon economy, it would be a boon for the world. But talk of the world's first green superpower remains as premature as the image of the \"red menace\" is outdated.When my predecessor, John Gittings, left China after 25 years, he presciently foresaw how the the old cold war stereotypes would be shattered by the country's speed of development. But that is just the start of realignment. In the future, I believe the most important political division will not be between left and right, but between conservers and consumers. The old battle of \"equality versus competition\" in the allocation of the resource pie will become secondary to maintaining the pie itself.But the transition has some way to go. In the next 10 years, China is likely to build more dams than the US managed in its entire history and, despite the Fukushima disaster, it plans to construct more about 20 new nuclear power stations. But even with this huge expansion of non-fossil-fuel-based energy, if the economy continues to grow at its current pace China will require about 50% more coal than it currently burns.I expect there will be a slowdown before then as overseas markets contract and domestic investment suffers from the law of diminishing returns. Long-hidden environmental costs \u2013 over-depletion of key resources and under-regulation of waste \u2013 will force their way onto corporate balance books and national budgets in the form of turbulent commodity prices and higher clean-up expenses. China may well look back on the Hu and Wen era as a golden age of growth and perhaps a missed opportunity to put in place the reforms needs to adjust to leaner times.Meanwhile a new leadership \u2013 almost certainly to be headed by Xi Jinping and Li Keqiang \u2013 will take the helm at this autumn's party congress. They will have their work cut out. While the Hu-Wen era was one of construction, Xi and Li will have to put more effort into maintenance. This will require more than the creation of wealth and construction jobs; it will require a system with greater flexibility, efficiency and a new set of values. I expect that transition will be more turbulent than anything seen in the past 10 years. But success or failure, I believe it will remain the most important story in the world.So why am I leaving? Well, over the years, I have come to feel increasing respect, sympathy and affection for China, but also more pessimism. Journalists here are worn down like brake pads on a speeding juggernaut. Such cynicism is not healthy. I hope a change of scene will allow me to see China \u2013 and the world \u2013 afresh. Regardless of Beijing's choking smog, traffic and politics, it will be hard to match living and working in China. I shall miss hikes along wild stretches of the Great Wall, swimming under remote waterfalls, wandering through vibrant hutongs, incredible food and some of the smartest company I have encountered anywhere in the world.In the past few weeks, I have said goodbyes to places, friends, long-suffering assistants and sources, some of whom have become global names as their country has risen in prominence over the past nine years: the environmentalist Ma Jun (winner of this year's Goldman Prize), the lawyer Teng Biao, journalist Li Datong, the rights activists Hu Jia (winner of the Sakharov human-rights prize), and Zeng Jinyan; the social network guru Isaac Mao, the public intellectual Wang Xiaoshan and the artist Ai Weiwei (recently named \"the most powerful artist on earth\").On my final weekend in China, I went to Weiwei's grey-walled home in the Caochangdi art district. He was with his wife, two aides, a film crew and two lawyers, but as gregarious and mischievous as ever.\"It's hot. Let's take our clothes off,\" said Weiwei, who proceeded to strip to the waist. I was too shy to follow suit. So was everyone else. The lawyers simply proceeded with their brief about the next stage in his tax case.I couldn't stay. The China story was moving on again. News had just come in that Chen Guangcheng was at Beijing airport, about to board a plane to the US. After six years of house arrest and prison, he was finally flying to freedom. I said my goodbyes and wandered home to write up what felt like an uplifting article to finish on. I knew though, that it was not really the end. For all the hardship Chen endured, I guessed he would miss China. I certainly will. This is a peak and perhaps one for mankind.\u2022 Jonathan Watts will be based in Rio de Janeiro as Latin America correspondent from July.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Ai Weiwei", "Art and design", "Environment", "Pollution", "Censorship", "Hu Jintao", "Journalist safety", "Media"], "title": "China: witnessing the birth of a superpower"},{"date": "2013-07-16T13:01:21Z", "country": "china", "content": "The air was thick and heavy with the smell of yak. Feeling slightly sick and light-headed from the squeeze and stuffiness, I asked the bus driver to stop by the roadside for a breather. As I spilled out on to the road, so did my morning meal.I was on the road in Gannan (Southern Gansu), heading for Langmusi, a sleepy Tibetan town straddling Sichuan and Gansu province. The rest of Gansu province is better known for its tasteless, bone-dry deserts and Unesco-accredited grottoes. Its arid weather is as erratic as its bus timetables, with sharp temperature fluctuations of 10C even in summer. In the south though, a little piece of heaven exists for those who seek it.The town of Langmusi has a feeling of a supernatural peace and unsurprisingly so. At all times of the day, devout locals murmur chants as they turn prayer wheels outside the monasteries.Guidebooks will point you to Sertri Gompa and Kirti Gompa for a visit, and even if you have missed the intricate architecture on the inside, its red and gold roofs shimmering in the sunset will leave you with a profound impression. It is also along these windswept corridors that one catches a rare glimpse of Tibet as monks scurry in and out the monasteries for their appointed prayers.While the folds of their robes and deeply wrinkled faces make for a great black and white portrait, do be aware that many are not particularly comfortable about being in front of the camera. Ask before you shoot.Despite its spirituality, the town is also a bustling centre of trade, wooing visitors with indigenous handicrafts, silverware and hand-woven scarves made from yak's wool. After a couple of beers, it is easy to make friends here and organise enough people for a trek \u2013 by horse or on foot \u2013 into the surrounding mountains, or better still, a day trip to Zoige, another piece of heaven said to be China's fourth-largest grassland.The view of Langmusi from a hilltop was all the more appreciated knowing that this was a place that could face the consequence of accelerated desertification triggered by climate change.As the sun finally went down, I took one last shot before heading back to the town centre to haggle for a good piece of yak wool shawl.Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Tibet", "China", "China holidays", "Tibet holidays"], "title": "Letter from China:  spirit quest"},{"date": "2013-07-16T13:01:21Z", "country": "china", "content": "The air was thick and heavy with the smell of yak. Feeling slightly sick and light-headed from the squeeze and stuffiness, I asked the bus driver to stop by the roadside for a breather. As I spilled out on to the road, so did my morning meal.I was on the road in Gannan (Southern Gansu), heading for Langmusi, a sleepy Tibetan town straddling Sichuan and Gansu province. The rest of Gansu province is better known for its tasteless, bone-dry deserts and Unesco-accredited grottoes. Its arid weather is as erratic as its bus timetables, with sharp temperature fluctuations of 10C even in summer. In the south though, a little piece of heaven exists for those who seek it.The town of Langmusi has a feeling of a supernatural peace and unsurprisingly so. At all times of the day, devout locals murmur chants as they turn prayer wheels outside the monasteries.Guidebooks will point you to Sertri Gompa and Kirti Gompa for a visit, and even if you have missed the intricate architecture on the inside, its red and gold roofs shimmering in the sunset will leave you with a profound impression. It is also along these windswept corridors that one catches a rare glimpse of Tibet as monks scurry in and out the monasteries for their appointed prayers.While the folds of their robes and deeply wrinkled faces make for a great black and white portrait, do be aware that many are not particularly comfortable about being in front of the camera. Ask before you shoot.Despite its spirituality, the town is also a bustling centre of trade, wooing visitors with indigenous handicrafts, silverware and hand-woven scarves made from yak's wool. After a couple of beers, it is easy to make friends here and organise enough people for a trek \u2013 by horse or on foot \u2013 into the surrounding mountains, or better still, a day trip to Zoige, another piece of heaven said to be China's fourth-largest grassland.The view of Langmusi from a hilltop was all the more appreciated knowing that this was a place that could face the consequence of accelerated desertification triggered by climate change.As the sun finally went down, I took one last shot before heading back to the town centre to haggle for a good piece of yak wool shawl.Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Tibet", "China", "China holidays", "Tibet holidays"], "title": "Letter from China:  spirit quest"},{"date": "2013-09-12T14:18:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Rebranding China has been key to much debate among the several thousand Asian and Asia-facing business executives, politicians and officials at this year's World Economic Forum meeting in Dalian, one of China's greener cities. But what brand would suit China's reinvented world role?Will its inspiring commitment to a harmonious, \"ecological civilisation\" \u2013 underpinned by policy, finance, the rule of law and a growing community of innovative and responsible businesses \u2013 mature into a trusted, global brand? Or will its profile as an economic and military giant, powered by an environmentally bankrupt and increasingly unequal society, come to dominate China's reputation?Liu Changle, Phoenix Chairman and CEO, speaking on a panel beamed live on his own Chinese TV network, compared China's challenge with the branding success of the World Economic Forum itself. \"Davos was once a village\", he declared, \"but it is now a global brand\", explaining that Klaus Schwab's genius lay in the fact that the brand now had nothing at all to do with that little place hidden away in the Swiss Alps.Actually, this view is pretty much on the button, notably as the WEF event in China has been branded successfully as the Summer Davos. But Liu's insights are a cause for concern for those who believe that credible branding needs to reflect what is true, whether the substance concerns the quality of Nike's running shoes, or the individual freedom trumpeted by the American dream. His view is all the more worrying when applied to China, as its approach to sustainability issues will be this century's defining driver.Richard Edelman, president and CEO of Edelman, and creator of the annual Edelman Trust Index, offered a different perspective. \"The China brand has to evoke images of transparency,\" he said, proposing that leading Chinese companies adopt an electronically-enabled product-based label allowing customers to view information about the company and the way in which the product was made. By my count, my enthusiasm for the proposal put me in a very small minority in what was an extremely crowded room.Later, I asked a leading Chinese business journalist why he thought that no Chinese companies had grasped the opportunity to provide high quality, and higher priced, food to higher income Chinese consumers, given the almost daily number of food scares. Offering first a personal response, he explained that when he wanted vegetables he would pick up the phone to a specialist, organic supplier. Milk on his table at home, he said, was most definitely of the imported, and expensive, variety.Then, rather than offering a business-focused answer, he provided more of a political analysis. Delivering cheap food to the hundreds of millions of urban migrants, he explained, was key to maintaining stability. Fears that higher quality food would raise food prices to unaffordable levels to this crucial constituency was slowing the pace of change. Eventually, he argued, China would sort out its supply chains and deliver safe food, but right now cheap and piled high was the order of the day.Richard Edelman bemoaned the fact that China was known more for its government's actions than its business community. And he is right, but the importance of China's government is not going to fall away any time soon. Premier Li Keqiang was the centrepiece of the formal opening event of the Summer Davos, taking up the tradition of Chinese leaders' patronage of the event, fulfilled by Premier Wen Jiabao in previous years. His message was clear: China was open for business, but the rules of the game might need to evolve from past experience.Clearly, the time has passed when multinationals will receive preferential treatment in return for investment into China, as I pointed out in a recent article. Beyond that, Li Keqiang emphasised the importance of reciprocity, that Chinese business should be welcomed by countries whose businesses might want to operate in China. He confirmed China's continued support for the multilateral trading system, while pointing out the pressures that this has placed on the business community, and warning against evidence of protectionism blocking China's market access.China's brand, unlike Schwab's Global Davos, cannot be separated from its true self. Its brand will be determined by what is done in its name, for and by its people, businesses and government. Shaping its image to deflect the evidence that it is better or worse than it is, will not work. China's leading businesses, and now also multinationals operating in China, understand that their image and that of China are inextricably linked.Simon Zadek is currently a Visiting Scholar at Tsinghua School of Economics and Management, and a senior fellow at the International Institute for Sustainable Development and the Global Green Growth Institute. This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. Become GSB member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Sustainability", "China"], "title": "Rebranding China: will sustainability win through?"},{"date": "2013-07-16T13:01:21Z", "country": "china", "content": "The air was thick and heavy with the smell of yak. Feeling slightly sick and light-headed from the squeeze and stuffiness, I asked the bus driver to stop by the roadside for a breather. As I spilled out on to the road, so did my morning meal.I was on the road in Gannan (Southern Gansu), heading for Langmusi, a sleepy Tibetan town straddling Sichuan and Gansu province. The rest of Gansu province is better known for its tasteless, bone-dry deserts and Unesco-accredited grottoes. Its arid weather is as erratic as its bus timetables, with sharp temperature fluctuations of 10C even in summer. In the south though, a little piece of heaven exists for those who seek it.The town of Langmusi has a feeling of a supernatural peace and unsurprisingly so. At all times of the day, devout locals murmur chants as they turn prayer wheels outside the monasteries.Guidebooks will point you to Sertri Gompa and Kirti Gompa for a visit, and even if you have missed the intricate architecture on the inside, its red and gold roofs shimmering in the sunset will leave you with a profound impression. It is also along these windswept corridors that one catches a rare glimpse of Tibet as monks scurry in and out the monasteries for their appointed prayers.While the folds of their robes and deeply wrinkled faces make for a great black and white portrait, do be aware that many are not particularly comfortable about being in front of the camera. Ask before you shoot.Despite its spirituality, the town is also a bustling centre of trade, wooing visitors with indigenous handicrafts, silverware and hand-woven scarves made from yak's wool. After a couple of beers, it is easy to make friends here and organise enough people for a trek \u2013 by horse or on foot \u2013 into the surrounding mountains, or better still, a day trip to Zoige, another piece of heaven said to be China's fourth-largest grassland.The view of Langmusi from a hilltop was all the more appreciated knowing that this was a place that could face the consequence of accelerated desertification triggered by climate change.As the sun finally went down, I took one last shot before heading back to the town centre to haggle for a good piece of yak wool shawl.Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Tibet", "China", "China holidays", "Tibet holidays"], "title": "Letter from China:  spirit quest"},{"date": "2013-09-12T14:18:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Rebranding China has been key to much debate among the several thousand Asian and Asia-facing business executives, politicians and officials at this year's World Economic Forum meeting in Dalian, one of China's greener cities. But what brand would suit China's reinvented world role?Will its inspiring commitment to a harmonious, \"ecological civilisation\" \u2013 underpinned by policy, finance, the rule of law and a growing community of innovative and responsible businesses \u2013 mature into a trusted, global brand? Or will its profile as an economic and military giant, powered by an environmentally bankrupt and increasingly unequal society, come to dominate China's reputation?Liu Changle, Phoenix Chairman and CEO, speaking on a panel beamed live on his own Chinese TV network, compared China's challenge with the branding success of the World Economic Forum itself. \"Davos was once a village\", he declared, \"but it is now a global brand\", explaining that Klaus Schwab's genius lay in the fact that the brand now had nothing at all to do with that little place hidden away in the Swiss Alps.Actually, this view is pretty much on the button, notably as the WEF event in China has been branded successfully as the Summer Davos. But Liu's insights are a cause for concern for those who believe that credible branding needs to reflect what is true, whether the substance concerns the quality of Nike's running shoes, or the individual freedom trumpeted by the American dream. His view is all the more worrying when applied to China, as its approach to sustainability issues will be this century's defining driver.Richard Edelman, president and CEO of Edelman, and creator of the annual Edelman Trust Index, offered a different perspective. \"The China brand has to evoke images of transparency,\" he said, proposing that leading Chinese companies adopt an electronically-enabled product-based label allowing customers to view information about the company and the way in which the product was made. By my count, my enthusiasm for the proposal put me in a very small minority in what was an extremely crowded room.Later, I asked a leading Chinese business journalist why he thought that no Chinese companies had grasped the opportunity to provide high quality, and higher priced, food to higher income Chinese consumers, given the almost daily number of food scares. Offering first a personal response, he explained that when he wanted vegetables he would pick up the phone to a specialist, organic supplier. Milk on his table at home, he said, was most definitely of the imported, and expensive, variety.Then, rather than offering a business-focused answer, he provided more of a political analysis. Delivering cheap food to the hundreds of millions of urban migrants, he explained, was key to maintaining stability. Fears that higher quality food would raise food prices to unaffordable levels to this crucial constituency was slowing the pace of change. Eventually, he argued, China would sort out its supply chains and deliver safe food, but right now cheap and piled high was the order of the day.Richard Edelman bemoaned the fact that China was known more for its government's actions than its business community. And he is right, but the importance of China's government is not going to fall away any time soon. Premier Li Keqiang was the centrepiece of the formal opening event of the Summer Davos, taking up the tradition of Chinese leaders' patronage of the event, fulfilled by Premier Wen Jiabao in previous years. His message was clear: China was open for business, but the rules of the game might need to evolve from past experience.Clearly, the time has passed when multinationals will receive preferential treatment in return for investment into China, as I pointed out in a recent article. Beyond that, Li Keqiang emphasised the importance of reciprocity, that Chinese business should be welcomed by countries whose businesses might want to operate in China. He confirmed China's continued support for the multilateral trading system, while pointing out the pressures that this has placed on the business community, and warning against evidence of protectionism blocking China's market access.China's brand, unlike Schwab's Global Davos, cannot be separated from its true self. Its brand will be determined by what is done in its name, for and by its people, businesses and government. Shaping its image to deflect the evidence that it is better or worse than it is, will not work. China's leading businesses, and now also multinationals operating in China, understand that their image and that of China are inextricably linked.Simon Zadek is currently a Visiting Scholar at Tsinghua School of Economics and Management, and a senior fellow at the International Institute for Sustainable Development and the Global Green Growth Institute. This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. Become GSB member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Sustainability", "China"], "title": "Rebranding China: will sustainability win through?"},{"date": "2013-08-27T05:02:37Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has given the first official confirmation of charges against a British-American couple embroiled in the GlaxoSmithKline bribery case.An announcement by the Xinhua News Agency said Peter Humphrey and his wife, Yu Yingzeng, who both operate private investigation firm ChinaWhys, had been detained since July on charges of illegally trading in personal information about Chinese citizens.Xinhua said reports prepared by their agency included information that infringed the privacy rights of Chinese citizens. ChinaWhys says its services for corporate clients include screening potential employees or business partners.The couple's arrest had earlier been announced by their family and the British embassy in Beijing. GSK has been accused by China of funnelling up to 3bn yuan (\u00a3312m) to travel agencies to facilitate bribes to doctors and officials. It remains unclear whether the couple's arrest relates directly to that case but they were apparently arrested as part of the GSK investigation.Humphrey and Yu's ChinaWhys had done work with drug companies including GSK, according to sources of the Reuters news agency where Humphrey worked as a journalist in the 1980s and 90s. The ChinaWhys website says he has been a risk management specialist and corporate detective for 14 years.Humphrey, a Briton, and Yu, an American, were detained in Shanghai on 10 July by police investigating bribery allegations against GlaxoSmithKline.In China an arrest typically means police believe they have enough evidence for a case to be brought to trial. Detentions can last for weeks and end in release without charges being filed.", "tags": ["China", "GlaxoSmithKline", "US news", "UK news", "World news"], "title": "GlaxoSmithKline case: China charges British-American couple"},{"date": "2013-07-16T13:01:21Z", "country": "china", "content": "The air was thick and heavy with the smell of yak. Feeling slightly sick and light-headed from the squeeze and stuffiness, I asked the bus driver to stop by the roadside for a breather. As I spilled out on to the road, so did my morning meal.I was on the road in Gannan (Southern Gansu), heading for Langmusi, a sleepy Tibetan town straddling Sichuan and Gansu province. The rest of Gansu province is better known for its tasteless, bone-dry deserts and Unesco-accredited grottoes. Its arid weather is as erratic as its bus timetables, with sharp temperature fluctuations of 10C even in summer. In the south though, a little piece of heaven exists for those who seek it.The town of Langmusi has a feeling of a supernatural peace and unsurprisingly so. At all times of the day, devout locals murmur chants as they turn prayer wheels outside the monasteries.Guidebooks will point you to Sertri Gompa and Kirti Gompa for a visit, and even if you have missed the intricate architecture on the inside, its red and gold roofs shimmering in the sunset will leave you with a profound impression. It is also along these windswept corridors that one catches a rare glimpse of Tibet as monks scurry in and out the monasteries for their appointed prayers.While the folds of their robes and deeply wrinkled faces make for a great black and white portrait, do be aware that many are not particularly comfortable about being in front of the camera. Ask before you shoot.Despite its spirituality, the town is also a bustling centre of trade, wooing visitors with indigenous handicrafts, silverware and hand-woven scarves made from yak's wool. After a couple of beers, it is easy to make friends here and organise enough people for a trek \u2013 by horse or on foot \u2013 into the surrounding mountains, or better still, a day trip to Zoige, another piece of heaven said to be China's fourth-largest grassland.The view of Langmusi from a hilltop was all the more appreciated knowing that this was a place that could face the consequence of accelerated desertification triggered by climate change.As the sun finally went down, I took one last shot before heading back to the town centre to haggle for a good piece of yak wool shawl.Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Tibet", "China", "China holidays", "Tibet holidays"], "title": "Letter from China:  spirit quest"},{"date": "2013-09-12T14:18:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Rebranding China has been key to much debate among the several thousand Asian and Asia-facing business executives, politicians and officials at this year's World Economic Forum meeting in Dalian, one of China's greener cities. But what brand would suit China's reinvented world role?Will its inspiring commitment to a harmonious, \"ecological civilisation\" \u2013 underpinned by policy, finance, the rule of law and a growing community of innovative and responsible businesses \u2013 mature into a trusted, global brand? Or will its profile as an economic and military giant, powered by an environmentally bankrupt and increasingly unequal society, come to dominate China's reputation?Liu Changle, Phoenix Chairman and CEO, speaking on a panel beamed live on his own Chinese TV network, compared China's challenge with the branding success of the World Economic Forum itself. \"Davos was once a village\", he declared, \"but it is now a global brand\", explaining that Klaus Schwab's genius lay in the fact that the brand now had nothing at all to do with that little place hidden away in the Swiss Alps.Actually, this view is pretty much on the button, notably as the WEF event in China has been branded successfully as the Summer Davos. But Liu's insights are a cause for concern for those who believe that credible branding needs to reflect what is true, whether the substance concerns the quality of Nike's running shoes, or the individual freedom trumpeted by the American dream. His view is all the more worrying when applied to China, as its approach to sustainability issues will be this century's defining driver.Richard Edelman, president and CEO of Edelman, and creator of the annual Edelman Trust Index, offered a different perspective. \"The China brand has to evoke images of transparency,\" he said, proposing that leading Chinese companies adopt an electronically-enabled product-based label allowing customers to view information about the company and the way in which the product was made. By my count, my enthusiasm for the proposal put me in a very small minority in what was an extremely crowded room.Later, I asked a leading Chinese business journalist why he thought that no Chinese companies had grasped the opportunity to provide high quality, and higher priced, food to higher income Chinese consumers, given the almost daily number of food scares. Offering first a personal response, he explained that when he wanted vegetables he would pick up the phone to a specialist, organic supplier. Milk on his table at home, he said, was most definitely of the imported, and expensive, variety.Then, rather than offering a business-focused answer, he provided more of a political analysis. Delivering cheap food to the hundreds of millions of urban migrants, he explained, was key to maintaining stability. Fears that higher quality food would raise food prices to unaffordable levels to this crucial constituency was slowing the pace of change. Eventually, he argued, China would sort out its supply chains and deliver safe food, but right now cheap and piled high was the order of the day.Richard Edelman bemoaned the fact that China was known more for its government's actions than its business community. And he is right, but the importance of China's government is not going to fall away any time soon. Premier Li Keqiang was the centrepiece of the formal opening event of the Summer Davos, taking up the tradition of Chinese leaders' patronage of the event, fulfilled by Premier Wen Jiabao in previous years. His message was clear: China was open for business, but the rules of the game might need to evolve from past experience.Clearly, the time has passed when multinationals will receive preferential treatment in return for investment into China, as I pointed out in a recent article. Beyond that, Li Keqiang emphasised the importance of reciprocity, that Chinese business should be welcomed by countries whose businesses might want to operate in China. He confirmed China's continued support for the multilateral trading system, while pointing out the pressures that this has placed on the business community, and warning against evidence of protectionism blocking China's market access.China's brand, unlike Schwab's Global Davos, cannot be separated from its true self. Its brand will be determined by what is done in its name, for and by its people, businesses and government. Shaping its image to deflect the evidence that it is better or worse than it is, will not work. China's leading businesses, and now also multinationals operating in China, understand that their image and that of China are inextricably linked.Simon Zadek is currently a Visiting Scholar at Tsinghua School of Economics and Management, and a senior fellow at the International Institute for Sustainable Development and the Global Green Growth Institute. This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. Become GSB member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Sustainability", "China"], "title": "Rebranding China: will sustainability win through?"},{"date": "2013-08-27T05:02:37Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has given the first official confirmation of charges against a British-American couple embroiled in the GlaxoSmithKline bribery case.An announcement by the Xinhua News Agency said Peter Humphrey and his wife, Yu Yingzeng, who both operate private investigation firm ChinaWhys, had been detained since July on charges of illegally trading in personal information about Chinese citizens.Xinhua said reports prepared by their agency included information that infringed the privacy rights of Chinese citizens. ChinaWhys says its services for corporate clients include screening potential employees or business partners.The couple's arrest had earlier been announced by their family and the British embassy in Beijing. GSK has been accused by China of funnelling up to 3bn yuan (\u00a3312m) to travel agencies to facilitate bribes to doctors and officials. It remains unclear whether the couple's arrest relates directly to that case but they were apparently arrested as part of the GSK investigation.Humphrey and Yu's ChinaWhys had done work with drug companies including GSK, according to sources of the Reuters news agency where Humphrey worked as a journalist in the 1980s and 90s. The ChinaWhys website says he has been a risk management specialist and corporate detective for 14 years.Humphrey, a Briton, and Yu, an American, were detained in Shanghai on 10 July by police investigating bribery allegations against GlaxoSmithKline.In China an arrest typically means police believe they have enough evidence for a case to be brought to trial. Detentions can last for weeks and end in release without charges being filed.", "tags": ["China", "GlaxoSmithKline", "US news", "UK news", "World news"], "title": "GlaxoSmithKline case: China charges British-American couple"},{"date": "2013-08-27T16:38:55Z", "country": "china", "content": "Tiffany, the New York-based jeweller, said its second-quarter profits were up 16% to $106m (\u00a368.3m) driven by strong sales in China.The company, which sponsored Baz Luhrmann's The Great Gatsby, said revenue from stores open at least a year were up 5%. Total sales for the quarter were $956m.Defying the continued fallout from the eurozone crisis, sales in mainland Europe and the UK were up 11%. Sales in the Americas were 2% higher overall and, in Japan, they fell 14%, dragged down by a weaker yen.But Asia-Pacific sales climbed 20%, led by strong results in China, which is considered a bellwether for the luxury market.The results came as figures showed Americans' confidence in the economy inched closer to its highest point in five-and-a-half years on growing optimism that hiring and wages could pick up in coming months.The Conference Board said today that its consumer confidence index rose to 81.5 in August, up from 81 in July and just below June's 82.1 reading, which was the highest since January 2008.Consumers' income expectations, which fell this year after a January tax increase, rebounded to the highest level in two-and-a-half years, said Lynn Franco, director of the Conference Board's economic indicators.Although consumers were more confident about the future, their assessment of the economy dipped slightly in August.Consumers' confidence in the economy is watched closely because their spending accounts for about 70% of US economic activity.After hitting bottom at 25.3 in February 2009, the index has bounced back, but it has yet to attain a reading of 90, which signals a healthy economy.", "tags": ["Consumer spending", "Economics", "Business", "US economy"], "title": "Tiffany's sales growth powered by China"},{"date": "2013-07-16T13:01:21Z", "country": "china", "content": "The air was thick and heavy with the smell of yak. Feeling slightly sick and light-headed from the squeeze and stuffiness, I asked the bus driver to stop by the roadside for a breather. As I spilled out on to the road, so did my morning meal.I was on the road in Gannan (Southern Gansu), heading for Langmusi, a sleepy Tibetan town straddling Sichuan and Gansu province. The rest of Gansu province is better known for its tasteless, bone-dry deserts and Unesco-accredited grottoes. Its arid weather is as erratic as its bus timetables, with sharp temperature fluctuations of 10C even in summer. In the south though, a little piece of heaven exists for those who seek it.The town of Langmusi has a feeling of a supernatural peace and unsurprisingly so. At all times of the day, devout locals murmur chants as they turn prayer wheels outside the monasteries.Guidebooks will point you to Sertri Gompa and Kirti Gompa for a visit, and even if you have missed the intricate architecture on the inside, its red and gold roofs shimmering in the sunset will leave you with a profound impression. It is also along these windswept corridors that one catches a rare glimpse of Tibet as monks scurry in and out the monasteries for their appointed prayers.While the folds of their robes and deeply wrinkled faces make for a great black and white portrait, do be aware that many are not particularly comfortable about being in front of the camera. Ask before you shoot.Despite its spirituality, the town is also a bustling centre of trade, wooing visitors with indigenous handicrafts, silverware and hand-woven scarves made from yak's wool. After a couple of beers, it is easy to make friends here and organise enough people for a trek \u2013 by horse or on foot \u2013 into the surrounding mountains, or better still, a day trip to Zoige, another piece of heaven said to be China's fourth-largest grassland.The view of Langmusi from a hilltop was all the more appreciated knowing that this was a place that could face the consequence of accelerated desertification triggered by climate change.As the sun finally went down, I took one last shot before heading back to the town centre to haggle for a good piece of yak wool shawl.Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Tibet", "China", "China holidays", "Tibet holidays"], "title": "Letter from China:  spirit quest"},{"date": "2013-09-12T14:18:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Rebranding China has been key to much debate among the several thousand Asian and Asia-facing business executives, politicians and officials at this year's World Economic Forum meeting in Dalian, one of China's greener cities. But what brand would suit China's reinvented world role?Will its inspiring commitment to a harmonious, \"ecological civilisation\" \u2013 underpinned by policy, finance, the rule of law and a growing community of innovative and responsible businesses \u2013 mature into a trusted, global brand? Or will its profile as an economic and military giant, powered by an environmentally bankrupt and increasingly unequal society, come to dominate China's reputation?Liu Changle, Phoenix Chairman and CEO, speaking on a panel beamed live on his own Chinese TV network, compared China's challenge with the branding success of the World Economic Forum itself. \"Davos was once a village\", he declared, \"but it is now a global brand\", explaining that Klaus Schwab's genius lay in the fact that the brand now had nothing at all to do with that little place hidden away in the Swiss Alps.Actually, this view is pretty much on the button, notably as the WEF event in China has been branded successfully as the Summer Davos. But Liu's insights are a cause for concern for those who believe that credible branding needs to reflect what is true, whether the substance concerns the quality of Nike's running shoes, or the individual freedom trumpeted by the American dream. His view is all the more worrying when applied to China, as its approach to sustainability issues will be this century's defining driver.Richard Edelman, president and CEO of Edelman, and creator of the annual Edelman Trust Index, offered a different perspective. \"The China brand has to evoke images of transparency,\" he said, proposing that leading Chinese companies adopt an electronically-enabled product-based label allowing customers to view information about the company and the way in which the product was made. By my count, my enthusiasm for the proposal put me in a very small minority in what was an extremely crowded room.Later, I asked a leading Chinese business journalist why he thought that no Chinese companies had grasped the opportunity to provide high quality, and higher priced, food to higher income Chinese consumers, given the almost daily number of food scares. Offering first a personal response, he explained that when he wanted vegetables he would pick up the phone to a specialist, organic supplier. Milk on his table at home, he said, was most definitely of the imported, and expensive, variety.Then, rather than offering a business-focused answer, he provided more of a political analysis. Delivering cheap food to the hundreds of millions of urban migrants, he explained, was key to maintaining stability. Fears that higher quality food would raise food prices to unaffordable levels to this crucial constituency was slowing the pace of change. Eventually, he argued, China would sort out its supply chains and deliver safe food, but right now cheap and piled high was the order of the day.Richard Edelman bemoaned the fact that China was known more for its government's actions than its business community. And he is right, but the importance of China's government is not going to fall away any time soon. Premier Li Keqiang was the centrepiece of the formal opening event of the Summer Davos, taking up the tradition of Chinese leaders' patronage of the event, fulfilled by Premier Wen Jiabao in previous years. His message was clear: China was open for business, but the rules of the game might need to evolve from past experience.Clearly, the time has passed when multinationals will receive preferential treatment in return for investment into China, as I pointed out in a recent article. Beyond that, Li Keqiang emphasised the importance of reciprocity, that Chinese business should be welcomed by countries whose businesses might want to operate in China. He confirmed China's continued support for the multilateral trading system, while pointing out the pressures that this has placed on the business community, and warning against evidence of protectionism blocking China's market access.China's brand, unlike Schwab's Global Davos, cannot be separated from its true self. Its brand will be determined by what is done in its name, for and by its people, businesses and government. Shaping its image to deflect the evidence that it is better or worse than it is, will not work. China's leading businesses, and now also multinationals operating in China, understand that their image and that of China are inextricably linked.Simon Zadek is currently a Visiting Scholar at Tsinghua School of Economics and Management, and a senior fellow at the International Institute for Sustainable Development and the Global Green Growth Institute. This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. Become GSB member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Sustainability", "China"], "title": "Rebranding China: will sustainability win through?"},{"date": "2013-08-27T05:02:37Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has given the first official confirmation of charges against a British-American couple embroiled in the GlaxoSmithKline bribery case.An announcement by the Xinhua News Agency said Peter Humphrey and his wife, Yu Yingzeng, who both operate private investigation firm ChinaWhys, had been detained since July on charges of illegally trading in personal information about Chinese citizens.Xinhua said reports prepared by their agency included information that infringed the privacy rights of Chinese citizens. ChinaWhys says its services for corporate clients include screening potential employees or business partners.The couple's arrest had earlier been announced by their family and the British embassy in Beijing. GSK has been accused by China of funnelling up to 3bn yuan (\u00a3312m) to travel agencies to facilitate bribes to doctors and officials. It remains unclear whether the couple's arrest relates directly to that case but they were apparently arrested as part of the GSK investigation.Humphrey and Yu's ChinaWhys had done work with drug companies including GSK, according to sources of the Reuters news agency where Humphrey worked as a journalist in the 1980s and 90s. The ChinaWhys website says he has been a risk management specialist and corporate detective for 14 years.Humphrey, a Briton, and Yu, an American, were detained in Shanghai on 10 July by police investigating bribery allegations against GlaxoSmithKline.In China an arrest typically means police believe they have enough evidence for a case to be brought to trial. Detentions can last for weeks and end in release without charges being filed.", "tags": ["China", "GlaxoSmithKline", "US news", "UK news", "World news"], "title": "GlaxoSmithKline case: China charges British-American couple"},{"date": "2013-08-27T16:38:55Z", "country": "china", "content": "Tiffany, the New York-based jeweller, said its second-quarter profits were up 16% to $106m (\u00a368.3m) driven by strong sales in China.The company, which sponsored Baz Luhrmann's The Great Gatsby, said revenue from stores open at least a year were up 5%. Total sales for the quarter were $956m.Defying the continued fallout from the eurozone crisis, sales in mainland Europe and the UK were up 11%. Sales in the Americas were 2% higher overall and, in Japan, they fell 14%, dragged down by a weaker yen.But Asia-Pacific sales climbed 20%, led by strong results in China, which is considered a bellwether for the luxury market.The results came as figures showed Americans' confidence in the economy inched closer to its highest point in five-and-a-half years on growing optimism that hiring and wages could pick up in coming months.The Conference Board said today that its consumer confidence index rose to 81.5 in August, up from 81 in July and just below June's 82.1 reading, which was the highest since January 2008.Consumers' income expectations, which fell this year after a January tax increase, rebounded to the highest level in two-and-a-half years, said Lynn Franco, director of the Conference Board's economic indicators.Although consumers were more confident about the future, their assessment of the economy dipped slightly in August.Consumers' confidence in the economy is watched closely because their spending accounts for about 70% of US economic activity.After hitting bottom at 25.3 in February 2009, the index has bounced back, but it has yet to attain a reading of 90, which signals a healthy economy.", "tags": ["Consumer spending", "Economics", "Business", "US economy"], "title": "Tiffany's sales growth powered by China"},{"date": "2013-08-25T22:13:18Z", "country": "china", "content": "Bo Xilai's trial has confounded all predictions. In a country where criminal proceedings are normally measured in hours, and are formalistic, procedural affairs whose outcome is decided elsewhere and well in advance, Mr Bo's trial has been anything but scripted. As the hearing went into its fifth day, the once-powerful regional party chief has mounted the defence of a lifetime. He has grandstanded the hearing, presenting himself as indomitable and unyielding. He has rounded on his accusers, calling the main prosecution witness a mad dog, and his wife's testimony laughable and the product of a mentally unbalanced mind. Some of the exchanges in the Jinan intermediate people's court have been released in real-time by a court microblog and have been the subject of heated national debate. Those, like the businessmen Xu Ming, who gave their testimony in person have been mauled in cross-examination by Mr Bo.If there is little doubt that Mr Bo will go down \u2013 and most analysts believe for at least a decade \u2013 he is now more likely to do so in a manner that keeps his large, loyal, grassroots following intact. He could even be rehabilitated at some point in the future. The nation has had a ringside seat, and although the online posts have not been free of editing (the court transcripts have gone into greater detail into the evidence against him than into his rebuttals of the statements of witnesses) no one can say that Mr Bo has been denied his say in court.It is difficult to say what this means. There can be no doubt that Mr Bo's treatment in court has been privileged and unusual. To that extent, it has been authorised to present the appearance of a fair and open trial. Assuming that permission for such a freewheeling trial came from Beijing, rather than Jinan, Mr Bo's treatment reflects the fact that he, or his supporters, still have some leverage over the politburo's standing committee, the seven-man body that runs China. It has been cautious in how it has handled such a potentially explosive occasion. The newly anointed leader, Xi Jinping, is treading a fine balance between keeping faith with both his anti-corruption campaign, and the class he comes from. Both he and Mr Bo belong to the party's new generation of princelings \u2013 children of the party's founding fathers. The billionaire Mr Xu, who the prosecution claims funnelled millions of dollars in bribes to Mr Bo and his family, served other political patrons, such as the former prime minister Wen Jiabao. The whole country operates on guanxi, a network of friends in high places without whom nothing gets done. Although guanxi at this level is paid for in French villas, rather than Burberrys, the principle is the same. Mr Xi's campaign can only go so far, and so, one assumes, can Mr Bo's fall from grace.", "tags": ["Bo Xilai", "China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China: Bo Xilai's measured fall from grace | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-11-03T21:54:37Z", "country": "china", "content": "A Faustian pact exists between the leadership of China and its people. It goes like this: we see to it that there is food in your bellies and that your lives improve from year to year. In return, you leave the governing to us.There is little contradiction in the eyes of the Chinese Communist party between the current crackdown on journalists, lawyers and human rights activists, and a heavily advertised central committee meeting next Saturday in which the ground rules for economic reforms could be discussed. In the former, \"western forces hostile to China and within the country are still constantly infiltrating the ideological sphere\", according to Document No 9, issued by the central committee in April. In the latter, ideas as western as government transparency, attracting private investment into utilities and incentives to reward the commercial development of land could be discussed. Going under another number \u2013 Plan 383 \u2013 it's a product of the same machine. For any survivor of the Long March, much of\u00a0what happens now \u2013 in his name \u2013 must be\u00a0anathema.No one can deny that President Xi Jinping is in control. The presence in jail of Bo Xilai and countless other disgraced party officials, some linked to past leaders and rival factions, attests to that. But neither can Mr Xi's credentials as a bold reformer yet be discounted as hype. He himself has set expectations running high of what to expect next weekend when the third plenum of the 18th central committee meets. He told Barack Obama that the coming session would be the most important for China since the one Deng Xiaoping presided over in 1978, which heralded the opening up of the Chinese economy. It will contain, he has promised, not only a \"master plan\" but a \"profound revolution\". The sort of things to look for are: broader access to, and fairer allocation of, capital; banks with more private-sector participation, and the ability to set their own interest rates; state-owned enterprises that are more commercial and accountable; and liberalised energy prices.The bigger question which lies behind each of these measures is how far Mr Xi is prepared as party leader to curtail the party's own grip on power, through state-owned banks, local government and companies controlled by the government, to stimulate this reform. For both sides of China's grand bargain are under attack. The party's ability to deliver growth is being challenged as never before. And the people, half of whom live in cities, are not as ready as they were to keep their heads down. They have questions to ask of top party cadres who send their children to be educated abroad. The hourly joust on Weibo, the Chinese version of Twitter, between user and censor is just one sign of the ferment beneath the surface.Without changing the system, Mr Xi cannot guarantee the economic growth he needs to meet the growing needs of this vast industrial society. And yet each of these reforms could erode the stability that underpins one-party rule. Delay is no longer an option. China's output expanded transformatively from 2002 to 2012, but it can no longer rely on giant public works. Even though it is projected to rise by 6.5% a year, the economy can no longer grow its way out of danger. Rising labour costs at home and weaker overseas consumer demand for the workshop of the world both point in the same direction. And yet going down that path could have political consequences.The rest of the world will have to wait a long time before the CPC willingly abandons its monopoly on power. But nothing stops experiments in intra-party democracy \u2013 in local elections, in making local government more transparent and accountable, or in giving more influence to the eight other democratic parties, which are minute, but still allowed to function. It's a balancing act. Mr Xi is no Mikhail Gorbachev. Indeed, the former Soviet leader is regarded by the Chinese as an object lesson in what not to do. But the opportunity for Mr Xi to make his mark is there to be seized. How he does so will determine the future of the world's fastest-rising power.", "tags": ["China", "Xi Jinping", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China: the numbers game | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-11-03T21:54:37Z", "country": "china", "content": "A Faustian pact exists between the leadership of China and its people. It goes like this: we see to it that there is food in your bellies and that your lives improve from year to year. In return, you leave the governing to us.There is little contradiction in the eyes of the Chinese Communist party between the current crackdown on journalists, lawyers and human rights activists, and a heavily advertised central committee meeting next Saturday in which the ground rules for economic reforms could be discussed. In the former, \"western forces hostile to China and within the country are still constantly infiltrating the ideological sphere\", according to Document No 9, issued by the central committee in April. In the latter, ideas as western as government transparency, attracting private investment into utilities and incentives to reward the commercial development of land could be discussed. Going under another number \u2013 Plan 383 \u2013 it's a product of the same machine. For any survivor of the Long March, much of\u00a0what happens now \u2013 in his name \u2013 must be\u00a0anathema.No one can deny that President Xi Jinping is in control. The presence in jail of Bo Xilai and countless other disgraced party officials, some linked to past leaders and rival factions, attests to that. But neither can Mr Xi's credentials as a bold reformer yet be discounted as hype. He himself has set expectations running high of what to expect next weekend when the third plenum of the 18th central committee meets. He told Barack Obama that the coming session would be the most important for China since the one Deng Xiaoping presided over in 1978, which heralded the opening up of the Chinese economy. It will contain, he has promised, not only a \"master plan\" but a \"profound revolution\". The sort of things to look for are: broader access to, and fairer allocation of, capital; banks with more private-sector participation, and the ability to set their own interest rates; state-owned enterprises that are more commercial and accountable; and liberalised energy prices.The bigger question which lies behind each of these measures is how far Mr Xi is prepared as party leader to curtail the party's own grip on power, through state-owned banks, local government and companies controlled by the government, to stimulate this reform. For both sides of China's grand bargain are under attack. The party's ability to deliver growth is being challenged as never before. And the people, half of whom live in cities, are not as ready as they were to keep their heads down. They have questions to ask of top party cadres who send their children to be educated abroad. The hourly joust on Weibo, the Chinese version of Twitter, between user and censor is just one sign of the ferment beneath the surface.Without changing the system, Mr Xi cannot guarantee the economic growth he needs to meet the growing needs of this vast industrial society. And yet each of these reforms could erode the stability that underpins one-party rule. Delay is no longer an option. China's output expanded transformatively from 2002 to 2012, but it can no longer rely on giant public works. Even though it is projected to rise by 6.5% a year, the economy can no longer grow its way out of danger. Rising labour costs at home and weaker overseas consumer demand for the workshop of the world both point in the same direction. And yet going down that path could have political consequences.The rest of the world will have to wait a long time before the CPC willingly abandons its monopoly on power. But nothing stops experiments in intra-party democracy \u2013 in local elections, in making local government more transparent and accountable, or in giving more influence to the eight other democratic parties, which are minute, but still allowed to function. It's a balancing act. Mr Xi is no Mikhail Gorbachev. Indeed, the former Soviet leader is regarded by the Chinese as an object lesson in what not to do. But the opportunity for Mr Xi to make his mark is there to be seized. How he does so will determine the future of the world's fastest-rising power.", "tags": ["China", "Xi Jinping", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China: the numbers game | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-10-21T20:00:02Z", "country": "china", "content": "After following the developments between Unite and Ineos (Grangemouth oil refinery shuts as owners refuse to back down, 16 October), I am affronted to learn that Ineos appears to have paid hardly any tax in the UK since 2008 (Glasgow Herald, 21 October). Ineos has been making savings of \u00a3100m a year since moving its office from the UK to Switzerland in 2010. The multinational also now operates in five known tax havens. Why are we selling off our key industries to foreign companies who are exploiting this position to reinvest profits back home? This is the free-market ideology gone mad and once again the British taxpayer will be footing the bill.Louise BickertonGlasgow\u2022 Grangemouth is half owned by Petro China, part of the Chinese state petroleum company. Is this what George Osborne meant by Chinese investment on his recent trade tour?Chris JeffriesStockport, Cheshire ", "tags": ["Unite", "Trade unions", "Politics", "Oil", "China"], "title": "Letters: Ineos, tax and China"},{"date": "2013-11-03T21:54:37Z", "country": "china", "content": "A Faustian pact exists between the leadership of China and its people. It goes like this: we see to it that there is food in your bellies and that your lives improve from year to year. In return, you leave the governing to us.There is little contradiction in the eyes of the Chinese Communist party between the current crackdown on journalists, lawyers and human rights activists, and a heavily advertised central committee meeting next Saturday in which the ground rules for economic reforms could be discussed. In the former, \"western forces hostile to China and within the country are still constantly infiltrating the ideological sphere\", according to Document No 9, issued by the central committee in April. In the latter, ideas as western as government transparency, attracting private investment into utilities and incentives to reward the commercial development of land could be discussed. Going under another number \u2013 Plan 383 \u2013 it's a product of the same machine. For any survivor of the Long March, much of\u00a0what happens now \u2013 in his name \u2013 must be\u00a0anathema.No one can deny that President Xi Jinping is in control. The presence in jail of Bo Xilai and countless other disgraced party officials, some linked to past leaders and rival factions, attests to that. But neither can Mr Xi's credentials as a bold reformer yet be discounted as hype. He himself has set expectations running high of what to expect next weekend when the third plenum of the 18th central committee meets. He told Barack Obama that the coming session would be the most important for China since the one Deng Xiaoping presided over in 1978, which heralded the opening up of the Chinese economy. It will contain, he has promised, not only a \"master plan\" but a \"profound revolution\". The sort of things to look for are: broader access to, and fairer allocation of, capital; banks with more private-sector participation, and the ability to set their own interest rates; state-owned enterprises that are more commercial and accountable; and liberalised energy prices.The bigger question which lies behind each of these measures is how far Mr Xi is prepared as party leader to curtail the party's own grip on power, through state-owned banks, local government and companies controlled by the government, to stimulate this reform. For both sides of China's grand bargain are under attack. The party's ability to deliver growth is being challenged as never before. And the people, half of whom live in cities, are not as ready as they were to keep their heads down. They have questions to ask of top party cadres who send their children to be educated abroad. The hourly joust on Weibo, the Chinese version of Twitter, between user and censor is just one sign of the ferment beneath the surface.Without changing the system, Mr Xi cannot guarantee the economic growth he needs to meet the growing needs of this vast industrial society. And yet each of these reforms could erode the stability that underpins one-party rule. Delay is no longer an option. China's output expanded transformatively from 2002 to 2012, but it can no longer rely on giant public works. Even though it is projected to rise by 6.5% a year, the economy can no longer grow its way out of danger. Rising labour costs at home and weaker overseas consumer demand for the workshop of the world both point in the same direction. And yet going down that path could have political consequences.The rest of the world will have to wait a long time before the CPC willingly abandons its monopoly on power. But nothing stops experiments in intra-party democracy \u2013 in local elections, in making local government more transparent and accountable, or in giving more influence to the eight other democratic parties, which are minute, but still allowed to function. It's a balancing act. Mr Xi is no Mikhail Gorbachev. Indeed, the former Soviet leader is regarded by the Chinese as an object lesson in what not to do. But the opportunity for Mr Xi to make his mark is there to be seized. How he does so will determine the future of the world's fastest-rising power.", "tags": ["China", "Xi Jinping", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China: the numbers game | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-10-21T20:00:02Z", "country": "china", "content": "After following the developments between Unite and Ineos (Grangemouth oil refinery shuts as owners refuse to back down, 16 October), I am affronted to learn that Ineos appears to have paid hardly any tax in the UK since 2008 (Glasgow Herald, 21 October). Ineos has been making savings of \u00a3100m a year since moving its office from the UK to Switzerland in 2010. The multinational also now operates in five known tax havens. Why are we selling off our key industries to foreign companies who are exploiting this position to reinvest profits back home? This is the free-market ideology gone mad and once again the British taxpayer will be footing the bill.Louise BickertonGlasgow\u2022 Grangemouth is half owned by Petro China, part of the Chinese state petroleum company. Is this what George Osborne meant by Chinese investment on his recent trade tour?Chris JeffriesStockport, Cheshire ", "tags": ["Unite", "Trade unions", "Politics", "Oil", "China"], "title": "Letters: Ineos, tax and China"},{"date": "2013-10-18T20:00:11Z", "country": "china", "content": "You quote a leader from the GMB (Nuclear expert raises fears over Chinese role in atomic plants, 18 October) as suggesting it is almost Orwellian to allow Chinese investment into our highly sensitive energy infrastructure, given that China has been linked to corporate hacking. The point is that the British government is guilty of Orwellian doublespeak. On one hand, we're told the Chinese are a threat to British interests with their industrial-scale hacking, yet George Osborne claims that paving the way for the Chinese to play a dominant role in the UK nuclear industry is a triumph for his diplomacy.The fact is that, post-privatisation, the energy sector was starved of investment for years. Our infrastructure is creaking and the government has to go cap-in-hand to the Chinese begging for money. Far from being a triumph of Osborne's diplomatic skills, British weakness has been laid bare. We are now utterly dependent on foreign state-owned companies to keep the lights on. Chinese companies already own large chunks of our gas, electricity and water infrastructure. The government's disastrous energy policy means it had an almost nonexistent negotiating hand in China. The GMB is pragmatic and recognises that the investment is desperately needed. But we see no sign of Osborne securing any guaranteed benefits for UK manufacturing. Meanwhile, the Chinese manufacturing supply chain and nuclear industries will benefit from having a controlling interest in the UK nuclear industry.Gary SmithNational secretary, GMB commercial services section\u2022 The UK chancellor has just signed up to a deal where EDF and the Chinese get \u00a314bn just for the construction of Hinkley C. The UK government has also promised profits to the French and Chinese with a guaranteed price which is twice the existing cost, beginning in 2025 for 35 more years, after which they walk away from the UK with their profits and leave all the waste behind for thousands of years. By 2025, electricity costs in the UK will already be lower than today's costs, as wind, wave, solar and tidal power become established and their initial development costs recovered (see Germany's success).For nuclear, the taxpayers will also pay for the waste and decommissioning \u2013 \u00a3100bn and counting just for legacy waste. Taxpayers will also pay all nuclear insurance costs, from construction to onsite spent fuel storage, for thousands of years. It's not rocket science; it's not even secondary school maths. We're being conned by false threats of the lights going out and outright lies that nuclear is carbon free. And let's not even start on the health costs \u2013 yet another example of international government cover ups which make Nineteen Eighty-Four read like a fairy tale.Jo BrownBurnham-on-Sea, Somerset\u2022 The Royal Academy of Engineering study, GB Electricity Capacity Margin, highlights the need to act now to avoid energy shortfalls. This report looks at a worst-case scenario where everything that could go wrong does go wrong all at the same time. The report highlights the need to facilitate a rapid move to deployment of new large-scale electricity generation to avoid supply shortfalls over the next 10 years, and also to enable the transition to a low-carbon energy system.Capacity is tightening and there is a need to progress market reform to the point where capacity gets built. However, the consequences of unfortunate combinations of events (such as cold winter combined with plant failures beyond normal levels) would not be national blackouts. There are tools already in place to manage such situations, including voltage reductions, commercial contracts for short-term reductions of demand by industry, and in extremis, controlled and localised power cuts for short periods.The Institution of Engineering and Technology has long argued for a balanced energy portfolio including nuclear and has drawn attention to the risks of uncertainty created by the lack of long-term strategic planning which is causing potential generators to hold off investing in new plant until the position on government support is clearer.Dr Simon HarrisonInstitution of Engineering and Technology\u2022 Osborne says that using Chinese money to build a new nuclear power station will free up money for us to build more hospitals and schools. Does that infer that China is giving us the money?Brian MossTamworth, Staffordshire", "tags": ["Energy industry", "Nuclear power", "Energy", "Environment", "Nuclear waste", "Waste", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "Business", "George Osborne", "Renewable energy"], "title": "Letters: Energy sector's China syndrome"},{"date": "2013-11-03T21:54:37Z", "country": "china", "content": "A Faustian pact exists between the leadership of China and its people. It goes like this: we see to it that there is food in your bellies and that your lives improve from year to year. In return, you leave the governing to us.There is little contradiction in the eyes of the Chinese Communist party between the current crackdown on journalists, lawyers and human rights activists, and a heavily advertised central committee meeting next Saturday in which the ground rules for economic reforms could be discussed. In the former, \"western forces hostile to China and within the country are still constantly infiltrating the ideological sphere\", according to Document No 9, issued by the central committee in April. In the latter, ideas as western as government transparency, attracting private investment into utilities and incentives to reward the commercial development of land could be discussed. Going under another number \u2013 Plan 383 \u2013 it's a product of the same machine. For any survivor of the Long March, much of\u00a0what happens now \u2013 in his name \u2013 must be\u00a0anathema.No one can deny that President Xi Jinping is in control. The presence in jail of Bo Xilai and countless other disgraced party officials, some linked to past leaders and rival factions, attests to that. But neither can Mr Xi's credentials as a bold reformer yet be discounted as hype. He himself has set expectations running high of what to expect next weekend when the third plenum of the 18th central committee meets. He told Barack Obama that the coming session would be the most important for China since the one Deng Xiaoping presided over in 1978, which heralded the opening up of the Chinese economy. It will contain, he has promised, not only a \"master plan\" but a \"profound revolution\". The sort of things to look for are: broader access to, and fairer allocation of, capital; banks with more private-sector participation, and the ability to set their own interest rates; state-owned enterprises that are more commercial and accountable; and liberalised energy prices.The bigger question which lies behind each of these measures is how far Mr Xi is prepared as party leader to curtail the party's own grip on power, through state-owned banks, local government and companies controlled by the government, to stimulate this reform. For both sides of China's grand bargain are under attack. The party's ability to deliver growth is being challenged as never before. And the people, half of whom live in cities, are not as ready as they were to keep their heads down. They have questions to ask of top party cadres who send their children to be educated abroad. The hourly joust on Weibo, the Chinese version of Twitter, between user and censor is just one sign of the ferment beneath the surface.Without changing the system, Mr Xi cannot guarantee the economic growth he needs to meet the growing needs of this vast industrial society. And yet each of these reforms could erode the stability that underpins one-party rule. Delay is no longer an option. China's output expanded transformatively from 2002 to 2012, but it can no longer rely on giant public works. Even though it is projected to rise by 6.5% a year, the economy can no longer grow its way out of danger. Rising labour costs at home and weaker overseas consumer demand for the workshop of the world both point in the same direction. And yet going down that path could have political consequences.The rest of the world will have to wait a long time before the CPC willingly abandons its monopoly on power. But nothing stops experiments in intra-party democracy \u2013 in local elections, in making local government more transparent and accountable, or in giving more influence to the eight other democratic parties, which are minute, but still allowed to function. It's a balancing act. Mr Xi is no Mikhail Gorbachev. Indeed, the former Soviet leader is regarded by the Chinese as an object lesson in what not to do. But the opportunity for Mr Xi to make his mark is there to be seized. How he does so will determine the future of the world's fastest-rising power.", "tags": ["China", "Xi Jinping", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China: the numbers game | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-10-21T20:00:02Z", "country": "china", "content": "After following the developments between Unite and Ineos (Grangemouth oil refinery shuts as owners refuse to back down, 16 October), I am affronted to learn that Ineos appears to have paid hardly any tax in the UK since 2008 (Glasgow Herald, 21 October). Ineos has been making savings of \u00a3100m a year since moving its office from the UK to Switzerland in 2010. The multinational also now operates in five known tax havens. Why are we selling off our key industries to foreign companies who are exploiting this position to reinvest profits back home? This is the free-market ideology gone mad and once again the British taxpayer will be footing the bill.Louise BickertonGlasgow\u2022 Grangemouth is half owned by Petro China, part of the Chinese state petroleum company. Is this what George Osborne meant by Chinese investment on his recent trade tour?Chris JeffriesStockport, Cheshire ", "tags": ["Unite", "Trade unions", "Politics", "Oil", "China"], "title": "Letters: Ineos, tax and China"},{"date": "2013-10-18T20:00:11Z", "country": "china", "content": "You quote a leader from the GMB (Nuclear expert raises fears over Chinese role in atomic plants, 18 October) as suggesting it is almost Orwellian to allow Chinese investment into our highly sensitive energy infrastructure, given that China has been linked to corporate hacking. The point is that the British government is guilty of Orwellian doublespeak. On one hand, we're told the Chinese are a threat to British interests with their industrial-scale hacking, yet George Osborne claims that paving the way for the Chinese to play a dominant role in the UK nuclear industry is a triumph for his diplomacy.The fact is that, post-privatisation, the energy sector was starved of investment for years. Our infrastructure is creaking and the government has to go cap-in-hand to the Chinese begging for money. Far from being a triumph of Osborne's diplomatic skills, British weakness has been laid bare. We are now utterly dependent on foreign state-owned companies to keep the lights on. Chinese companies already own large chunks of our gas, electricity and water infrastructure. The government's disastrous energy policy means it had an almost nonexistent negotiating hand in China. The GMB is pragmatic and recognises that the investment is desperately needed. But we see no sign of Osborne securing any guaranteed benefits for UK manufacturing. Meanwhile, the Chinese manufacturing supply chain and nuclear industries will benefit from having a controlling interest in the UK nuclear industry.Gary SmithNational secretary, GMB commercial services section\u2022 The UK chancellor has just signed up to a deal where EDF and the Chinese get \u00a314bn just for the construction of Hinkley C. The UK government has also promised profits to the French and Chinese with a guaranteed price which is twice the existing cost, beginning in 2025 for 35 more years, after which they walk away from the UK with their profits and leave all the waste behind for thousands of years. By 2025, electricity costs in the UK will already be lower than today's costs, as wind, wave, solar and tidal power become established and their initial development costs recovered (see Germany's success).For nuclear, the taxpayers will also pay for the waste and decommissioning \u2013 \u00a3100bn and counting just for legacy waste. Taxpayers will also pay all nuclear insurance costs, from construction to onsite spent fuel storage, for thousands of years. It's not rocket science; it's not even secondary school maths. We're being conned by false threats of the lights going out and outright lies that nuclear is carbon free. And let's not even start on the health costs \u2013 yet another example of international government cover ups which make Nineteen Eighty-Four read like a fairy tale.Jo BrownBurnham-on-Sea, Somerset\u2022 The Royal Academy of Engineering study, GB Electricity Capacity Margin, highlights the need to act now to avoid energy shortfalls. This report looks at a worst-case scenario where everything that could go wrong does go wrong all at the same time. The report highlights the need to facilitate a rapid move to deployment of new large-scale electricity generation to avoid supply shortfalls over the next 10 years, and also to enable the transition to a low-carbon energy system.Capacity is tightening and there is a need to progress market reform to the point where capacity gets built. However, the consequences of unfortunate combinations of events (such as cold winter combined with plant failures beyond normal levels) would not be national blackouts. There are tools already in place to manage such situations, including voltage reductions, commercial contracts for short-term reductions of demand by industry, and in extremis, controlled and localised power cuts for short periods.The Institution of Engineering and Technology has long argued for a balanced energy portfolio including nuclear and has drawn attention to the risks of uncertainty created by the lack of long-term strategic planning which is causing potential generators to hold off investing in new plant until the position on government support is clearer.Dr Simon HarrisonInstitution of Engineering and Technology\u2022 Osborne says that using Chinese money to build a new nuclear power station will free up money for us to build more hospitals and schools. Does that infer that China is giving us the money?Brian MossTamworth, Staffordshire", "tags": ["Energy industry", "Nuclear power", "Energy", "Environment", "Nuclear waste", "Waste", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "Business", "George Osborne", "Renewable energy"], "title": "Letters: Energy sector's China syndrome"},{"date": "2013-11-28T18:56:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has sent warplanes into disputed airspace over the East China Sea after Japanese and South Korean military aircraft flew through the area, the Chinese state news agency reported.China's air force spokesman Shen Jinke says several fighter jets and an early warning aircraft were sent on normal air patrols in the zone on Thursday. He was quoted by the state news agency Xinhua.Shen described the flights as \"a defensive measure and in line with international common practices\". He said China's air force would remain on high alert and will take measures to protect the country's airspace.Japanese and South Korean aircraft flew through the airspace without informing China, officials said on Thursday, challenging a new Chinese air defence zone that has increased regional tensions and sparked concerns of an unintended clash.China rejected South Korea's demand for the repeal of the zone but appeared to soften its demand that commercial aircraft tell its military authorities of any plans to pass through the area. Japan's two biggest airlines have already begun defying that order.\"This has already increased the risk [that the situation] will escalate from confrontation to conflict,\" said Shi Yinhong, an expert on international relations at Renmin University in Beijing.\"I think China will take flexible measures towards any aeroplane that flies over the zone, and that will still be compatible with China's declarations,\" he added.\"America is not our direct enemy, and South Korea is our friend. But Japanese armed aircraft would be a different story. If they dare to come into China's declared\u00a0zone, the Chinese air force will take action.\"China announced the zone at the weekend, prompting criticism from Japan and the US. Some experts said it was aimed not only at chipping away at Tokyo's control of disputed islands known as the Senkaku in Japan and the Diaoyu in China, but also at challenging US dominance in the region. On Tuesday the US flew two unarmed B-52 bombers over the islands without informing Beijing.\"The East China Sea air defence identification zone is not aimed at normal international flights,\" said a Chinese foreign ministry spokesman, Qin Gang. \"We hope that relevant countries' airlines can proactively co-operate so there is more order and safety for flights.\"Asked if China was worried it would be seen as a \"paper tiger\" in light of its response to the US flights, Qin advised reporters to check Mao Zedong's use of the phrase. Mao used the term as a metaphor for \"US imperialism\" in 1956 \u2013 seemingly powerful, but easily crippled by adversity, he said. He wanted to stress that the Chinese government had adequate resolution and ability to defend its national sovereign rights and to control the zone.\"This was clearly very calculated, but that doesn't mean it wasn't a miscalculation,\" said Scott Harold, an expert on east Asian security at the Rand Corporation. China probably thought that declaring the zone was no different from its past strategic actions in the region \u2013 small, incremental steps that might annoy neighbouring countries but wouldn't cause them to react. Instead, it \"inflamed an underlying suspicion that everyone had: that China is going to work in grey zones, push the envelope and expand its territorial sovereignty claims with every opportunity it gets\".China essentially has two options, Harold said: it \"can do nothing, and confirm to the outside world that its rise is as risky as some people thought. Or on the other hand, it can do something to reassure the region and the world that it is not going to be a threat.\" For the Chinese leadership, the first could jeopardise a bevy of important diplomatic relationships; the second would entail a major loss of face.\"I don't know if there's an easy out here for China,\" Harold added. \"The easy thing would be if they'd never done it in the first place.\"Japan's top government spokesperson, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga, said on Thursday that the country had sent patrol planes into the airspace without informing China, and that China did not intercept them.\"They are carrying out surveillance activity as before in the East China Sea, including the zone,\" he told a news conference, according to Reuters. \"We are not going to change this (activity) out of consideration to China.\"", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "South Korea", "Japan"], "title": "China sends warplanes into disputed airspace over East China Sea"},{"date": "2013-11-03T21:54:37Z", "country": "china", "content": "A Faustian pact exists between the leadership of China and its people. It goes like this: we see to it that there is food in your bellies and that your lives improve from year to year. In return, you leave the governing to us.There is little contradiction in the eyes of the Chinese Communist party between the current crackdown on journalists, lawyers and human rights activists, and a heavily advertised central committee meeting next Saturday in which the ground rules for economic reforms could be discussed. In the former, \"western forces hostile to China and within the country are still constantly infiltrating the ideological sphere\", according to Document No 9, issued by the central committee in April. In the latter, ideas as western as government transparency, attracting private investment into utilities and incentives to reward the commercial development of land could be discussed. Going under another number \u2013 Plan 383 \u2013 it's a product of the same machine. For any survivor of the Long March, much of\u00a0what happens now \u2013 in his name \u2013 must be\u00a0anathema.No one can deny that President Xi Jinping is in control. The presence in jail of Bo Xilai and countless other disgraced party officials, some linked to past leaders and rival factions, attests to that. But neither can Mr Xi's credentials as a bold reformer yet be discounted as hype. He himself has set expectations running high of what to expect next weekend when the third plenum of the 18th central committee meets. He told Barack Obama that the coming session would be the most important for China since the one Deng Xiaoping presided over in 1978, which heralded the opening up of the Chinese economy. It will contain, he has promised, not only a \"master plan\" but a \"profound revolution\". The sort of things to look for are: broader access to, and fairer allocation of, capital; banks with more private-sector participation, and the ability to set their own interest rates; state-owned enterprises that are more commercial and accountable; and liberalised energy prices.The bigger question which lies behind each of these measures is how far Mr Xi is prepared as party leader to curtail the party's own grip on power, through state-owned banks, local government and companies controlled by the government, to stimulate this reform. For both sides of China's grand bargain are under attack. The party's ability to deliver growth is being challenged as never before. And the people, half of whom live in cities, are not as ready as they were to keep their heads down. They have questions to ask of top party cadres who send their children to be educated abroad. The hourly joust on Weibo, the Chinese version of Twitter, between user and censor is just one sign of the ferment beneath the surface.Without changing the system, Mr Xi cannot guarantee the economic growth he needs to meet the growing needs of this vast industrial society. And yet each of these reforms could erode the stability that underpins one-party rule. Delay is no longer an option. China's output expanded transformatively from 2002 to 2012, but it can no longer rely on giant public works. Even though it is projected to rise by 6.5% a year, the economy can no longer grow its way out of danger. Rising labour costs at home and weaker overseas consumer demand for the workshop of the world both point in the same direction. And yet going down that path could have political consequences.The rest of the world will have to wait a long time before the CPC willingly abandons its monopoly on power. But nothing stops experiments in intra-party democracy \u2013 in local elections, in making local government more transparent and accountable, or in giving more influence to the eight other democratic parties, which are minute, but still allowed to function. It's a balancing act. Mr Xi is no Mikhail Gorbachev. Indeed, the former Soviet leader is regarded by the Chinese as an object lesson in what not to do. But the opportunity for Mr Xi to make his mark is there to be seized. How he does so will determine the future of the world's fastest-rising power.", "tags": ["China", "Xi Jinping", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China: the numbers game | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-10-21T20:00:02Z", "country": "china", "content": "After following the developments between Unite and Ineos (Grangemouth oil refinery shuts as owners refuse to back down, 16 October), I am affronted to learn that Ineos appears to have paid hardly any tax in the UK since 2008 (Glasgow Herald, 21 October). Ineos has been making savings of \u00a3100m a year since moving its office from the UK to Switzerland in 2010. The multinational also now operates in five known tax havens. Why are we selling off our key industries to foreign companies who are exploiting this position to reinvest profits back home? This is the free-market ideology gone mad and once again the British taxpayer will be footing the bill.Louise BickertonGlasgow\u2022 Grangemouth is half owned by Petro China, part of the Chinese state petroleum company. Is this what George Osborne meant by Chinese investment on his recent trade tour?Chris JeffriesStockport, Cheshire ", "tags": ["Unite", "Trade unions", "Politics", "Oil", "China"], "title": "Letters: Ineos, tax and China"},{"date": "2013-10-18T20:00:11Z", "country": "china", "content": "You quote a leader from the GMB (Nuclear expert raises fears over Chinese role in atomic plants, 18 October) as suggesting it is almost Orwellian to allow Chinese investment into our highly sensitive energy infrastructure, given that China has been linked to corporate hacking. The point is that the British government is guilty of Orwellian doublespeak. On one hand, we're told the Chinese are a threat to British interests with their industrial-scale hacking, yet George Osborne claims that paving the way for the Chinese to play a dominant role in the UK nuclear industry is a triumph for his diplomacy.The fact is that, post-privatisation, the energy sector was starved of investment for years. Our infrastructure is creaking and the government has to go cap-in-hand to the Chinese begging for money. Far from being a triumph of Osborne's diplomatic skills, British weakness has been laid bare. We are now utterly dependent on foreign state-owned companies to keep the lights on. Chinese companies already own large chunks of our gas, electricity and water infrastructure. The government's disastrous energy policy means it had an almost nonexistent negotiating hand in China. The GMB is pragmatic and recognises that the investment is desperately needed. But we see no sign of Osborne securing any guaranteed benefits for UK manufacturing. Meanwhile, the Chinese manufacturing supply chain and nuclear industries will benefit from having a controlling interest in the UK nuclear industry.Gary SmithNational secretary, GMB commercial services section\u2022 The UK chancellor has just signed up to a deal where EDF and the Chinese get \u00a314bn just for the construction of Hinkley C. The UK government has also promised profits to the French and Chinese with a guaranteed price which is twice the existing cost, beginning in 2025 for 35 more years, after which they walk away from the UK with their profits and leave all the waste behind for thousands of years. By 2025, electricity costs in the UK will already be lower than today's costs, as wind, wave, solar and tidal power become established and their initial development costs recovered (see Germany's success).For nuclear, the taxpayers will also pay for the waste and decommissioning \u2013 \u00a3100bn and counting just for legacy waste. Taxpayers will also pay all nuclear insurance costs, from construction to onsite spent fuel storage, for thousands of years. It's not rocket science; it's not even secondary school maths. We're being conned by false threats of the lights going out and outright lies that nuclear is carbon free. And let's not even start on the health costs \u2013 yet another example of international government cover ups which make Nineteen Eighty-Four read like a fairy tale.Jo BrownBurnham-on-Sea, Somerset\u2022 The Royal Academy of Engineering study, GB Electricity Capacity Margin, highlights the need to act now to avoid energy shortfalls. This report looks at a worst-case scenario where everything that could go wrong does go wrong all at the same time. The report highlights the need to facilitate a rapid move to deployment of new large-scale electricity generation to avoid supply shortfalls over the next 10 years, and also to enable the transition to a low-carbon energy system.Capacity is tightening and there is a need to progress market reform to the point where capacity gets built. However, the consequences of unfortunate combinations of events (such as cold winter combined with plant failures beyond normal levels) would not be national blackouts. There are tools already in place to manage such situations, including voltage reductions, commercial contracts for short-term reductions of demand by industry, and in extremis, controlled and localised power cuts for short periods.The Institution of Engineering and Technology has long argued for a balanced energy portfolio including nuclear and has drawn attention to the risks of uncertainty created by the lack of long-term strategic planning which is causing potential generators to hold off investing in new plant until the position on government support is clearer.Dr Simon HarrisonInstitution of Engineering and Technology\u2022 Osborne says that using Chinese money to build a new nuclear power station will free up money for us to build more hospitals and schools. Does that infer that China is giving us the money?Brian MossTamworth, Staffordshire", "tags": ["Energy industry", "Nuclear power", "Energy", "Environment", "Nuclear waste", "Waste", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "Business", "George Osborne", "Renewable energy"], "title": "Letters: Energy sector's China syndrome"},{"date": "2013-11-28T18:56:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has sent warplanes into disputed airspace over the East China Sea after Japanese and South Korean military aircraft flew through the area, the Chinese state news agency reported.China's air force spokesman Shen Jinke says several fighter jets and an early warning aircraft were sent on normal air patrols in the zone on Thursday. He was quoted by the state news agency Xinhua.Shen described the flights as \"a defensive measure and in line with international common practices\". He said China's air force would remain on high alert and will take measures to protect the country's airspace.Japanese and South Korean aircraft flew through the airspace without informing China, officials said on Thursday, challenging a new Chinese air defence zone that has increased regional tensions and sparked concerns of an unintended clash.China rejected South Korea's demand for the repeal of the zone but appeared to soften its demand that commercial aircraft tell its military authorities of any plans to pass through the area. Japan's two biggest airlines have already begun defying that order.\"This has already increased the risk [that the situation] will escalate from confrontation to conflict,\" said Shi Yinhong, an expert on international relations at Renmin University in Beijing.\"I think China will take flexible measures towards any aeroplane that flies over the zone, and that will still be compatible with China's declarations,\" he added.\"America is not our direct enemy, and South Korea is our friend. But Japanese armed aircraft would be a different story. If they dare to come into China's declared\u00a0zone, the Chinese air force will take action.\"China announced the zone at the weekend, prompting criticism from Japan and the US. Some experts said it was aimed not only at chipping away at Tokyo's control of disputed islands known as the Senkaku in Japan and the Diaoyu in China, but also at challenging US dominance in the region. On Tuesday the US flew two unarmed B-52 bombers over the islands without informing Beijing.\"The East China Sea air defence identification zone is not aimed at normal international flights,\" said a Chinese foreign ministry spokesman, Qin Gang. \"We hope that relevant countries' airlines can proactively co-operate so there is more order and safety for flights.\"Asked if China was worried it would be seen as a \"paper tiger\" in light of its response to the US flights, Qin advised reporters to check Mao Zedong's use of the phrase. Mao used the term as a metaphor for \"US imperialism\" in 1956 \u2013 seemingly powerful, but easily crippled by adversity, he said. He wanted to stress that the Chinese government had adequate resolution and ability to defend its national sovereign rights and to control the zone.\"This was clearly very calculated, but that doesn't mean it wasn't a miscalculation,\" said Scott Harold, an expert on east Asian security at the Rand Corporation. China probably thought that declaring the zone was no different from its past strategic actions in the region \u2013 small, incremental steps that might annoy neighbouring countries but wouldn't cause them to react. Instead, it \"inflamed an underlying suspicion that everyone had: that China is going to work in grey zones, push the envelope and expand its territorial sovereignty claims with every opportunity it gets\".China essentially has two options, Harold said: it \"can do nothing, and confirm to the outside world that its rise is as risky as some people thought. Or on the other hand, it can do something to reassure the region and the world that it is not going to be a threat.\" For the Chinese leadership, the first could jeopardise a bevy of important diplomatic relationships; the second would entail a major loss of face.\"I don't know if there's an easy out here for China,\" Harold added. \"The easy thing would be if they'd never done it in the first place.\"Japan's top government spokesperson, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga, said on Thursday that the country had sent patrol planes into the airspace without informing China, and that China did not intercept them.\"They are carrying out surveillance activity as before in the East China Sea, including the zone,\" he told a news conference, according to Reuters. \"We are not going to change this (activity) out of consideration to China.\"", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "South Korea", "Japan"], "title": "China sends warplanes into disputed airspace over East China Sea"},{"date": "2013-11-27T23:52:39Z", "country": "china", "content": "Is it Europe before the first world war or the second? Analysts disagree, but all see the escalation of military threats between the two industrial giants China and Japan over disputed islands in the East China Sea with growing alarm. The latest crisis was caused by China's decision to extend its \"air defence identification zone\" (ADIZ) over a group of uninhabited islands which Japan calls the Senkakus and China knows as the Diaoyutai. Several overflights later, not least by a pair of US B-52 bombers, and nothing much has changed, except that a hairtrigger that originally was to be measured in hours and governed by the speed of boats, has now become a matter of seconds.Few can say what prompted the latest Chinese move. This is a time when the Chinese leader, Xi Jinping, is attempting to drive major economic reform and the announcement may be a sop to the military, when its voice in the national debate could be weakening. It is hard to avoid the conclusion, though, that the declaration was a way of testing the waters for a reaction \u2013 which they duly got. The state-run China Daily accused Japan and the US of overreacting, saying that if the world's sole superpower needed multiple ADIZs to fend off perceived threats, China should be allowed theirs. Besides, they claimed the measure was not targeted at any particular country.This is not how it is seen in Japan, which has witnessed a growing number of confrontations, or \"incidents\", over islands in which Beijing showed little interest for much of the last decade. For Japan, the dispute over the islands is part of a major naval push to extend China's maritime influence beyond the first island chain of the Pacific. China claims the status quo was changed by Japan's decision to nationalise the islands. What they don't want to admit is that this was done to stop the islands being used by Japanese nationalists on madcap flag waving stunts.The land to which the islands are closest is neither Japan nor China, but Taiwan \u2013 with which Tokyo has few problems. Last year Taiwan showed the way out of these disputes by signing an agreement with Tokyo which sidestepped the issue of sovereignty and divided the fisheries to mutual benefit. This model, first applied in the North Sea, is the only rational way out of these disputes \u2013 although it is not one that Britain is particularly keen on applying to the Falklands. China and Japan agreed in 2008 to co-operate on the joint development of the East China Sea. Further talks have never been pursued and, to date, not even a hotline exists between the two powers to avert another incident in the sea or in the air. It is time for people in China and Japan to turn down the volume of simplistic nationalist rhetoric and to pursue pragmatic dialogue.", "tags": ["Senkaku Islands", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Japan", "China"], "title": "Japan and China: collision course | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-11-03T21:54:37Z", "country": "china", "content": "A Faustian pact exists between the leadership of China and its people. It goes like this: we see to it that there is food in your bellies and that your lives improve from year to year. In return, you leave the governing to us.There is little contradiction in the eyes of the Chinese Communist party between the current crackdown on journalists, lawyers and human rights activists, and a heavily advertised central committee meeting next Saturday in which the ground rules for economic reforms could be discussed. In the former, \"western forces hostile to China and within the country are still constantly infiltrating the ideological sphere\", according to Document No 9, issued by the central committee in April. In the latter, ideas as western as government transparency, attracting private investment into utilities and incentives to reward the commercial development of land could be discussed. Going under another number \u2013 Plan 383 \u2013 it's a product of the same machine. For any survivor of the Long March, much of\u00a0what happens now \u2013 in his name \u2013 must be\u00a0anathema.No one can deny that President Xi Jinping is in control. The presence in jail of Bo Xilai and countless other disgraced party officials, some linked to past leaders and rival factions, attests to that. But neither can Mr Xi's credentials as a bold reformer yet be discounted as hype. He himself has set expectations running high of what to expect next weekend when the third plenum of the 18th central committee meets. He told Barack Obama that the coming session would be the most important for China since the one Deng Xiaoping presided over in 1978, which heralded the opening up of the Chinese economy. It will contain, he has promised, not only a \"master plan\" but a \"profound revolution\". The sort of things to look for are: broader access to, and fairer allocation of, capital; banks with more private-sector participation, and the ability to set their own interest rates; state-owned enterprises that are more commercial and accountable; and liberalised energy prices.The bigger question which lies behind each of these measures is how far Mr Xi is prepared as party leader to curtail the party's own grip on power, through state-owned banks, local government and companies controlled by the government, to stimulate this reform. For both sides of China's grand bargain are under attack. The party's ability to deliver growth is being challenged as never before. And the people, half of whom live in cities, are not as ready as they were to keep their heads down. They have questions to ask of top party cadres who send their children to be educated abroad. The hourly joust on Weibo, the Chinese version of Twitter, between user and censor is just one sign of the ferment beneath the surface.Without changing the system, Mr Xi cannot guarantee the economic growth he needs to meet the growing needs of this vast industrial society. And yet each of these reforms could erode the stability that underpins one-party rule. Delay is no longer an option. China's output expanded transformatively from 2002 to 2012, but it can no longer rely on giant public works. Even though it is projected to rise by 6.5% a year, the economy can no longer grow its way out of danger. Rising labour costs at home and weaker overseas consumer demand for the workshop of the world both point in the same direction. And yet going down that path could have political consequences.The rest of the world will have to wait a long time before the CPC willingly abandons its monopoly on power. But nothing stops experiments in intra-party democracy \u2013 in local elections, in making local government more transparent and accountable, or in giving more influence to the eight other democratic parties, which are minute, but still allowed to function. It's a balancing act. Mr Xi is no Mikhail Gorbachev. Indeed, the former Soviet leader is regarded by the Chinese as an object lesson in what not to do. But the opportunity for Mr Xi to make his mark is there to be seized. How he does so will determine the future of the world's fastest-rising power.", "tags": ["China", "Xi Jinping", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China: the numbers game | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-10-21T20:00:02Z", "country": "china", "content": "After following the developments between Unite and Ineos (Grangemouth oil refinery shuts as owners refuse to back down, 16 October), I am affronted to learn that Ineos appears to have paid hardly any tax in the UK since 2008 (Glasgow Herald, 21 October). Ineos has been making savings of \u00a3100m a year since moving its office from the UK to Switzerland in 2010. The multinational also now operates in five known tax havens. Why are we selling off our key industries to foreign companies who are exploiting this position to reinvest profits back home? This is the free-market ideology gone mad and once again the British taxpayer will be footing the bill.Louise BickertonGlasgow\u2022 Grangemouth is half owned by Petro China, part of the Chinese state petroleum company. Is this what George Osborne meant by Chinese investment on his recent trade tour?Chris JeffriesStockport, Cheshire ", "tags": ["Unite", "Trade unions", "Politics", "Oil", "China"], "title": "Letters: Ineos, tax and China"},{"date": "2013-10-18T20:00:11Z", "country": "china", "content": "You quote a leader from the GMB (Nuclear expert raises fears over Chinese role in atomic plants, 18 October) as suggesting it is almost Orwellian to allow Chinese investment into our highly sensitive energy infrastructure, given that China has been linked to corporate hacking. The point is that the British government is guilty of Orwellian doublespeak. On one hand, we're told the Chinese are a threat to British interests with their industrial-scale hacking, yet George Osborne claims that paving the way for the Chinese to play a dominant role in the UK nuclear industry is a triumph for his diplomacy.The fact is that, post-privatisation, the energy sector was starved of investment for years. Our infrastructure is creaking and the government has to go cap-in-hand to the Chinese begging for money. Far from being a triumph of Osborne's diplomatic skills, British weakness has been laid bare. We are now utterly dependent on foreign state-owned companies to keep the lights on. Chinese companies already own large chunks of our gas, electricity and water infrastructure. The government's disastrous energy policy means it had an almost nonexistent negotiating hand in China. The GMB is pragmatic and recognises that the investment is desperately needed. But we see no sign of Osborne securing any guaranteed benefits for UK manufacturing. Meanwhile, the Chinese manufacturing supply chain and nuclear industries will benefit from having a controlling interest in the UK nuclear industry.Gary SmithNational secretary, GMB commercial services section\u2022 The UK chancellor has just signed up to a deal where EDF and the Chinese get \u00a314bn just for the construction of Hinkley C. The UK government has also promised profits to the French and Chinese with a guaranteed price which is twice the existing cost, beginning in 2025 for 35 more years, after which they walk away from the UK with their profits and leave all the waste behind for thousands of years. By 2025, electricity costs in the UK will already be lower than today's costs, as wind, wave, solar and tidal power become established and their initial development costs recovered (see Germany's success).For nuclear, the taxpayers will also pay for the waste and decommissioning \u2013 \u00a3100bn and counting just for legacy waste. Taxpayers will also pay all nuclear insurance costs, from construction to onsite spent fuel storage, for thousands of years. It's not rocket science; it's not even secondary school maths. We're being conned by false threats of the lights going out and outright lies that nuclear is carbon free. And let's not even start on the health costs \u2013 yet another example of international government cover ups which make Nineteen Eighty-Four read like a fairy tale.Jo BrownBurnham-on-Sea, Somerset\u2022 The Royal Academy of Engineering study, GB Electricity Capacity Margin, highlights the need to act now to avoid energy shortfalls. This report looks at a worst-case scenario where everything that could go wrong does go wrong all at the same time. The report highlights the need to facilitate a rapid move to deployment of new large-scale electricity generation to avoid supply shortfalls over the next 10 years, and also to enable the transition to a low-carbon energy system.Capacity is tightening and there is a need to progress market reform to the point where capacity gets built. However, the consequences of unfortunate combinations of events (such as cold winter combined with plant failures beyond normal levels) would not be national blackouts. There are tools already in place to manage such situations, including voltage reductions, commercial contracts for short-term reductions of demand by industry, and in extremis, controlled and localised power cuts for short periods.The Institution of Engineering and Technology has long argued for a balanced energy portfolio including nuclear and has drawn attention to the risks of uncertainty created by the lack of long-term strategic planning which is causing potential generators to hold off investing in new plant until the position on government support is clearer.Dr Simon HarrisonInstitution of Engineering and Technology\u2022 Osborne says that using Chinese money to build a new nuclear power station will free up money for us to build more hospitals and schools. Does that infer that China is giving us the money?Brian MossTamworth, Staffordshire", "tags": ["Energy industry", "Nuclear power", "Energy", "Environment", "Nuclear waste", "Waste", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "Business", "George Osborne", "Renewable energy"], "title": "Letters: Energy sector's China syndrome"},{"date": "2013-11-28T18:56:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has sent warplanes into disputed airspace over the East China Sea after Japanese and South Korean military aircraft flew through the area, the Chinese state news agency reported.China's air force spokesman Shen Jinke says several fighter jets and an early warning aircraft were sent on normal air patrols in the zone on Thursday. He was quoted by the state news agency Xinhua.Shen described the flights as \"a defensive measure and in line with international common practices\". He said China's air force would remain on high alert and will take measures to protect the country's airspace.Japanese and South Korean aircraft flew through the airspace without informing China, officials said on Thursday, challenging a new Chinese air defence zone that has increased regional tensions and sparked concerns of an unintended clash.China rejected South Korea's demand for the repeal of the zone but appeared to soften its demand that commercial aircraft tell its military authorities of any plans to pass through the area. Japan's two biggest airlines have already begun defying that order.\"This has already increased the risk [that the situation] will escalate from confrontation to conflict,\" said Shi Yinhong, an expert on international relations at Renmin University in Beijing.\"I think China will take flexible measures towards any aeroplane that flies over the zone, and that will still be compatible with China's declarations,\" he added.\"America is not our direct enemy, and South Korea is our friend. But Japanese armed aircraft would be a different story. If they dare to come into China's declared\u00a0zone, the Chinese air force will take action.\"China announced the zone at the weekend, prompting criticism from Japan and the US. Some experts said it was aimed not only at chipping away at Tokyo's control of disputed islands known as the Senkaku in Japan and the Diaoyu in China, but also at challenging US dominance in the region. On Tuesday the US flew two unarmed B-52 bombers over the islands without informing Beijing.\"The East China Sea air defence identification zone is not aimed at normal international flights,\" said a Chinese foreign ministry spokesman, Qin Gang. \"We hope that relevant countries' airlines can proactively co-operate so there is more order and safety for flights.\"Asked if China was worried it would be seen as a \"paper tiger\" in light of its response to the US flights, Qin advised reporters to check Mao Zedong's use of the phrase. Mao used the term as a metaphor for \"US imperialism\" in 1956 \u2013 seemingly powerful, but easily crippled by adversity, he said. He wanted to stress that the Chinese government had adequate resolution and ability to defend its national sovereign rights and to control the zone.\"This was clearly very calculated, but that doesn't mean it wasn't a miscalculation,\" said Scott Harold, an expert on east Asian security at the Rand Corporation. China probably thought that declaring the zone was no different from its past strategic actions in the region \u2013 small, incremental steps that might annoy neighbouring countries but wouldn't cause them to react. Instead, it \"inflamed an underlying suspicion that everyone had: that China is going to work in grey zones, push the envelope and expand its territorial sovereignty claims with every opportunity it gets\".China essentially has two options, Harold said: it \"can do nothing, and confirm to the outside world that its rise is as risky as some people thought. Or on the other hand, it can do something to reassure the region and the world that it is not going to be a threat.\" For the Chinese leadership, the first could jeopardise a bevy of important diplomatic relationships; the second would entail a major loss of face.\"I don't know if there's an easy out here for China,\" Harold added. \"The easy thing would be if they'd never done it in the first place.\"Japan's top government spokesperson, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga, said on Thursday that the country had sent patrol planes into the airspace without informing China, and that China did not intercept them.\"They are carrying out surveillance activity as before in the East China Sea, including the zone,\" he told a news conference, according to Reuters. \"We are not going to change this (activity) out of consideration to China.\"", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "South Korea", "Japan"], "title": "China sends warplanes into disputed airspace over East China Sea"},{"date": "2013-11-27T23:52:39Z", "country": "china", "content": "Is it Europe before the first world war or the second? Analysts disagree, but all see the escalation of military threats between the two industrial giants China and Japan over disputed islands in the East China Sea with growing alarm. The latest crisis was caused by China's decision to extend its \"air defence identification zone\" (ADIZ) over a group of uninhabited islands which Japan calls the Senkakus and China knows as the Diaoyutai. Several overflights later, not least by a pair of US B-52 bombers, and nothing much has changed, except that a hairtrigger that originally was to be measured in hours and governed by the speed of boats, has now become a matter of seconds.Few can say what prompted the latest Chinese move. This is a time when the Chinese leader, Xi Jinping, is attempting to drive major economic reform and the announcement may be a sop to the military, when its voice in the national debate could be weakening. It is hard to avoid the conclusion, though, that the declaration was a way of testing the waters for a reaction \u2013 which they duly got. The state-run China Daily accused Japan and the US of overreacting, saying that if the world's sole superpower needed multiple ADIZs to fend off perceived threats, China should be allowed theirs. Besides, they claimed the measure was not targeted at any particular country.This is not how it is seen in Japan, which has witnessed a growing number of confrontations, or \"incidents\", over islands in which Beijing showed little interest for much of the last decade. For Japan, the dispute over the islands is part of a major naval push to extend China's maritime influence beyond the first island chain of the Pacific. China claims the status quo was changed by Japan's decision to nationalise the islands. What they don't want to admit is that this was done to stop the islands being used by Japanese nationalists on madcap flag waving stunts.The land to which the islands are closest is neither Japan nor China, but Taiwan \u2013 with which Tokyo has few problems. Last year Taiwan showed the way out of these disputes by signing an agreement with Tokyo which sidestepped the issue of sovereignty and divided the fisheries to mutual benefit. This model, first applied in the North Sea, is the only rational way out of these disputes \u2013 although it is not one that Britain is particularly keen on applying to the Falklands. China and Japan agreed in 2008 to co-operate on the joint development of the East China Sea. Further talks have never been pursued and, to date, not even a hotline exists between the two powers to avert another incident in the sea or in the air. It is time for people in China and Japan to turn down the volume of simplistic nationalist rhetoric and to pursue pragmatic dialogue.", "tags": ["Senkaku Islands", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Japan", "China"], "title": "Japan and China: collision course | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-11-26T14:02:12Z", "country": "china", "content": "I wake to near-silence. This is not what I had expected in this city of 20 million. I can hear the tat-tat of builders renovating (and gentrifying) courtyard homes, and the toot-toot of electric bikes as they navigate through the lanes.We are living in one of the 22 remaining hutongs in Beijing. The word means water well in Mongolian \u2013 a linguistic remnant of the centuries when Beijing passed between several rulers. Life on these streets has probably not changed all that much in 800 years: there is a local market, a man squats with his tools as he fixes bicycles, pigeons jostle in their coops, and there are public toilets for the older homes without sanitation.Our siheyuan (literally four-sided courtyard) is hidden behind a plain red door, but opens into a little oasis where three generations would have shared the common space but which is divided into the rooms around the courtyard. A Chinese date tree drops its sweet red fruit on to the rooftop terrace where we sit for breakfast each morning. I could be lost in this history, but through the ever-present haze of air pollution I can see modern China at the end of my street.I love these hutong mornings. Recently, we have added a new menu option to our breakfast. Instead of our usual fresh pork and chive dumplings and yoghurt in clay pots \u2013 to be drunk in situ and returned to the stallholder immediately \u2013 we are trying another hole-in-the-wall eatery. It is inconspicuous, but always attracts a long queue. We gesture at the cook's pots and speak in our \"survival\" Mandarin, and are soon sitting at the tiny roadside tables to enjoy a western Chinese broth with tofu balls, accompanied by warm, sweet buns. This comforting and filling meal costs us a couple of dollars.This simplicity and affordability are a contrast, however, with the European cars that edge their way through these narrow streets.There is a huge irony in the fact that after the painful years of Mao's attempts to achieve equality, the disparity of wealth here is now extreme. Luxury cars are plentiful in Beijing, while in the same streets labourers sleep beside the building sites where they work in makeshift shelters made of plastic sheeting stretched over bamboo structures.Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["China"], "title": "Letter from China: lost lanes"},{"date": "2013-11-03T21:54:37Z", "country": "china", "content": "A Faustian pact exists between the leadership of China and its people. It goes like this: we see to it that there is food in your bellies and that your lives improve from year to year. In return, you leave the governing to us.There is little contradiction in the eyes of the Chinese Communist party between the current crackdown on journalists, lawyers and human rights activists, and a heavily advertised central committee meeting next Saturday in which the ground rules for economic reforms could be discussed. In the former, \"western forces hostile to China and within the country are still constantly infiltrating the ideological sphere\", according to Document No 9, issued by the central committee in April. In the latter, ideas as western as government transparency, attracting private investment into utilities and incentives to reward the commercial development of land could be discussed. Going under another number \u2013 Plan 383 \u2013 it's a product of the same machine. For any survivor of the Long March, much of\u00a0what happens now \u2013 in his name \u2013 must be\u00a0anathema.No one can deny that President Xi Jinping is in control. The presence in jail of Bo Xilai and countless other disgraced party officials, some linked to past leaders and rival factions, attests to that. But neither can Mr Xi's credentials as a bold reformer yet be discounted as hype. He himself has set expectations running high of what to expect next weekend when the third plenum of the 18th central committee meets. He told Barack Obama that the coming session would be the most important for China since the one Deng Xiaoping presided over in 1978, which heralded the opening up of the Chinese economy. It will contain, he has promised, not only a \"master plan\" but a \"profound revolution\". The sort of things to look for are: broader access to, and fairer allocation of, capital; banks with more private-sector participation, and the ability to set their own interest rates; state-owned enterprises that are more commercial and accountable; and liberalised energy prices.The bigger question which lies behind each of these measures is how far Mr Xi is prepared as party leader to curtail the party's own grip on power, through state-owned banks, local government and companies controlled by the government, to stimulate this reform. For both sides of China's grand bargain are under attack. The party's ability to deliver growth is being challenged as never before. And the people, half of whom live in cities, are not as ready as they were to keep their heads down. They have questions to ask of top party cadres who send their children to be educated abroad. The hourly joust on Weibo, the Chinese version of Twitter, between user and censor is just one sign of the ferment beneath the surface.Without changing the system, Mr Xi cannot guarantee the economic growth he needs to meet the growing needs of this vast industrial society. And yet each of these reforms could erode the stability that underpins one-party rule. Delay is no longer an option. China's output expanded transformatively from 2002 to 2012, but it can no longer rely on giant public works. Even though it is projected to rise by 6.5% a year, the economy can no longer grow its way out of danger. Rising labour costs at home and weaker overseas consumer demand for the workshop of the world both point in the same direction. And yet going down that path could have political consequences.The rest of the world will have to wait a long time before the CPC willingly abandons its monopoly on power. But nothing stops experiments in intra-party democracy \u2013 in local elections, in making local government more transparent and accountable, or in giving more influence to the eight other democratic parties, which are minute, but still allowed to function. It's a balancing act. Mr Xi is no Mikhail Gorbachev. Indeed, the former Soviet leader is regarded by the Chinese as an object lesson in what not to do. But the opportunity for Mr Xi to make his mark is there to be seized. How he does so will determine the future of the world's fastest-rising power.", "tags": ["China", "Xi Jinping", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China: the numbers game | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-10-21T20:00:02Z", "country": "china", "content": "After following the developments between Unite and Ineos (Grangemouth oil refinery shuts as owners refuse to back down, 16 October), I am affronted to learn that Ineos appears to have paid hardly any tax in the UK since 2008 (Glasgow Herald, 21 October). Ineos has been making savings of \u00a3100m a year since moving its office from the UK to Switzerland in 2010. The multinational also now operates in five known tax havens. Why are we selling off our key industries to foreign companies who are exploiting this position to reinvest profits back home? This is the free-market ideology gone mad and once again the British taxpayer will be footing the bill.Louise BickertonGlasgow\u2022 Grangemouth is half owned by Petro China, part of the Chinese state petroleum company. Is this what George Osborne meant by Chinese investment on his recent trade tour?Chris JeffriesStockport, Cheshire ", "tags": ["Unite", "Trade unions", "Politics", "Oil", "China"], "title": "Letters: Ineos, tax and China"},{"date": "2013-10-18T20:00:11Z", "country": "china", "content": "You quote a leader from the GMB (Nuclear expert raises fears over Chinese role in atomic plants, 18 October) as suggesting it is almost Orwellian to allow Chinese investment into our highly sensitive energy infrastructure, given that China has been linked to corporate hacking. The point is that the British government is guilty of Orwellian doublespeak. On one hand, we're told the Chinese are a threat to British interests with their industrial-scale hacking, yet George Osborne claims that paving the way for the Chinese to play a dominant role in the UK nuclear industry is a triumph for his diplomacy.The fact is that, post-privatisation, the energy sector was starved of investment for years. Our infrastructure is creaking and the government has to go cap-in-hand to the Chinese begging for money. Far from being a triumph of Osborne's diplomatic skills, British weakness has been laid bare. We are now utterly dependent on foreign state-owned companies to keep the lights on. Chinese companies already own large chunks of our gas, electricity and water infrastructure. The government's disastrous energy policy means it had an almost nonexistent negotiating hand in China. The GMB is pragmatic and recognises that the investment is desperately needed. But we see no sign of Osborne securing any guaranteed benefits for UK manufacturing. Meanwhile, the Chinese manufacturing supply chain and nuclear industries will benefit from having a controlling interest in the UK nuclear industry.Gary SmithNational secretary, GMB commercial services section\u2022 The UK chancellor has just signed up to a deal where EDF and the Chinese get \u00a314bn just for the construction of Hinkley C. The UK government has also promised profits to the French and Chinese with a guaranteed price which is twice the existing cost, beginning in 2025 for 35 more years, after which they walk away from the UK with their profits and leave all the waste behind for thousands of years. By 2025, electricity costs in the UK will already be lower than today's costs, as wind, wave, solar and tidal power become established and their initial development costs recovered (see Germany's success).For nuclear, the taxpayers will also pay for the waste and decommissioning \u2013 \u00a3100bn and counting just for legacy waste. Taxpayers will also pay all nuclear insurance costs, from construction to onsite spent fuel storage, for thousands of years. It's not rocket science; it's not even secondary school maths. We're being conned by false threats of the lights going out and outright lies that nuclear is carbon free. And let's not even start on the health costs \u2013 yet another example of international government cover ups which make Nineteen Eighty-Four read like a fairy tale.Jo BrownBurnham-on-Sea, Somerset\u2022 The Royal Academy of Engineering study, GB Electricity Capacity Margin, highlights the need to act now to avoid energy shortfalls. This report looks at a worst-case scenario where everything that could go wrong does go wrong all at the same time. The report highlights the need to facilitate a rapid move to deployment of new large-scale electricity generation to avoid supply shortfalls over the next 10 years, and also to enable the transition to a low-carbon energy system.Capacity is tightening and there is a need to progress market reform to the point where capacity gets built. However, the consequences of unfortunate combinations of events (such as cold winter combined with plant failures beyond normal levels) would not be national blackouts. There are tools already in place to manage such situations, including voltage reductions, commercial contracts for short-term reductions of demand by industry, and in extremis, controlled and localised power cuts for short periods.The Institution of Engineering and Technology has long argued for a balanced energy portfolio including nuclear and has drawn attention to the risks of uncertainty created by the lack of long-term strategic planning which is causing potential generators to hold off investing in new plant until the position on government support is clearer.Dr Simon HarrisonInstitution of Engineering and Technology\u2022 Osborne says that using Chinese money to build a new nuclear power station will free up money for us to build more hospitals and schools. Does that infer that China is giving us the money?Brian MossTamworth, Staffordshire", "tags": ["Energy industry", "Nuclear power", "Energy", "Environment", "Nuclear waste", "Waste", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "Business", "George Osborne", "Renewable energy"], "title": "Letters: Energy sector's China syndrome"},{"date": "2013-11-28T18:56:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has sent warplanes into disputed airspace over the East China Sea after Japanese and South Korean military aircraft flew through the area, the Chinese state news agency reported.China's air force spokesman Shen Jinke says several fighter jets and an early warning aircraft were sent on normal air patrols in the zone on Thursday. He was quoted by the state news agency Xinhua.Shen described the flights as \"a defensive measure and in line with international common practices\". He said China's air force would remain on high alert and will take measures to protect the country's airspace.Japanese and South Korean aircraft flew through the airspace without informing China, officials said on Thursday, challenging a new Chinese air defence zone that has increased regional tensions and sparked concerns of an unintended clash.China rejected South Korea's demand for the repeal of the zone but appeared to soften its demand that commercial aircraft tell its military authorities of any plans to pass through the area. Japan's two biggest airlines have already begun defying that order.\"This has already increased the risk [that the situation] will escalate from confrontation to conflict,\" said Shi Yinhong, an expert on international relations at Renmin University in Beijing.\"I think China will take flexible measures towards any aeroplane that flies over the zone, and that will still be compatible with China's declarations,\" he added.\"America is not our direct enemy, and South Korea is our friend. But Japanese armed aircraft would be a different story. If they dare to come into China's declared\u00a0zone, the Chinese air force will take action.\"China announced the zone at the weekend, prompting criticism from Japan and the US. Some experts said it was aimed not only at chipping away at Tokyo's control of disputed islands known as the Senkaku in Japan and the Diaoyu in China, but also at challenging US dominance in the region. On Tuesday the US flew two unarmed B-52 bombers over the islands without informing Beijing.\"The East China Sea air defence identification zone is not aimed at normal international flights,\" said a Chinese foreign ministry spokesman, Qin Gang. \"We hope that relevant countries' airlines can proactively co-operate so there is more order and safety for flights.\"Asked if China was worried it would be seen as a \"paper tiger\" in light of its response to the US flights, Qin advised reporters to check Mao Zedong's use of the phrase. Mao used the term as a metaphor for \"US imperialism\" in 1956 \u2013 seemingly powerful, but easily crippled by adversity, he said. He wanted to stress that the Chinese government had adequate resolution and ability to defend its national sovereign rights and to control the zone.\"This was clearly very calculated, but that doesn't mean it wasn't a miscalculation,\" said Scott Harold, an expert on east Asian security at the Rand Corporation. China probably thought that declaring the zone was no different from its past strategic actions in the region \u2013 small, incremental steps that might annoy neighbouring countries but wouldn't cause them to react. Instead, it \"inflamed an underlying suspicion that everyone had: that China is going to work in grey zones, push the envelope and expand its territorial sovereignty claims with every opportunity it gets\".China essentially has two options, Harold said: it \"can do nothing, and confirm to the outside world that its rise is as risky as some people thought. Or on the other hand, it can do something to reassure the region and the world that it is not going to be a threat.\" For the Chinese leadership, the first could jeopardise a bevy of important diplomatic relationships; the second would entail a major loss of face.\"I don't know if there's an easy out here for China,\" Harold added. \"The easy thing would be if they'd never done it in the first place.\"Japan's top government spokesperson, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga, said on Thursday that the country had sent patrol planes into the airspace without informing China, and that China did not intercept them.\"They are carrying out surveillance activity as before in the East China Sea, including the zone,\" he told a news conference, according to Reuters. \"We are not going to change this (activity) out of consideration to China.\"", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "South Korea", "Japan"], "title": "China sends warplanes into disputed airspace over East China Sea"},{"date": "2013-11-27T23:52:39Z", "country": "china", "content": "Is it Europe before the first world war or the second? Analysts disagree, but all see the escalation of military threats between the two industrial giants China and Japan over disputed islands in the East China Sea with growing alarm. The latest crisis was caused by China's decision to extend its \"air defence identification zone\" (ADIZ) over a group of uninhabited islands which Japan calls the Senkakus and China knows as the Diaoyutai. Several overflights later, not least by a pair of US B-52 bombers, and nothing much has changed, except that a hairtrigger that originally was to be measured in hours and governed by the speed of boats, has now become a matter of seconds.Few can say what prompted the latest Chinese move. This is a time when the Chinese leader, Xi Jinping, is attempting to drive major economic reform and the announcement may be a sop to the military, when its voice in the national debate could be weakening. It is hard to avoid the conclusion, though, that the declaration was a way of testing the waters for a reaction \u2013 which they duly got. The state-run China Daily accused Japan and the US of overreacting, saying that if the world's sole superpower needed multiple ADIZs to fend off perceived threats, China should be allowed theirs. Besides, they claimed the measure was not targeted at any particular country.This is not how it is seen in Japan, which has witnessed a growing number of confrontations, or \"incidents\", over islands in which Beijing showed little interest for much of the last decade. For Japan, the dispute over the islands is part of a major naval push to extend China's maritime influence beyond the first island chain of the Pacific. China claims the status quo was changed by Japan's decision to nationalise the islands. What they don't want to admit is that this was done to stop the islands being used by Japanese nationalists on madcap flag waving stunts.The land to which the islands are closest is neither Japan nor China, but Taiwan \u2013 with which Tokyo has few problems. Last year Taiwan showed the way out of these disputes by signing an agreement with Tokyo which sidestepped the issue of sovereignty and divided the fisheries to mutual benefit. This model, first applied in the North Sea, is the only rational way out of these disputes \u2013 although it is not one that Britain is particularly keen on applying to the Falklands. China and Japan agreed in 2008 to co-operate on the joint development of the East China Sea. Further talks have never been pursued and, to date, not even a hotline exists between the two powers to avert another incident in the sea or in the air. It is time for people in China and Japan to turn down the volume of simplistic nationalist rhetoric and to pursue pragmatic dialogue.", "tags": ["Senkaku Islands", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Japan", "China"], "title": "Japan and China: collision course | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-11-26T14:02:12Z", "country": "china", "content": "I wake to near-silence. This is not what I had expected in this city of 20 million. I can hear the tat-tat of builders renovating (and gentrifying) courtyard homes, and the toot-toot of electric bikes as they navigate through the lanes.We are living in one of the 22 remaining hutongs in Beijing. The word means water well in Mongolian \u2013 a linguistic remnant of the centuries when Beijing passed between several rulers. Life on these streets has probably not changed all that much in 800 years: there is a local market, a man squats with his tools as he fixes bicycles, pigeons jostle in their coops, and there are public toilets for the older homes without sanitation.Our siheyuan (literally four-sided courtyard) is hidden behind a plain red door, but opens into a little oasis where three generations would have shared the common space but which is divided into the rooms around the courtyard. A Chinese date tree drops its sweet red fruit on to the rooftop terrace where we sit for breakfast each morning. I could be lost in this history, but through the ever-present haze of air pollution I can see modern China at the end of my street.I love these hutong mornings. Recently, we have added a new menu option to our breakfast. Instead of our usual fresh pork and chive dumplings and yoghurt in clay pots \u2013 to be drunk in situ and returned to the stallholder immediately \u2013 we are trying another hole-in-the-wall eatery. It is inconspicuous, but always attracts a long queue. We gesture at the cook's pots and speak in our \"survival\" Mandarin, and are soon sitting at the tiny roadside tables to enjoy a western Chinese broth with tofu balls, accompanied by warm, sweet buns. This comforting and filling meal costs us a couple of dollars.This simplicity and affordability are a contrast, however, with the European cars that edge their way through these narrow streets.There is a huge irony in the fact that after the painful years of Mao's attempts to achieve equality, the disparity of wealth here is now extreme. Luxury cars are plentiful in Beijing, while in the same streets labourers sleep beside the building sites where they work in makeshift shelters made of plastic sheeting stretched over bamboo structures.Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["China"], "title": "Letter from China: lost lanes"},{"date": "2013-11-08T13:47:28Z", "country": "china", "content": "China's colossal red icebreaker, the Xuelong or Snow Dragon, embarked on a 155-day expedition to Antarctica on Thursday. The voyage marks China's 30th trip to the continent, and many of the 256 crew are scientists hunting meteorites. Also onboard are construction materials to establish the country's fourth Antarctic research station, Taishan, which is to be located in Australian-claimed territory, a vast area of East Antarctica that houses an unknown wealth of coal, iron ores, manganese and hydrocarbon.In 1960, one year before the Antarctic Treaty came into force, a geologist declared before the US science academy that he \"would not give a nickel for all the resources of Antarctica\". Today, in a world of dwindling fossil fuels and soaring energy needs, countries are spending lavishly to explore the potential of the world's last unexploited continent.China, which is resource-scarce, is unambiguous about its polar aims. At a Politburo committee conference in July, president Xi Jinping emphasised the necessity of polar exploration to \"take advantage of ocean and polar resources\", according to a government website.In the north, China has been granted observer status by the Arctic Council, allowing it more influence. In the south, the country is rapidly building research stations \u2013 a method of assertion on a continent where sovereignty is disputed. In 2003, China's yearly Antarctic spending was \u00a312m; by 2013 it was \u00a335m, accounting for 80% of the total polar budget.Article seven of Antarctica's Protocol on Environmental Protection stipulates that activity relating to mineral resources, other than scientific research, is prohibited. But this ruling, up for review in 2048, allows geological surveillance. \"It is necessary for us to fully understand the resources on the continent,\" says Guo Peiqing, a professor of law and politics at the Ocean University of China. \"China's exploration of the continent is like playing chess. It's important to have a position in the global game. We don't know when play will happen, but it's necessary to have a foothold.\"As budgets of long-established states shrivel, those of newer players including India, South Korea and China expand. The focus on resources by some countries has been of concern to those who value the conservation ethic of the treaty, which protects the continent as a science preserve. \"One of the things that's of concern in Antarctic governance is a lack of genuine checking up of what countries are doing,\" says Anne-Marie Brady, author of an upcoming book on China's polar strategy.Brady adds that the energy needs of many nations in 2048 will differ from today. If predictions about Antarctica's 200 billion barrel oil capacity prove correct, the continent's reserves would be third largest in the world, according to the Lowy Institute. Fresh water is also abundant. As persistent high temperatures melt ice from the 1.5m sq km of coastal shelf, scavenging could become a reality in a water-hungry world.With Antarctica, there is much at stake. As a carbon sink, the continent plays an essential role in global weather. The Antarctic Bottom Water \u2013 the coldest and most oxygen-rich deep-water body on earth \u2013 ventilates the world's seas, and excessive fishing or offshore drilling will decrease its oxygen content, reducing efficacy. Environmental groups have long been worried about the overexploitation of krill, a crustacean vital to its ecosystem, as well as the longevity of the toothfish.Decision-making in Antarctica is consensual. As countries with conflicting agendas strive to further national interest, the ability to protect Antarctica's ecology weakens. Already the international body established to protect marine life is struggling to ratify new measures. At a meeting last week of the Commission for the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources, two proposals for new protected areas were stalled when China, Russia and Ukraine withdrew support over fears about fishing curbs.\"It's inevitable that people will want to go to Antarctica because they've taken too much fish from everyplace else,\" says James Barnes, executive director of the Antarctic and Southern Ocean Coalition. \"But it's not inevitable that they [will] get to do so.\"\u2022 Additional research by Xia Keyu", "tags": ["Polar regions", "Environment", "Antarctica", "World news", "China", "Geology", "Science"], "title": "China eyes Antarctica's resource bounty"},{"date": "2013-11-03T21:54:37Z", "country": "china", "content": "A Faustian pact exists between the leadership of China and its people. It goes like this: we see to it that there is food in your bellies and that your lives improve from year to year. In return, you leave the governing to us.There is little contradiction in the eyes of the Chinese Communist party between the current crackdown on journalists, lawyers and human rights activists, and a heavily advertised central committee meeting next Saturday in which the ground rules for economic reforms could be discussed. In the former, \"western forces hostile to China and within the country are still constantly infiltrating the ideological sphere\", according to Document No 9, issued by the central committee in April. In the latter, ideas as western as government transparency, attracting private investment into utilities and incentives to reward the commercial development of land could be discussed. Going under another number \u2013 Plan 383 \u2013 it's a product of the same machine. For any survivor of the Long March, much of\u00a0what happens now \u2013 in his name \u2013 must be\u00a0anathema.No one can deny that President Xi Jinping is in control. The presence in jail of Bo Xilai and countless other disgraced party officials, some linked to past leaders and rival factions, attests to that. But neither can Mr Xi's credentials as a bold reformer yet be discounted as hype. He himself has set expectations running high of what to expect next weekend when the third plenum of the 18th central committee meets. He told Barack Obama that the coming session would be the most important for China since the one Deng Xiaoping presided over in 1978, which heralded the opening up of the Chinese economy. It will contain, he has promised, not only a \"master plan\" but a \"profound revolution\". The sort of things to look for are: broader access to, and fairer allocation of, capital; banks with more private-sector participation, and the ability to set their own interest rates; state-owned enterprises that are more commercial and accountable; and liberalised energy prices.The bigger question which lies behind each of these measures is how far Mr Xi is prepared as party leader to curtail the party's own grip on power, through state-owned banks, local government and companies controlled by the government, to stimulate this reform. For both sides of China's grand bargain are under attack. The party's ability to deliver growth is being challenged as never before. And the people, half of whom live in cities, are not as ready as they were to keep their heads down. They have questions to ask of top party cadres who send their children to be educated abroad. The hourly joust on Weibo, the Chinese version of Twitter, between user and censor is just one sign of the ferment beneath the surface.Without changing the system, Mr Xi cannot guarantee the economic growth he needs to meet the growing needs of this vast industrial society. And yet each of these reforms could erode the stability that underpins one-party rule. Delay is no longer an option. China's output expanded transformatively from 2002 to 2012, but it can no longer rely on giant public works. Even though it is projected to rise by 6.5% a year, the economy can no longer grow its way out of danger. Rising labour costs at home and weaker overseas consumer demand for the workshop of the world both point in the same direction. And yet going down that path could have political consequences.The rest of the world will have to wait a long time before the CPC willingly abandons its monopoly on power. But nothing stops experiments in intra-party democracy \u2013 in local elections, in making local government more transparent and accountable, or in giving more influence to the eight other democratic parties, which are minute, but still allowed to function. It's a balancing act. Mr Xi is no Mikhail Gorbachev. Indeed, the former Soviet leader is regarded by the Chinese as an object lesson in what not to do. But the opportunity for Mr Xi to make his mark is there to be seized. How he does so will determine the future of the world's fastest-rising power.", "tags": ["China", "Xi Jinping", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China: the numbers game | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-10-21T20:00:02Z", "country": "china", "content": "After following the developments between Unite and Ineos (Grangemouth oil refinery shuts as owners refuse to back down, 16 October), I am affronted to learn that Ineos appears to have paid hardly any tax in the UK since 2008 (Glasgow Herald, 21 October). Ineos has been making savings of \u00a3100m a year since moving its office from the UK to Switzerland in 2010. The multinational also now operates in five known tax havens. Why are we selling off our key industries to foreign companies who are exploiting this position to reinvest profits back home? This is the free-market ideology gone mad and once again the British taxpayer will be footing the bill.Louise BickertonGlasgow\u2022 Grangemouth is half owned by Petro China, part of the Chinese state petroleum company. Is this what George Osborne meant by Chinese investment on his recent trade tour?Chris JeffriesStockport, Cheshire ", "tags": ["Unite", "Trade unions", "Politics", "Oil", "China"], "title": "Letters: Ineos, tax and China"},{"date": "2013-10-18T20:00:11Z", "country": "china", "content": "You quote a leader from the GMB (Nuclear expert raises fears over Chinese role in atomic plants, 18 October) as suggesting it is almost Orwellian to allow Chinese investment into our highly sensitive energy infrastructure, given that China has been linked to corporate hacking. The point is that the British government is guilty of Orwellian doublespeak. On one hand, we're told the Chinese are a threat to British interests with their industrial-scale hacking, yet George Osborne claims that paving the way for the Chinese to play a dominant role in the UK nuclear industry is a triumph for his diplomacy.The fact is that, post-privatisation, the energy sector was starved of investment for years. Our infrastructure is creaking and the government has to go cap-in-hand to the Chinese begging for money. Far from being a triumph of Osborne's diplomatic skills, British weakness has been laid bare. We are now utterly dependent on foreign state-owned companies to keep the lights on. Chinese companies already own large chunks of our gas, electricity and water infrastructure. The government's disastrous energy policy means it had an almost nonexistent negotiating hand in China. The GMB is pragmatic and recognises that the investment is desperately needed. But we see no sign of Osborne securing any guaranteed benefits for UK manufacturing. Meanwhile, the Chinese manufacturing supply chain and nuclear industries will benefit from having a controlling interest in the UK nuclear industry.Gary SmithNational secretary, GMB commercial services section\u2022 The UK chancellor has just signed up to a deal where EDF and the Chinese get \u00a314bn just for the construction of Hinkley C. The UK government has also promised profits to the French and Chinese with a guaranteed price which is twice the existing cost, beginning in 2025 for 35 more years, after which they walk away from the UK with their profits and leave all the waste behind for thousands of years. By 2025, electricity costs in the UK will already be lower than today's costs, as wind, wave, solar and tidal power become established and their initial development costs recovered (see Germany's success).For nuclear, the taxpayers will also pay for the waste and decommissioning \u2013 \u00a3100bn and counting just for legacy waste. Taxpayers will also pay all nuclear insurance costs, from construction to onsite spent fuel storage, for thousands of years. It's not rocket science; it's not even secondary school maths. We're being conned by false threats of the lights going out and outright lies that nuclear is carbon free. And let's not even start on the health costs \u2013 yet another example of international government cover ups which make Nineteen Eighty-Four read like a fairy tale.Jo BrownBurnham-on-Sea, Somerset\u2022 The Royal Academy of Engineering study, GB Electricity Capacity Margin, highlights the need to act now to avoid energy shortfalls. This report looks at a worst-case scenario where everything that could go wrong does go wrong all at the same time. The report highlights the need to facilitate a rapid move to deployment of new large-scale electricity generation to avoid supply shortfalls over the next 10 years, and also to enable the transition to a low-carbon energy system.Capacity is tightening and there is a need to progress market reform to the point where capacity gets built. However, the consequences of unfortunate combinations of events (such as cold winter combined with plant failures beyond normal levels) would not be national blackouts. There are tools already in place to manage such situations, including voltage reductions, commercial contracts for short-term reductions of demand by industry, and in extremis, controlled and localised power cuts for short periods.The Institution of Engineering and Technology has long argued for a balanced energy portfolio including nuclear and has drawn attention to the risks of uncertainty created by the lack of long-term strategic planning which is causing potential generators to hold off investing in new plant until the position on government support is clearer.Dr Simon HarrisonInstitution of Engineering and Technology\u2022 Osborne says that using Chinese money to build a new nuclear power station will free up money for us to build more hospitals and schools. Does that infer that China is giving us the money?Brian MossTamworth, Staffordshire", "tags": ["Energy industry", "Nuclear power", "Energy", "Environment", "Nuclear waste", "Waste", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "Business", "George Osborne", "Renewable energy"], "title": "Letters: Energy sector's China syndrome"},{"date": "2013-11-28T18:56:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has sent warplanes into disputed airspace over the East China Sea after Japanese and South Korean military aircraft flew through the area, the Chinese state news agency reported.China's air force spokesman Shen Jinke says several fighter jets and an early warning aircraft were sent on normal air patrols in the zone on Thursday. He was quoted by the state news agency Xinhua.Shen described the flights as \"a defensive measure and in line with international common practices\". He said China's air force would remain on high alert and will take measures to protect the country's airspace.Japanese and South Korean aircraft flew through the airspace without informing China, officials said on Thursday, challenging a new Chinese air defence zone that has increased regional tensions and sparked concerns of an unintended clash.China rejected South Korea's demand for the repeal of the zone but appeared to soften its demand that commercial aircraft tell its military authorities of any plans to pass through the area. Japan's two biggest airlines have already begun defying that order.\"This has already increased the risk [that the situation] will escalate from confrontation to conflict,\" said Shi Yinhong, an expert on international relations at Renmin University in Beijing.\"I think China will take flexible measures towards any aeroplane that flies over the zone, and that will still be compatible with China's declarations,\" he added.\"America is not our direct enemy, and South Korea is our friend. But Japanese armed aircraft would be a different story. If they dare to come into China's declared\u00a0zone, the Chinese air force will take action.\"China announced the zone at the weekend, prompting criticism from Japan and the US. Some experts said it was aimed not only at chipping away at Tokyo's control of disputed islands known as the Senkaku in Japan and the Diaoyu in China, but also at challenging US dominance in the region. On Tuesday the US flew two unarmed B-52 bombers over the islands without informing Beijing.\"The East China Sea air defence identification zone is not aimed at normal international flights,\" said a Chinese foreign ministry spokesman, Qin Gang. \"We hope that relevant countries' airlines can proactively co-operate so there is more order and safety for flights.\"Asked if China was worried it would be seen as a \"paper tiger\" in light of its response to the US flights, Qin advised reporters to check Mao Zedong's use of the phrase. Mao used the term as a metaphor for \"US imperialism\" in 1956 \u2013 seemingly powerful, but easily crippled by adversity, he said. He wanted to stress that the Chinese government had adequate resolution and ability to defend its national sovereign rights and to control the zone.\"This was clearly very calculated, but that doesn't mean it wasn't a miscalculation,\" said Scott Harold, an expert on east Asian security at the Rand Corporation. China probably thought that declaring the zone was no different from its past strategic actions in the region \u2013 small, incremental steps that might annoy neighbouring countries but wouldn't cause them to react. Instead, it \"inflamed an underlying suspicion that everyone had: that China is going to work in grey zones, push the envelope and expand its territorial sovereignty claims with every opportunity it gets\".China essentially has two options, Harold said: it \"can do nothing, and confirm to the outside world that its rise is as risky as some people thought. Or on the other hand, it can do something to reassure the region and the world that it is not going to be a threat.\" For the Chinese leadership, the first could jeopardise a bevy of important diplomatic relationships; the second would entail a major loss of face.\"I don't know if there's an easy out here for China,\" Harold added. \"The easy thing would be if they'd never done it in the first place.\"Japan's top government spokesperson, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga, said on Thursday that the country had sent patrol planes into the airspace without informing China, and that China did not intercept them.\"They are carrying out surveillance activity as before in the East China Sea, including the zone,\" he told a news conference, according to Reuters. \"We are not going to change this (activity) out of consideration to China.\"", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "South Korea", "Japan"], "title": "China sends warplanes into disputed airspace over East China Sea"},{"date": "2013-11-27T23:52:39Z", "country": "china", "content": "Is it Europe before the first world war or the second? Analysts disagree, but all see the escalation of military threats between the two industrial giants China and Japan over disputed islands in the East China Sea with growing alarm. The latest crisis was caused by China's decision to extend its \"air defence identification zone\" (ADIZ) over a group of uninhabited islands which Japan calls the Senkakus and China knows as the Diaoyutai. Several overflights later, not least by a pair of US B-52 bombers, and nothing much has changed, except that a hairtrigger that originally was to be measured in hours and governed by the speed of boats, has now become a matter of seconds.Few can say what prompted the latest Chinese move. This is a time when the Chinese leader, Xi Jinping, is attempting to drive major economic reform and the announcement may be a sop to the military, when its voice in the national debate could be weakening. It is hard to avoid the conclusion, though, that the declaration was a way of testing the waters for a reaction \u2013 which they duly got. The state-run China Daily accused Japan and the US of overreacting, saying that if the world's sole superpower needed multiple ADIZs to fend off perceived threats, China should be allowed theirs. Besides, they claimed the measure was not targeted at any particular country.This is not how it is seen in Japan, which has witnessed a growing number of confrontations, or \"incidents\", over islands in which Beijing showed little interest for much of the last decade. For Japan, the dispute over the islands is part of a major naval push to extend China's maritime influence beyond the first island chain of the Pacific. China claims the status quo was changed by Japan's decision to nationalise the islands. What they don't want to admit is that this was done to stop the islands being used by Japanese nationalists on madcap flag waving stunts.The land to which the islands are closest is neither Japan nor China, but Taiwan \u2013 with which Tokyo has few problems. Last year Taiwan showed the way out of these disputes by signing an agreement with Tokyo which sidestepped the issue of sovereignty and divided the fisheries to mutual benefit. This model, first applied in the North Sea, is the only rational way out of these disputes \u2013 although it is not one that Britain is particularly keen on applying to the Falklands. China and Japan agreed in 2008 to co-operate on the joint development of the East China Sea. Further talks have never been pursued and, to date, not even a hotline exists between the two powers to avert another incident in the sea or in the air. It is time for people in China and Japan to turn down the volume of simplistic nationalist rhetoric and to pursue pragmatic dialogue.", "tags": ["Senkaku Islands", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Japan", "China"], "title": "Japan and China: collision course | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-11-26T14:02:12Z", "country": "china", "content": "I wake to near-silence. This is not what I had expected in this city of 20 million. I can hear the tat-tat of builders renovating (and gentrifying) courtyard homes, and the toot-toot of electric bikes as they navigate through the lanes.We are living in one of the 22 remaining hutongs in Beijing. The word means water well in Mongolian \u2013 a linguistic remnant of the centuries when Beijing passed between several rulers. Life on these streets has probably not changed all that much in 800 years: there is a local market, a man squats with his tools as he fixes bicycles, pigeons jostle in their coops, and there are public toilets for the older homes without sanitation.Our siheyuan (literally four-sided courtyard) is hidden behind a plain red door, but opens into a little oasis where three generations would have shared the common space but which is divided into the rooms around the courtyard. A Chinese date tree drops its sweet red fruit on to the rooftop terrace where we sit for breakfast each morning. I could be lost in this history, but through the ever-present haze of air pollution I can see modern China at the end of my street.I love these hutong mornings. Recently, we have added a new menu option to our breakfast. Instead of our usual fresh pork and chive dumplings and yoghurt in clay pots \u2013 to be drunk in situ and returned to the stallholder immediately \u2013 we are trying another hole-in-the-wall eatery. It is inconspicuous, but always attracts a long queue. We gesture at the cook's pots and speak in our \"survival\" Mandarin, and are soon sitting at the tiny roadside tables to enjoy a western Chinese broth with tofu balls, accompanied by warm, sweet buns. This comforting and filling meal costs us a couple of dollars.This simplicity and affordability are a contrast, however, with the European cars that edge their way through these narrow streets.There is a huge irony in the fact that after the painful years of Mao's attempts to achieve equality, the disparity of wealth here is now extreme. Luxury cars are plentiful in Beijing, while in the same streets labourers sleep beside the building sites where they work in makeshift shelters made of plastic sheeting stretched over bamboo structures.Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["China"], "title": "Letter from China: lost lanes"},{"date": "2013-11-08T13:47:28Z", "country": "china", "content": "China's colossal red icebreaker, the Xuelong or Snow Dragon, embarked on a 155-day expedition to Antarctica on Thursday. The voyage marks China's 30th trip to the continent, and many of the 256 crew are scientists hunting meteorites. Also onboard are construction materials to establish the country's fourth Antarctic research station, Taishan, which is to be located in Australian-claimed territory, a vast area of East Antarctica that houses an unknown wealth of coal, iron ores, manganese and hydrocarbon.In 1960, one year before the Antarctic Treaty came into force, a geologist declared before the US science academy that he \"would not give a nickel for all the resources of Antarctica\". Today, in a world of dwindling fossil fuels and soaring energy needs, countries are spending lavishly to explore the potential of the world's last unexploited continent.China, which is resource-scarce, is unambiguous about its polar aims. At a Politburo committee conference in July, president Xi Jinping emphasised the necessity of polar exploration to \"take advantage of ocean and polar resources\", according to a government website.In the north, China has been granted observer status by the Arctic Council, allowing it more influence. In the south, the country is rapidly building research stations \u2013 a method of assertion on a continent where sovereignty is disputed. In 2003, China's yearly Antarctic spending was \u00a312m; by 2013 it was \u00a335m, accounting for 80% of the total polar budget.Article seven of Antarctica's Protocol on Environmental Protection stipulates that activity relating to mineral resources, other than scientific research, is prohibited. But this ruling, up for review in 2048, allows geological surveillance. \"It is necessary for us to fully understand the resources on the continent,\" says Guo Peiqing, a professor of law and politics at the Ocean University of China. \"China's exploration of the continent is like playing chess. It's important to have a position in the global game. We don't know when play will happen, but it's necessary to have a foothold.\"As budgets of long-established states shrivel, those of newer players including India, South Korea and China expand. The focus on resources by some countries has been of concern to those who value the conservation ethic of the treaty, which protects the continent as a science preserve. \"One of the things that's of concern in Antarctic governance is a lack of genuine checking up of what countries are doing,\" says Anne-Marie Brady, author of an upcoming book on China's polar strategy.Brady adds that the energy needs of many nations in 2048 will differ from today. If predictions about Antarctica's 200 billion barrel oil capacity prove correct, the continent's reserves would be third largest in the world, according to the Lowy Institute. Fresh water is also abundant. As persistent high temperatures melt ice from the 1.5m sq km of coastal shelf, scavenging could become a reality in a water-hungry world.With Antarctica, there is much at stake. As a carbon sink, the continent plays an essential role in global weather. The Antarctic Bottom Water \u2013 the coldest and most oxygen-rich deep-water body on earth \u2013 ventilates the world's seas, and excessive fishing or offshore drilling will decrease its oxygen content, reducing efficacy. Environmental groups have long been worried about the overexploitation of krill, a crustacean vital to its ecosystem, as well as the longevity of the toothfish.Decision-making in Antarctica is consensual. As countries with conflicting agendas strive to further national interest, the ability to protect Antarctica's ecology weakens. Already the international body established to protect marine life is struggling to ratify new measures. At a meeting last week of the Commission for the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources, two proposals for new protected areas were stalled when China, Russia and Ukraine withdrew support over fears about fishing curbs.\"It's inevitable that people will want to go to Antarctica because they've taken too much fish from everyplace else,\" says James Barnes, executive director of the Antarctic and Southern Ocean Coalition. \"But it's not inevitable that they [will] get to do so.\"\u2022 Additional research by Xia Keyu", "tags": ["Polar regions", "Environment", "Antarctica", "World news", "China", "Geology", "Science"], "title": "China eyes Antarctica's resource bounty"},{"date": "2013-12-13T12:57:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "The Scar probably isn't China Mi\u00e9ville's best novel. That accolade should go to The City and the City or Embassytown, books which set out from the start to discomfit and unsettle: the first playing with spatial awareness and the very ground beneath the characters' feet; the second coining new vocabulary to portray an alien world and worrying at theories of language and meaning. But for world-building immersiveness and sheer rollicking readability \u2013 Mi\u00e9ville aimed to write, as he put it, \"the ripping yarn that is also sociologically serious and stylistically avant-garde\" \u2013 it can't be beaten.It's the second novel to be set in the Bas-Lag universe: a fantastical world in which humans, Remades (criminals punished by being surgically altered), walking cacti, women with scarab beetles for heads, \"scabmettlers\" who make armour from their own congealing blood and many other wild and wonderful hybrid creatures rub alongside each other. But it's also a world in which power is always wielded, brutally, from above. Mi\u00e9ville has lambasted JRR Tolkien's presentation of fantasy as a cosy \"consolation\", and The Scar is anything but consoling. His main character, Bellis Coldwine, is a lonely, withdrawn woman forced into exile: she is press-ganged onto a floating pirate city, Armada, ruled by a close-bound pair known only as the Lovers \u2013 who carve matching scars into each other's faces \u2013 and their enigmatic bodyguard, Uther Doul. We gradually discover that the citizens of Armada are on a quest to harness the power of a rift in reality \u2013 the Scar, or one of the scars, of the title \u2013 but Mi\u00e9ville doesn't deal in fulfillment, or triumphal homecomings. The journey is everything.The journey, and the monsters. Mi\u00e9ville has often said,, \"I'm in this business for the monsters\", and The Scar contains some of his best. The aquatically enigmatic grindylow, \"unclear things \u2026 pulling their way through water\". The anophelii, terrifying mosquito-people who once \"ruled the southern lands in a short-lived nightmare of blood and plague and monstrous thirst\" known as the Malarial Queendom and are now confined to a tiny island for everyone else's safety (the women swell up as they drain their victims of blood; the men are nervous. As in our world, only the females bite). And best of all, \"the mountain-that-swims, the godwhale, the greatest beast ever to visit our world, the avanc\". This mythical creature, which is bigger than can possibly be imagined \u2013 though Mi\u00e9ville has fun trying \u2013 is the only thing strong enough to drag the floating city towards its goal. In a world full of magic, a legendary being so extraordinary that even the characters barely believe it's real adds another layer of wonder.If Bas-Lag is a cold and hard place for its inhabitants, dangerous and mystifying by turns, however, there is something intensely reassuring for the reader about being hundreds of pages deep in a fantasy world and knowing there are hundreds more to go (the paperback clocks in at 795pp). I first read (some of) The Scar on a weekend in Porto, and remember clearly the sense of visiting two vivid new places running in tandem: the real and the fantastical. Some books are best experienced when you're 14 (I'm thinking chiefly of Alan Garner's exhilaratingly bleak Red Shift, which will always be in my top 10 even though I can never return to it with the same teenage intensity). Others can make you read as though you're 14 again: heavy with time, light on responsibility, eager to surrender to a world more extreme and highly coloured than the one around you and not at all averse to a wee bit of portentousness. And just as there is something comforting about knowing there's a rich alternative world folded into fiction to explore, there is something comforting, of course, about being able to close the book.", "tags": ["Culture", "Books", "Science fiction", "China Mi\u00e9ville", "Fiction"], "title": "Comfort reading: The Scar, by China Mi\u00e9ville"},{"date": "2013-11-03T21:54:37Z", "country": "china", "content": "A Faustian pact exists between the leadership of China and its people. It goes like this: we see to it that there is food in your bellies and that your lives improve from year to year. In return, you leave the governing to us.There is little contradiction in the eyes of the Chinese Communist party between the current crackdown on journalists, lawyers and human rights activists, and a heavily advertised central committee meeting next Saturday in which the ground rules for economic reforms could be discussed. In the former, \"western forces hostile to China and within the country are still constantly infiltrating the ideological sphere\", according to Document No 9, issued by the central committee in April. In the latter, ideas as western as government transparency, attracting private investment into utilities and incentives to reward the commercial development of land could be discussed. Going under another number \u2013 Plan 383 \u2013 it's a product of the same machine. For any survivor of the Long March, much of\u00a0what happens now \u2013 in his name \u2013 must be\u00a0anathema.No one can deny that President Xi Jinping is in control. The presence in jail of Bo Xilai and countless other disgraced party officials, some linked to past leaders and rival factions, attests to that. But neither can Mr Xi's credentials as a bold reformer yet be discounted as hype. He himself has set expectations running high of what to expect next weekend when the third plenum of the 18th central committee meets. He told Barack Obama that the coming session would be the most important for China since the one Deng Xiaoping presided over in 1978, which heralded the opening up of the Chinese economy. It will contain, he has promised, not only a \"master plan\" but a \"profound revolution\". The sort of things to look for are: broader access to, and fairer allocation of, capital; banks with more private-sector participation, and the ability to set their own interest rates; state-owned enterprises that are more commercial and accountable; and liberalised energy prices.The bigger question which lies behind each of these measures is how far Mr Xi is prepared as party leader to curtail the party's own grip on power, through state-owned banks, local government and companies controlled by the government, to stimulate this reform. For both sides of China's grand bargain are under attack. The party's ability to deliver growth is being challenged as never before. And the people, half of whom live in cities, are not as ready as they were to keep their heads down. They have questions to ask of top party cadres who send their children to be educated abroad. The hourly joust on Weibo, the Chinese version of Twitter, between user and censor is just one sign of the ferment beneath the surface.Without changing the system, Mr Xi cannot guarantee the economic growth he needs to meet the growing needs of this vast industrial society. And yet each of these reforms could erode the stability that underpins one-party rule. Delay is no longer an option. China's output expanded transformatively from 2002 to 2012, but it can no longer rely on giant public works. Even though it is projected to rise by 6.5% a year, the economy can no longer grow its way out of danger. Rising labour costs at home and weaker overseas consumer demand for the workshop of the world both point in the same direction. And yet going down that path could have political consequences.The rest of the world will have to wait a long time before the CPC willingly abandons its monopoly on power. But nothing stops experiments in intra-party democracy \u2013 in local elections, in making local government more transparent and accountable, or in giving more influence to the eight other democratic parties, which are minute, but still allowed to function. It's a balancing act. Mr Xi is no Mikhail Gorbachev. Indeed, the former Soviet leader is regarded by the Chinese as an object lesson in what not to do. But the opportunity for Mr Xi to make his mark is there to be seized. How he does so will determine the future of the world's fastest-rising power.", "tags": ["China", "Xi Jinping", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China: the numbers game | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-10-21T20:00:02Z", "country": "china", "content": "After following the developments between Unite and Ineos (Grangemouth oil refinery shuts as owners refuse to back down, 16 October), I am affronted to learn that Ineos appears to have paid hardly any tax in the UK since 2008 (Glasgow Herald, 21 October). Ineos has been making savings of \u00a3100m a year since moving its office from the UK to Switzerland in 2010. The multinational also now operates in five known tax havens. Why are we selling off our key industries to foreign companies who are exploiting this position to reinvest profits back home? This is the free-market ideology gone mad and once again the British taxpayer will be footing the bill.Louise BickertonGlasgow\u2022 Grangemouth is half owned by Petro China, part of the Chinese state petroleum company. Is this what George Osborne meant by Chinese investment on his recent trade tour?Chris JeffriesStockport, Cheshire ", "tags": ["Unite", "Trade unions", "Politics", "Oil", "China"], "title": "Letters: Ineos, tax and China"},{"date": "2013-10-18T20:00:11Z", "country": "china", "content": "You quote a leader from the GMB (Nuclear expert raises fears over Chinese role in atomic plants, 18 October) as suggesting it is almost Orwellian to allow Chinese investment into our highly sensitive energy infrastructure, given that China has been linked to corporate hacking. The point is that the British government is guilty of Orwellian doublespeak. On one hand, we're told the Chinese are a threat to British interests with their industrial-scale hacking, yet George Osborne claims that paving the way for the Chinese to play a dominant role in the UK nuclear industry is a triumph for his diplomacy.The fact is that, post-privatisation, the energy sector was starved of investment for years. Our infrastructure is creaking and the government has to go cap-in-hand to the Chinese begging for money. Far from being a triumph of Osborne's diplomatic skills, British weakness has been laid bare. We are now utterly dependent on foreign state-owned companies to keep the lights on. Chinese companies already own large chunks of our gas, electricity and water infrastructure. The government's disastrous energy policy means it had an almost nonexistent negotiating hand in China. The GMB is pragmatic and recognises that the investment is desperately needed. But we see no sign of Osborne securing any guaranteed benefits for UK manufacturing. Meanwhile, the Chinese manufacturing supply chain and nuclear industries will benefit from having a controlling interest in the UK nuclear industry.Gary SmithNational secretary, GMB commercial services section\u2022 The UK chancellor has just signed up to a deal where EDF and the Chinese get \u00a314bn just for the construction of Hinkley C. The UK government has also promised profits to the French and Chinese with a guaranteed price which is twice the existing cost, beginning in 2025 for 35 more years, after which they walk away from the UK with their profits and leave all the waste behind for thousands of years. By 2025, electricity costs in the UK will already be lower than today's costs, as wind, wave, solar and tidal power become established and their initial development costs recovered (see Germany's success).For nuclear, the taxpayers will also pay for the waste and decommissioning \u2013 \u00a3100bn and counting just for legacy waste. Taxpayers will also pay all nuclear insurance costs, from construction to onsite spent fuel storage, for thousands of years. It's not rocket science; it's not even secondary school maths. We're being conned by false threats of the lights going out and outright lies that nuclear is carbon free. And let's not even start on the health costs \u2013 yet another example of international government cover ups which make Nineteen Eighty-Four read like a fairy tale.Jo BrownBurnham-on-Sea, Somerset\u2022 The Royal Academy of Engineering study, GB Electricity Capacity Margin, highlights the need to act now to avoid energy shortfalls. This report looks at a worst-case scenario where everything that could go wrong does go wrong all at the same time. The report highlights the need to facilitate a rapid move to deployment of new large-scale electricity generation to avoid supply shortfalls over the next 10 years, and also to enable the transition to a low-carbon energy system.Capacity is tightening and there is a need to progress market reform to the point where capacity gets built. However, the consequences of unfortunate combinations of events (such as cold winter combined with plant failures beyond normal levels) would not be national blackouts. There are tools already in place to manage such situations, including voltage reductions, commercial contracts for short-term reductions of demand by industry, and in extremis, controlled and localised power cuts for short periods.The Institution of Engineering and Technology has long argued for a balanced energy portfolio including nuclear and has drawn attention to the risks of uncertainty created by the lack of long-term strategic planning which is causing potential generators to hold off investing in new plant until the position on government support is clearer.Dr Simon HarrisonInstitution of Engineering and Technology\u2022 Osborne says that using Chinese money to build a new nuclear power station will free up money for us to build more hospitals and schools. Does that infer that China is giving us the money?Brian MossTamworth, Staffordshire", "tags": ["Energy industry", "Nuclear power", "Energy", "Environment", "Nuclear waste", "Waste", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "Business", "George Osborne", "Renewable energy"], "title": "Letters: Energy sector's China syndrome"},{"date": "2013-11-28T18:56:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has sent warplanes into disputed airspace over the East China Sea after Japanese and South Korean military aircraft flew through the area, the Chinese state news agency reported.China's air force spokesman Shen Jinke says several fighter jets and an early warning aircraft were sent on normal air patrols in the zone on Thursday. He was quoted by the state news agency Xinhua.Shen described the flights as \"a defensive measure and in line with international common practices\". He said China's air force would remain on high alert and will take measures to protect the country's airspace.Japanese and South Korean aircraft flew through the airspace without informing China, officials said on Thursday, challenging a new Chinese air defence zone that has increased regional tensions and sparked concerns of an unintended clash.China rejected South Korea's demand for the repeal of the zone but appeared to soften its demand that commercial aircraft tell its military authorities of any plans to pass through the area. Japan's two biggest airlines have already begun defying that order.\"This has already increased the risk [that the situation] will escalate from confrontation to conflict,\" said Shi Yinhong, an expert on international relations at Renmin University in Beijing.\"I think China will take flexible measures towards any aeroplane that flies over the zone, and that will still be compatible with China's declarations,\" he added.\"America is not our direct enemy, and South Korea is our friend. But Japanese armed aircraft would be a different story. If they dare to come into China's declared\u00a0zone, the Chinese air force will take action.\"China announced the zone at the weekend, prompting criticism from Japan and the US. Some experts said it was aimed not only at chipping away at Tokyo's control of disputed islands known as the Senkaku in Japan and the Diaoyu in China, but also at challenging US dominance in the region. On Tuesday the US flew two unarmed B-52 bombers over the islands without informing Beijing.\"The East China Sea air defence identification zone is not aimed at normal international flights,\" said a Chinese foreign ministry spokesman, Qin Gang. \"We hope that relevant countries' airlines can proactively co-operate so there is more order and safety for flights.\"Asked if China was worried it would be seen as a \"paper tiger\" in light of its response to the US flights, Qin advised reporters to check Mao Zedong's use of the phrase. Mao used the term as a metaphor for \"US imperialism\" in 1956 \u2013 seemingly powerful, but easily crippled by adversity, he said. He wanted to stress that the Chinese government had adequate resolution and ability to defend its national sovereign rights and to control the zone.\"This was clearly very calculated, but that doesn't mean it wasn't a miscalculation,\" said Scott Harold, an expert on east Asian security at the Rand Corporation. China probably thought that declaring the zone was no different from its past strategic actions in the region \u2013 small, incremental steps that might annoy neighbouring countries but wouldn't cause them to react. Instead, it \"inflamed an underlying suspicion that everyone had: that China is going to work in grey zones, push the envelope and expand its territorial sovereignty claims with every opportunity it gets\".China essentially has two options, Harold said: it \"can do nothing, and confirm to the outside world that its rise is as risky as some people thought. Or on the other hand, it can do something to reassure the region and the world that it is not going to be a threat.\" For the Chinese leadership, the first could jeopardise a bevy of important diplomatic relationships; the second would entail a major loss of face.\"I don't know if there's an easy out here for China,\" Harold added. \"The easy thing would be if they'd never done it in the first place.\"Japan's top government spokesperson, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga, said on Thursday that the country had sent patrol planes into the airspace without informing China, and that China did not intercept them.\"They are carrying out surveillance activity as before in the East China Sea, including the zone,\" he told a news conference, according to Reuters. \"We are not going to change this (activity) out of consideration to China.\"", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "South Korea", "Japan"], "title": "China sends warplanes into disputed airspace over East China Sea"},{"date": "2013-11-27T23:52:39Z", "country": "china", "content": "Is it Europe before the first world war or the second? Analysts disagree, but all see the escalation of military threats between the two industrial giants China and Japan over disputed islands in the East China Sea with growing alarm. The latest crisis was caused by China's decision to extend its \"air defence identification zone\" (ADIZ) over a group of uninhabited islands which Japan calls the Senkakus and China knows as the Diaoyutai. Several overflights later, not least by a pair of US B-52 bombers, and nothing much has changed, except that a hairtrigger that originally was to be measured in hours and governed by the speed of boats, has now become a matter of seconds.Few can say what prompted the latest Chinese move. This is a time when the Chinese leader, Xi Jinping, is attempting to drive major economic reform and the announcement may be a sop to the military, when its voice in the national debate could be weakening. It is hard to avoid the conclusion, though, that the declaration was a way of testing the waters for a reaction \u2013 which they duly got. The state-run China Daily accused Japan and the US of overreacting, saying that if the world's sole superpower needed multiple ADIZs to fend off perceived threats, China should be allowed theirs. Besides, they claimed the measure was not targeted at any particular country.This is not how it is seen in Japan, which has witnessed a growing number of confrontations, or \"incidents\", over islands in which Beijing showed little interest for much of the last decade. For Japan, the dispute over the islands is part of a major naval push to extend China's maritime influence beyond the first island chain of the Pacific. China claims the status quo was changed by Japan's decision to nationalise the islands. What they don't want to admit is that this was done to stop the islands being used by Japanese nationalists on madcap flag waving stunts.The land to which the islands are closest is neither Japan nor China, but Taiwan \u2013 with which Tokyo has few problems. Last year Taiwan showed the way out of these disputes by signing an agreement with Tokyo which sidestepped the issue of sovereignty and divided the fisheries to mutual benefit. This model, first applied in the North Sea, is the only rational way out of these disputes \u2013 although it is not one that Britain is particularly keen on applying to the Falklands. China and Japan agreed in 2008 to co-operate on the joint development of the East China Sea. Further talks have never been pursued and, to date, not even a hotline exists between the two powers to avert another incident in the sea or in the air. It is time for people in China and Japan to turn down the volume of simplistic nationalist rhetoric and to pursue pragmatic dialogue.", "tags": ["Senkaku Islands", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Japan", "China"], "title": "Japan and China: collision course | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-11-26T14:02:12Z", "country": "china", "content": "I wake to near-silence. This is not what I had expected in this city of 20 million. I can hear the tat-tat of builders renovating (and gentrifying) courtyard homes, and the toot-toot of electric bikes as they navigate through the lanes.We are living in one of the 22 remaining hutongs in Beijing. The word means water well in Mongolian \u2013 a linguistic remnant of the centuries when Beijing passed between several rulers. Life on these streets has probably not changed all that much in 800 years: there is a local market, a man squats with his tools as he fixes bicycles, pigeons jostle in their coops, and there are public toilets for the older homes without sanitation.Our siheyuan (literally four-sided courtyard) is hidden behind a plain red door, but opens into a little oasis where three generations would have shared the common space but which is divided into the rooms around the courtyard. A Chinese date tree drops its sweet red fruit on to the rooftop terrace where we sit for breakfast each morning. I could be lost in this history, but through the ever-present haze of air pollution I can see modern China at the end of my street.I love these hutong mornings. Recently, we have added a new menu option to our breakfast. Instead of our usual fresh pork and chive dumplings and yoghurt in clay pots \u2013 to be drunk in situ and returned to the stallholder immediately \u2013 we are trying another hole-in-the-wall eatery. It is inconspicuous, but always attracts a long queue. We gesture at the cook's pots and speak in our \"survival\" Mandarin, and are soon sitting at the tiny roadside tables to enjoy a western Chinese broth with tofu balls, accompanied by warm, sweet buns. This comforting and filling meal costs us a couple of dollars.This simplicity and affordability are a contrast, however, with the European cars that edge their way through these narrow streets.There is a huge irony in the fact that after the painful years of Mao's attempts to achieve equality, the disparity of wealth here is now extreme. Luxury cars are plentiful in Beijing, while in the same streets labourers sleep beside the building sites where they work in makeshift shelters made of plastic sheeting stretched over bamboo structures.Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["China"], "title": "Letter from China: lost lanes"},{"date": "2013-11-08T13:47:28Z", "country": "china", "content": "China's colossal red icebreaker, the Xuelong or Snow Dragon, embarked on a 155-day expedition to Antarctica on Thursday. The voyage marks China's 30th trip to the continent, and many of the 256 crew are scientists hunting meteorites. Also onboard are construction materials to establish the country's fourth Antarctic research station, Taishan, which is to be located in Australian-claimed territory, a vast area of East Antarctica that houses an unknown wealth of coal, iron ores, manganese and hydrocarbon.In 1960, one year before the Antarctic Treaty came into force, a geologist declared before the US science academy that he \"would not give a nickel for all the resources of Antarctica\". Today, in a world of dwindling fossil fuels and soaring energy needs, countries are spending lavishly to explore the potential of the world's last unexploited continent.China, which is resource-scarce, is unambiguous about its polar aims. At a Politburo committee conference in July, president Xi Jinping emphasised the necessity of polar exploration to \"take advantage of ocean and polar resources\", according to a government website.In the north, China has been granted observer status by the Arctic Council, allowing it more influence. In the south, the country is rapidly building research stations \u2013 a method of assertion on a continent where sovereignty is disputed. In 2003, China's yearly Antarctic spending was \u00a312m; by 2013 it was \u00a335m, accounting for 80% of the total polar budget.Article seven of Antarctica's Protocol on Environmental Protection stipulates that activity relating to mineral resources, other than scientific research, is prohibited. But this ruling, up for review in 2048, allows geological surveillance. \"It is necessary for us to fully understand the resources on the continent,\" says Guo Peiqing, a professor of law and politics at the Ocean University of China. \"China's exploration of the continent is like playing chess. It's important to have a position in the global game. We don't know when play will happen, but it's necessary to have a foothold.\"As budgets of long-established states shrivel, those of newer players including India, South Korea and China expand. The focus on resources by some countries has been of concern to those who value the conservation ethic of the treaty, which protects the continent as a science preserve. \"One of the things that's of concern in Antarctic governance is a lack of genuine checking up of what countries are doing,\" says Anne-Marie Brady, author of an upcoming book on China's polar strategy.Brady adds that the energy needs of many nations in 2048 will differ from today. If predictions about Antarctica's 200 billion barrel oil capacity prove correct, the continent's reserves would be third largest in the world, according to the Lowy Institute. Fresh water is also abundant. As persistent high temperatures melt ice from the 1.5m sq km of coastal shelf, scavenging could become a reality in a water-hungry world.With Antarctica, there is much at stake. As a carbon sink, the continent plays an essential role in global weather. The Antarctic Bottom Water \u2013 the coldest and most oxygen-rich deep-water body on earth \u2013 ventilates the world's seas, and excessive fishing or offshore drilling will decrease its oxygen content, reducing efficacy. Environmental groups have long been worried about the overexploitation of krill, a crustacean vital to its ecosystem, as well as the longevity of the toothfish.Decision-making in Antarctica is consensual. As countries with conflicting agendas strive to further national interest, the ability to protect Antarctica's ecology weakens. Already the international body established to protect marine life is struggling to ratify new measures. At a meeting last week of the Commission for the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources, two proposals for new protected areas were stalled when China, Russia and Ukraine withdrew support over fears about fishing curbs.\"It's inevitable that people will want to go to Antarctica because they've taken too much fish from everyplace else,\" says James Barnes, executive director of the Antarctic and Southern Ocean Coalition. \"But it's not inevitable that they [will] get to do so.\"\u2022 Additional research by Xia Keyu", "tags": ["Polar regions", "Environment", "Antarctica", "World news", "China", "Geology", "Science"], "title": "China eyes Antarctica's resource bounty"},{"date": "2013-12-13T12:57:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "The Scar probably isn't China Mi\u00e9ville's best novel. That accolade should go to The City and the City or Embassytown, books which set out from the start to discomfit and unsettle: the first playing with spatial awareness and the very ground beneath the characters' feet; the second coining new vocabulary to portray an alien world and worrying at theories of language and meaning. But for world-building immersiveness and sheer rollicking readability \u2013 Mi\u00e9ville aimed to write, as he put it, \"the ripping yarn that is also sociologically serious and stylistically avant-garde\" \u2013 it can't be beaten.It's the second novel to be set in the Bas-Lag universe: a fantastical world in which humans, Remades (criminals punished by being surgically altered), walking cacti, women with scarab beetles for heads, \"scabmettlers\" who make armour from their own congealing blood and many other wild and wonderful hybrid creatures rub alongside each other. But it's also a world in which power is always wielded, brutally, from above. Mi\u00e9ville has lambasted JRR Tolkien's presentation of fantasy as a cosy \"consolation\", and The Scar is anything but consoling. His main character, Bellis Coldwine, is a lonely, withdrawn woman forced into exile: she is press-ganged onto a floating pirate city, Armada, ruled by a close-bound pair known only as the Lovers \u2013 who carve matching scars into each other's faces \u2013 and their enigmatic bodyguard, Uther Doul. We gradually discover that the citizens of Armada are on a quest to harness the power of a rift in reality \u2013 the Scar, or one of the scars, of the title \u2013 but Mi\u00e9ville doesn't deal in fulfillment, or triumphal homecomings. The journey is everything.The journey, and the monsters. Mi\u00e9ville has often said,, \"I'm in this business for the monsters\", and The Scar contains some of his best. The aquatically enigmatic grindylow, \"unclear things \u2026 pulling their way through water\". The anophelii, terrifying mosquito-people who once \"ruled the southern lands in a short-lived nightmare of blood and plague and monstrous thirst\" known as the Malarial Queendom and are now confined to a tiny island for everyone else's safety (the women swell up as they drain their victims of blood; the men are nervous. As in our world, only the females bite). And best of all, \"the mountain-that-swims, the godwhale, the greatest beast ever to visit our world, the avanc\". This mythical creature, which is bigger than can possibly be imagined \u2013 though Mi\u00e9ville has fun trying \u2013 is the only thing strong enough to drag the floating city towards its goal. In a world full of magic, a legendary being so extraordinary that even the characters barely believe it's real adds another layer of wonder.If Bas-Lag is a cold and hard place for its inhabitants, dangerous and mystifying by turns, however, there is something intensely reassuring for the reader about being hundreds of pages deep in a fantasy world and knowing there are hundreds more to go (the paperback clocks in at 795pp). I first read (some of) The Scar on a weekend in Porto, and remember clearly the sense of visiting two vivid new places running in tandem: the real and the fantastical. Some books are best experienced when you're 14 (I'm thinking chiefly of Alan Garner's exhilaratingly bleak Red Shift, which will always be in my top 10 even though I can never return to it with the same teenage intensity). Others can make you read as though you're 14 again: heavy with time, light on responsibility, eager to surrender to a world more extreme and highly coloured than the one around you and not at all averse to a wee bit of portentousness. And just as there is something comforting about knowing there's a rich alternative world folded into fiction to explore, there is something comforting, of course, about being able to close the book.", "tags": ["Culture", "Books", "Science fiction", "China Mi\u00e9ville", "Fiction"], "title": "Comfort reading: The Scar, by China Mi\u00e9ville"},{"date": "2013-12-03T22:38:50Z", "country": "china", "content": "China's first stretch of railway track was built by a British firm in 1876, but soon dismantled on the orders of Chinese imperial officials who regarded it as a fiendish foreign invention. The second was built in 1881 under the supervision of Claude William Kinder, an English civil engineer. This one survived, and its first locomotive, in tribute to Robert Stephenson, was called the Rocket of China.Kinder went on to become one of the men, many British, who shaped the extensive steam railway system that transformed the Chinese economy and ushered Chinese society into the modern age. Kinder, created a mandarin of the Red Button by the imperial government for his services, would no doubt be amazed at the thought that Chinese engineers could soon be on their way to Britain to help build a railway here. How the wheel turns! Britain has almost completely lost the skills that made us the first railway nation and which we exported\u00a0on a vast\u00a0scale, while the Chinese\u00a0are\u00a0in the\u00a0process\u00a0of gaining them.The Chinese bullet train network was created with help from German, Japanese and Canadian firms, but its newer trains and track are to its own design, and it is now poised to sell them to the rest of the world.Whether David Cameron, who sometimes seems lacking in a sense of history, had any thought for this bitter dimension when he announced in Beijing, with the Chinese prime minister, Li Keqiang, standing next to him, that Britain welcomed Chinese investment in our own HS2 project, we cannot know.What applies to railways applies with equal force to nuclear science, where Britain was within living memory a pioneer, but now must turn to others, including China, for help with new power stations. Yet this turning of the technological tables can be overemphasised. Comparative advantage shifts, as it always does. Britain is not so far gone, scientifically and industrially, and China is not so far advanced as a black and white comparison between 1881 and 2013 might suggest.That is why, among other reasons, it is regrettable that the British approach to China under the coalition has come to have about it something mendicant, cap in hand, and unduly deferential. Mr Cameron began in office determined to stand up to China on human rights issues and to indicate disapproval of China's policies in Tibet. He even met the Dalai Lama. The Chinese, of course, regard any encounter with a man who is widely regarded as among the sanest and most decent people on the planet as a vicious outrage that must be immediately punished, and Britain was duly shoved out and cold-shouldered.The British government then changed its position on Tibet, and was rewarded with permission for the large trade mission that arrived in China on Monday. The prime minister chose to herald the trip with an article in a Chinese publication claiming that Britain was China's best friend, most assiduous advocate, and most willing partner in the world. If this\u00a0is\u00a0not\u00a0fawning, it is pretty close to it.True, Britain is not alone in this pro-Chinese litany. Every member of the European Union has sung the same song at one time or another, all discarding principle as they sought to secure a share of the Chinese market and, these days, a share of the money China now has to invest abroad. Much sniggering behind the menu card at the Chinese foreign trade banquet can be heard as competitors blot their copybooks on human rights matters. Britain struggled for years, for example, to get the best possible deal for the people of Hong Kong while other countries resolutely looked the other way.Japan now has less support on South China Sea issues than it should have, for the same reason, which is that the approach of trade-hungry nations to China positively invites a\u00a0divide and rule response.There may be poetic justice in the fact that once upon a time European nations divided China and now China finds it easy to divide us. But it is not in the end good for either side that this should be so.", "tags": ["Manufacturing data", "Engineering", "David Cameron", "Rail transport", "Economics", "Technology", "Business", "UK news", "China"], "title": "Britain and China: the wheel turns | Editorial"},{"date": "2014-03-14T15:25:51Z", "country": "china", "content": "Great Britain has always been an exporting nation. However, the economic challenges of recent years have meant that many small businesses have concentrated on day-to-day survival, rather than ambitious plans for global growth. But, there has never been a better time for these firms to shift their focus from the risks of export to the potential rewards it can bring.Exporting was a key pillar of my business, Tangle Teezer, from the word go. I had to overcome concerns about trading overseas as I knew the UK was never going to be a big enough market for us. However, the road to export can be a daunting one if you have never done it before. There are numerous hurdles to overcome, from practical considerations such as language barriers and marketing capabilities, to logistical worries about late payment and legalities. It's easy for firms to stick to their comfort zone and put export in the \"too difficult\" box. But, I'm a firm believer in seeing the opportunity instead of the challenge and think others should approach business with the same positivity.I'd encourage all small business leaders who aren't meeting their export potential to make the most of all of the help and expertise that's available to them. We accessed the expertise of UK Trade & Investment (UKTI) through the Passport to Export scheme. Passport to Export gave us the training, planning and ongoing support we needed to succeed in several territories. It helped us to identify and plan our expansion \u2013 particularly when it came to selecting partner organisations in foreign markets.One of the key factors in our success was embracing the potential of our product. Tangle Teezer suits all hair types, which is a challenge in some respects but it meant that the product knew no boundaries. That said we recognised that this one size fits all ethos couldn't be applied to our export strategy \u2013 every country is different. We needed to mine insights into different markets and tailor our approach accordingly.I'm not saying that export has always been plain sailing for us, like anything in business there are sometimes ups and downs. Take Germany, which proved to be surprisingly slow going in Tangle Teezer's early days. Few orders were coming from there and we were coming up against brick walls. This is where the support we received through Passport to Export was invaluable. We were able to turn the situation around and Germany is now one of our biggest markets. The first step was when the British Embassy in Berlin did some research for us and identified potential business partners. We then sent some Tangle Teezers to some celebrity hairdressers, bloggers, and top magazines in Germany. This worked like a dream. One magical day, Bild newspaper ran a big feature upon the British \"Wunderbrush!\" And then those customers identified by the British Embassy started calling us. In 2012 I was asked to speak at the British Ambassador's residence in Berlin about our success in Germany. I would not have believed that three years earlier, it just goes to show how quickly things can turn around.With the right knowledge, insight and support, small business can be confident in pursuing the potential that export has to offer. The benefits can be huge. According to official research conducted by the UKTI, exporting has a positive impact on business productivity, with 34% of companies who start exporting stating they were more productive in the first year alone. In addition, 85% of businesses said that exporting had led to a level of growth not otherwise possible.I can vouch for these benefits, I've seen business growth first hand. I started Tangle Teezer six years ago and we're now exporting to countries from The Netherlands (this was our first market) to China. In fact we were bigger in The Netherlands than we were in the UK in the early days. I remember the distributor calling me up from Rotterdam just after the Dragon's Den had aired in the UK, and he said \"I've seen you on the BBC, we'd like to distribute your brush.\" I had never imagined someone sitting at home in The Netherlands might be watching The Dragon's Den. Breaking into the China market was equally surprising. I started getting web orders from China in 2011. Just like that, up to 300 a day. It transpired that a famous Chinese model had bought a Tangle Teezer in Oxford Street and posted it on her blog in China. Boom! China is now our second biggest global market, nearly all sold online. There are 260 million Chinese consumers who shop online, and you can manage the whole of this huge market from a desk in the UK. Amazing. They love the \"Made in the UK\" stamp. The hub that the UK has provided for our global expansion has been fantastic.One piece of advice that I would give from my experience is that there isn't a barrier to export that can't be overcome with the right help and advice. It's not just UKTI that offers support; for example the British Chambers of Commerce provides lots of advice and training. Small businesses can also learn a lot from their peers, either through networking events or online communities like Open to Export. Yes, there are challenges - some of which can be very difficult to conquer \u2013 but small firms shouldn't let this stop them from achieving global growth.Shaun Pulfrey is founder and chief executive of Tangle Teezer LtdSign up to become a member of the Guardian Small Business Network here for more advice, insight and best practice direct to your inbox.", "tags": ["Exporting to new markets", "Guardian Small Business Network"], "title": "My breakthrough moment in China"},{"date": "2014-03-14T15:25:51Z", "country": "china", "content": "Great Britain has always been an exporting nation. However, the economic challenges of recent years have meant that many small businesses have concentrated on day-to-day survival, rather than ambitious plans for global growth. But, there has never been a better time for these firms to shift their focus from the risks of export to the potential rewards it can bring.Exporting was a key pillar of my business, Tangle Teezer, from the word go. I had to overcome concerns about trading overseas as I knew the UK was never going to be a big enough market for us. However, the road to export can be a daunting one if you have never done it before. There are numerous hurdles to overcome, from practical considerations such as language barriers and marketing capabilities, to logistical worries about late payment and legalities. It's easy for firms to stick to their comfort zone and put export in the \"too difficult\" box. But, I'm a firm believer in seeing the opportunity instead of the challenge and think others should approach business with the same positivity.I'd encourage all small business leaders who aren't meeting their export potential to make the most of all of the help and expertise that's available to them. We accessed the expertise of UK Trade & Investment (UKTI) through the Passport to Export scheme. Passport to Export gave us the training, planning and ongoing support we needed to succeed in several territories. It helped us to identify and plan our expansion \u2013 particularly when it came to selecting partner organisations in foreign markets.One of the key factors in our success was embracing the potential of our product. Tangle Teezer suits all hair types, which is a challenge in some respects but it meant that the product knew no boundaries. That said we recognised that this one size fits all ethos couldn't be applied to our export strategy \u2013 every country is different. We needed to mine insights into different markets and tailor our approach accordingly.I'm not saying that export has always been plain sailing for us, like anything in business there are sometimes ups and downs. Take Germany, which proved to be surprisingly slow going in Tangle Teezer's early days. Few orders were coming from there and we were coming up against brick walls. This is where the support we received through Passport to Export was invaluable. We were able to turn the situation around and Germany is now one of our biggest markets. The first step was when the British Embassy in Berlin did some research for us and identified potential business partners. We then sent some Tangle Teezers to some celebrity hairdressers, bloggers, and top magazines in Germany. This worked like a dream. One magical day, Bild newspaper ran a big feature upon the British \"Wunderbrush!\" And then those customers identified by the British Embassy started calling us. In 2012 I was asked to speak at the British Ambassador's residence in Berlin about our success in Germany. I would not have believed that three years earlier, it just goes to show how quickly things can turn around.With the right knowledge, insight and support, small business can be confident in pursuing the potential that export has to offer. The benefits can be huge. According to official research conducted by the UKTI, exporting has a positive impact on business productivity, with 34% of companies who start exporting stating they were more productive in the first year alone. In addition, 85% of businesses said that exporting had led to a level of growth not otherwise possible.I can vouch for these benefits, I've seen business growth first hand. I started Tangle Teezer six years ago and we're now exporting to countries from The Netherlands (this was our first market) to China. In fact we were bigger in The Netherlands than we were in the UK in the early days. I remember the distributor calling me up from Rotterdam just after the Dragon's Den had aired in the UK, and he said \"I've seen you on the BBC, we'd like to distribute your brush.\" I had never imagined someone sitting at home in The Netherlands might be watching The Dragon's Den. Breaking into the China market was equally surprising. I started getting web orders from China in 2011. Just like that, up to 300 a day. It transpired that a famous Chinese model had bought a Tangle Teezer in Oxford Street and posted it on her blog in China. Boom! China is now our second biggest global market, nearly all sold online. There are 260 million Chinese consumers who shop online, and you can manage the whole of this huge market from a desk in the UK. Amazing. They love the \"Made in the UK\" stamp. The hub that the UK has provided for our global expansion has been fantastic.One piece of advice that I would give from my experience is that there isn't a barrier to export that can't be overcome with the right help and advice. It's not just UKTI that offers support; for example the British Chambers of Commerce provides lots of advice and training. Small businesses can also learn a lot from their peers, either through networking events or online communities like Open to Export. Yes, there are challenges - some of which can be very difficult to conquer \u2013 but small firms shouldn't let this stop them from achieving global growth.Shaun Pulfrey is founder and chief executive of Tangle Teezer LtdSign up to become a member of the Guardian Small Business Network here for more advice, insight and best practice direct to your inbox.", "tags": ["Exporting to new markets", "Guardian Small Business Network"], "title": "My breakthrough moment in China"},{"date": "2014-01-29T17:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Nissan's sales have hit an all-time high after Chinese consumers rediscovered their taste for Japanese cars.The Japanese company said it had sold almost 460,000 cars and vans in December, 15% more than last year and an all-time record. The boom was in large part down to Chinese consumers, who drove away the Nissan Teana saloon and Qashqai SUV in record numbers. Nissan's year-on-year sales in China for December were up 70% to 134,160.The figures are a snapshot of the lucrative ties between the world's third and second largest economies, which are currently embroiled in a potentially explosive dispute over some small islands and uninhabited rocks in the South China Sea.Production in China was also at a record high, with around 130,600 vehicles rolling off Nissan's assembly lines in the country.In Europe, Nissan's December's monthly sales rose 8.8% to 56,000 cars and vans. This reflects the recent industry-wide upturn in car sales across the continent after many countries saw purchases fall off a cliff during the recession. Acea, the association of european carmakers, said on Tuesday that it expects European car sales to grow by 2% in 2014, although they will remain well below their 2007 peak in most countries. In 2013, the UK bucked a trend for falling sales across the European Union, helped by easy credit.Nissan's global production also rose in December, although it made fewer cars in Japan. Total production was up 15% to almost 400,000 cars and vans compared to last year. In the UK, production declined, as the company reduced its output in readiness for the next version of the Qashqai. Nissan announced earlier this month that the workforce at its Sunderland plant will rise to 7,000 for the first time, as it takes on 500 new workers to begin rolling out the new Qashqai.Nissan's new London black cab is also to be assembled in Coventry, the company said this week, with a petrol version produced from December and an electric version expected next year.The vehicle will be shipped from Nissan's factory in Barcelona to ADV Manufacturing's plant in Coventry for final assembly, as part of a \u00a36m joint investment by the two firms.", "tags": ["Nissan", "Automotive industry", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Renault", "Business"], "title": "Nissan sales boom in China"},{"date": "2014-03-14T15:25:51Z", "country": "china", "content": "Great Britain has always been an exporting nation. However, the economic challenges of recent years have meant that many small businesses have concentrated on day-to-day survival, rather than ambitious plans for global growth. But, there has never been a better time for these firms to shift their focus from the risks of export to the potential rewards it can bring.Exporting was a key pillar of my business, Tangle Teezer, from the word go. I had to overcome concerns about trading overseas as I knew the UK was never going to be a big enough market for us. However, the road to export can be a daunting one if you have never done it before. There are numerous hurdles to overcome, from practical considerations such as language barriers and marketing capabilities, to logistical worries about late payment and legalities. It's easy for firms to stick to their comfort zone and put export in the \"too difficult\" box. But, I'm a firm believer in seeing the opportunity instead of the challenge and think others should approach business with the same positivity.I'd encourage all small business leaders who aren't meeting their export potential to make the most of all of the help and expertise that's available to them. We accessed the expertise of UK Trade & Investment (UKTI) through the Passport to Export scheme. Passport to Export gave us the training, planning and ongoing support we needed to succeed in several territories. It helped us to identify and plan our expansion \u2013 particularly when it came to selecting partner organisations in foreign markets.One of the key factors in our success was embracing the potential of our product. Tangle Teezer suits all hair types, which is a challenge in some respects but it meant that the product knew no boundaries. That said we recognised that this one size fits all ethos couldn't be applied to our export strategy \u2013 every country is different. We needed to mine insights into different markets and tailor our approach accordingly.I'm not saying that export has always been plain sailing for us, like anything in business there are sometimes ups and downs. Take Germany, which proved to be surprisingly slow going in Tangle Teezer's early days. Few orders were coming from there and we were coming up against brick walls. This is where the support we received through Passport to Export was invaluable. We were able to turn the situation around and Germany is now one of our biggest markets. The first step was when the British Embassy in Berlin did some research for us and identified potential business partners. We then sent some Tangle Teezers to some celebrity hairdressers, bloggers, and top magazines in Germany. This worked like a dream. One magical day, Bild newspaper ran a big feature upon the British \"Wunderbrush!\" And then those customers identified by the British Embassy started calling us. In 2012 I was asked to speak at the British Ambassador's residence in Berlin about our success in Germany. I would not have believed that three years earlier, it just goes to show how quickly things can turn around.With the right knowledge, insight and support, small business can be confident in pursuing the potential that export has to offer. The benefits can be huge. According to official research conducted by the UKTI, exporting has a positive impact on business productivity, with 34% of companies who start exporting stating they were more productive in the first year alone. In addition, 85% of businesses said that exporting had led to a level of growth not otherwise possible.I can vouch for these benefits, I've seen business growth first hand. I started Tangle Teezer six years ago and we're now exporting to countries from The Netherlands (this was our first market) to China. In fact we were bigger in The Netherlands than we were in the UK in the early days. I remember the distributor calling me up from Rotterdam just after the Dragon's Den had aired in the UK, and he said \"I've seen you on the BBC, we'd like to distribute your brush.\" I had never imagined someone sitting at home in The Netherlands might be watching The Dragon's Den. Breaking into the China market was equally surprising. I started getting web orders from China in 2011. Just like that, up to 300 a day. It transpired that a famous Chinese model had bought a Tangle Teezer in Oxford Street and posted it on her blog in China. Boom! China is now our second biggest global market, nearly all sold online. There are 260 million Chinese consumers who shop online, and you can manage the whole of this huge market from a desk in the UK. Amazing. They love the \"Made in the UK\" stamp. The hub that the UK has provided for our global expansion has been fantastic.One piece of advice that I would give from my experience is that there isn't a barrier to export that can't be overcome with the right help and advice. It's not just UKTI that offers support; for example the British Chambers of Commerce provides lots of advice and training. Small businesses can also learn a lot from their peers, either through networking events or online communities like Open to Export. Yes, there are challenges - some of which can be very difficult to conquer \u2013 but small firms shouldn't let this stop them from achieving global growth.Shaun Pulfrey is founder and chief executive of Tangle Teezer LtdSign up to become a member of the Guardian Small Business Network here for more advice, insight and best practice direct to your inbox.", "tags": ["Exporting to new markets", "Guardian Small Business Network"], "title": "My breakthrough moment in China"},{"date": "2014-01-29T17:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Nissan's sales have hit an all-time high after Chinese consumers rediscovered their taste for Japanese cars.The Japanese company said it had sold almost 460,000 cars and vans in December, 15% more than last year and an all-time record. The boom was in large part down to Chinese consumers, who drove away the Nissan Teana saloon and Qashqai SUV in record numbers. Nissan's year-on-year sales in China for December were up 70% to 134,160.The figures are a snapshot of the lucrative ties between the world's third and second largest economies, which are currently embroiled in a potentially explosive dispute over some small islands and uninhabited rocks in the South China Sea.Production in China was also at a record high, with around 130,600 vehicles rolling off Nissan's assembly lines in the country.In Europe, Nissan's December's monthly sales rose 8.8% to 56,000 cars and vans. This reflects the recent industry-wide upturn in car sales across the continent after many countries saw purchases fall off a cliff during the recession. Acea, the association of european carmakers, said on Tuesday that it expects European car sales to grow by 2% in 2014, although they will remain well below their 2007 peak in most countries. In 2013, the UK bucked a trend for falling sales across the European Union, helped by easy credit.Nissan's global production also rose in December, although it made fewer cars in Japan. Total production was up 15% to almost 400,000 cars and vans compared to last year. In the UK, production declined, as the company reduced its output in readiness for the next version of the Qashqai. Nissan announced earlier this month that the workforce at its Sunderland plant will rise to 7,000 for the first time, as it takes on 500 new workers to begin rolling out the new Qashqai.Nissan's new London black cab is also to be assembled in Coventry, the company said this week, with a petrol version produced from December and an electric version expected next year.The vehicle will be shipped from Nissan's factory in Barcelona to ADV Manufacturing's plant in Coventry for final assembly, as part of a \u00a36m joint investment by the two firms.", "tags": ["Nissan", "Automotive industry", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Renault", "Business"], "title": "Nissan sales boom in China"},{"date": "2014-01-25T09:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "This is a fascinating, original fusion of Moby Dick, Greek myths, steampunk, literary theory, philosophy, dystopia, science fiction and adventure. The main character, Sham, is a moler on the railsea \u2013 a tangled network of tracks that crisscross the bare earth between various islands. In the earth live the burrowing animals that Sham and the crew hunt, including giant earwigs, rabbits, moles and, in particular, the ivory-coloured talpa ferox rex called Mockerjack, which Sham's captain is obsessed with killing.Mieville's love of words permeates the whole novel, and while it's not a read for the faint-hearted, anyone who perseveres through the first few pages will quickly adjust to the vocabulary. The reader is hurled straight into a fully realised and totally convincing futuristic world, somewhat reminiscent of Philip Reeve's Mortal Engines. Although some critics have labelled Mieville's use of ampersands (&) pretentious, I love how they reflect the twisting tracks of the railsea itself. Anyone who likes crazy imagination, brilliant characterisation, uplifting philosophy and, above all, gorgeous writing, should read this book.Want to tell the world about a book you've read? Join the site and send us your review!", "tags": ["Children and teenagers", "Books", "Culture", "Teen books", "Sci-fi (children and teens)"], "title": "Railsea by China Mieville - review"},{"date": "2014-03-14T15:25:51Z", "country": "china", "content": "Great Britain has always been an exporting nation. However, the economic challenges of recent years have meant that many small businesses have concentrated on day-to-day survival, rather than ambitious plans for global growth. But, there has never been a better time for these firms to shift their focus from the risks of export to the potential rewards it can bring.Exporting was a key pillar of my business, Tangle Teezer, from the word go. I had to overcome concerns about trading overseas as I knew the UK was never going to be a big enough market for us. However, the road to export can be a daunting one if you have never done it before. There are numerous hurdles to overcome, from practical considerations such as language barriers and marketing capabilities, to logistical worries about late payment and legalities. It's easy for firms to stick to their comfort zone and put export in the \"too difficult\" box. But, I'm a firm believer in seeing the opportunity instead of the challenge and think others should approach business with the same positivity.I'd encourage all small business leaders who aren't meeting their export potential to make the most of all of the help and expertise that's available to them. We accessed the expertise of UK Trade & Investment (UKTI) through the Passport to Export scheme. Passport to Export gave us the training, planning and ongoing support we needed to succeed in several territories. It helped us to identify and plan our expansion \u2013 particularly when it came to selecting partner organisations in foreign markets.One of the key factors in our success was embracing the potential of our product. Tangle Teezer suits all hair types, which is a challenge in some respects but it meant that the product knew no boundaries. That said we recognised that this one size fits all ethos couldn't be applied to our export strategy \u2013 every country is different. We needed to mine insights into different markets and tailor our approach accordingly.I'm not saying that export has always been plain sailing for us, like anything in business there are sometimes ups and downs. Take Germany, which proved to be surprisingly slow going in Tangle Teezer's early days. Few orders were coming from there and we were coming up against brick walls. This is where the support we received through Passport to Export was invaluable. We were able to turn the situation around and Germany is now one of our biggest markets. The first step was when the British Embassy in Berlin did some research for us and identified potential business partners. We then sent some Tangle Teezers to some celebrity hairdressers, bloggers, and top magazines in Germany. This worked like a dream. One magical day, Bild newspaper ran a big feature upon the British \"Wunderbrush!\" And then those customers identified by the British Embassy started calling us. In 2012 I was asked to speak at the British Ambassador's residence in Berlin about our success in Germany. I would not have believed that three years earlier, it just goes to show how quickly things can turn around.With the right knowledge, insight and support, small business can be confident in pursuing the potential that export has to offer. The benefits can be huge. According to official research conducted by the UKTI, exporting has a positive impact on business productivity, with 34% of companies who start exporting stating they were more productive in the first year alone. In addition, 85% of businesses said that exporting had led to a level of growth not otherwise possible.I can vouch for these benefits, I've seen business growth first hand. I started Tangle Teezer six years ago and we're now exporting to countries from The Netherlands (this was our first market) to China. In fact we were bigger in The Netherlands than we were in the UK in the early days. I remember the distributor calling me up from Rotterdam just after the Dragon's Den had aired in the UK, and he said \"I've seen you on the BBC, we'd like to distribute your brush.\" I had never imagined someone sitting at home in The Netherlands might be watching The Dragon's Den. Breaking into the China market was equally surprising. I started getting web orders from China in 2011. Just like that, up to 300 a day. It transpired that a famous Chinese model had bought a Tangle Teezer in Oxford Street and posted it on her blog in China. Boom! China is now our second biggest global market, nearly all sold online. There are 260 million Chinese consumers who shop online, and you can manage the whole of this huge market from a desk in the UK. Amazing. They love the \"Made in the UK\" stamp. The hub that the UK has provided for our global expansion has been fantastic.One piece of advice that I would give from my experience is that there isn't a barrier to export that can't be overcome with the right help and advice. It's not just UKTI that offers support; for example the British Chambers of Commerce provides lots of advice and training. Small businesses can also learn a lot from their peers, either through networking events or online communities like Open to Export. Yes, there are challenges - some of which can be very difficult to conquer \u2013 but small firms shouldn't let this stop them from achieving global growth.Shaun Pulfrey is founder and chief executive of Tangle Teezer LtdSign up to become a member of the Guardian Small Business Network here for more advice, insight and best practice direct to your inbox.", "tags": ["Exporting to new markets", "Guardian Small Business Network"], "title": "My breakthrough moment in China"},{"date": "2014-01-29T17:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Nissan's sales have hit an all-time high after Chinese consumers rediscovered their taste for Japanese cars.The Japanese company said it had sold almost 460,000 cars and vans in December, 15% more than last year and an all-time record. The boom was in large part down to Chinese consumers, who drove away the Nissan Teana saloon and Qashqai SUV in record numbers. Nissan's year-on-year sales in China for December were up 70% to 134,160.The figures are a snapshot of the lucrative ties between the world's third and second largest economies, which are currently embroiled in a potentially explosive dispute over some small islands and uninhabited rocks in the South China Sea.Production in China was also at a record high, with around 130,600 vehicles rolling off Nissan's assembly lines in the country.In Europe, Nissan's December's monthly sales rose 8.8% to 56,000 cars and vans. This reflects the recent industry-wide upturn in car sales across the continent after many countries saw purchases fall off a cliff during the recession. Acea, the association of european carmakers, said on Tuesday that it expects European car sales to grow by 2% in 2014, although they will remain well below their 2007 peak in most countries. In 2013, the UK bucked a trend for falling sales across the European Union, helped by easy credit.Nissan's global production also rose in December, although it made fewer cars in Japan. Total production was up 15% to almost 400,000 cars and vans compared to last year. In the UK, production declined, as the company reduced its output in readiness for the next version of the Qashqai. Nissan announced earlier this month that the workforce at its Sunderland plant will rise to 7,000 for the first time, as it takes on 500 new workers to begin rolling out the new Qashqai.Nissan's new London black cab is also to be assembled in Coventry, the company said this week, with a petrol version produced from December and an electric version expected next year.The vehicle will be shipped from Nissan's factory in Barcelona to ADV Manufacturing's plant in Coventry for final assembly, as part of a \u00a36m joint investment by the two firms.", "tags": ["Nissan", "Automotive industry", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Renault", "Business"], "title": "Nissan sales boom in China"},{"date": "2014-01-25T09:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "This is a fascinating, original fusion of Moby Dick, Greek myths, steampunk, literary theory, philosophy, dystopia, science fiction and adventure. The main character, Sham, is a moler on the railsea \u2013 a tangled network of tracks that crisscross the bare earth between various islands. In the earth live the burrowing animals that Sham and the crew hunt, including giant earwigs, rabbits, moles and, in particular, the ivory-coloured talpa ferox rex called Mockerjack, which Sham's captain is obsessed with killing.Mieville's love of words permeates the whole novel, and while it's not a read for the faint-hearted, anyone who perseveres through the first few pages will quickly adjust to the vocabulary. The reader is hurled straight into a fully realised and totally convincing futuristic world, somewhat reminiscent of Philip Reeve's Mortal Engines. Although some critics have labelled Mieville's use of ampersands (&) pretentious, I love how they reflect the twisting tracks of the railsea itself. Anyone who likes crazy imagination, brilliant characterisation, uplifting philosophy and, above all, gorgeous writing, should read this book.Want to tell the world about a book you've read? Join the site and send us your review!", "tags": ["Children and teenagers", "Books", "Culture", "Teen books", "Sci-fi (children and teens)"], "title": "Railsea by China Mieville - review"},{"date": "2014-03-25T22:00:51Z", "country": "china", "content": "China defeats yet another British retailer. This time it is Kingfisher that is following Tesco's example and seeking a local joint venture partner for its B&Q chain. The explanation is similar too: tough local competitors; problems in finding management; a different consumer culture, in this case an expectation that the retailer doesn't just sell the paint but also supplies the decorator.Sir Ian Cheshire, Kingfisher chief executive, can at least claim the Chinese retreat is honourable. Five years ago, when he was fresh in the job, losses in China were running at \u00a350m or so. A third of the stores have been closed since then and losses last year were reduced to \u00a36m.That is deemed sufficiently encouraging to justify seeking a partner for the long term, rather than exiting China altogether. That judgment looks reasonable. Mind you, it would also have been reasonable in 1999, when Kingfisher first took B&Q to China. In those days, China was seen as a land of easy profits for slick western retailers; they all know better now.Semi-resolution of the Chinese headache was one of several items in Cheshire's spring-clean. The 21% stake in German group Hornbach has been sold for \u00a3195m. And, as expected, Kingfisher will start to hand back excess capital to shareholders. There may be even be an outbreak a Lord Wolfson-style common sense of how the spoils are distributed. Rather than one big splurge, Kingfisher has opted for a \"multi-year programme,\" starting with \u00a3200m this financial year. A view on whether a buy-back or special dividend makes more economic sense will be made at the time \u2013 very sensible too.It was all enough to push the share price up 6% to 431p, at which level Kingfisher is valued at 18 times last year's earnings. For all the shareholder-friendly actions, that's not cheap. A stronger UK housing market will help, but profits in France are still treading water.", "tags": ["Kingfisher", "Business", "Retail industry", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "Kingfisher's retreat in China looks honourable | Nils Pratley"},{"date": "2014-03-14T15:25:51Z", "country": "china", "content": "Great Britain has always been an exporting nation. However, the economic challenges of recent years have meant that many small businesses have concentrated on day-to-day survival, rather than ambitious plans for global growth. But, there has never been a better time for these firms to shift their focus from the risks of export to the potential rewards it can bring.Exporting was a key pillar of my business, Tangle Teezer, from the word go. I had to overcome concerns about trading overseas as I knew the UK was never going to be a big enough market for us. However, the road to export can be a daunting one if you have never done it before. There are numerous hurdles to overcome, from practical considerations such as language barriers and marketing capabilities, to logistical worries about late payment and legalities. It's easy for firms to stick to their comfort zone and put export in the \"too difficult\" box. But, I'm a firm believer in seeing the opportunity instead of the challenge and think others should approach business with the same positivity.I'd encourage all small business leaders who aren't meeting their export potential to make the most of all of the help and expertise that's available to them. We accessed the expertise of UK Trade & Investment (UKTI) through the Passport to Export scheme. Passport to Export gave us the training, planning and ongoing support we needed to succeed in several territories. It helped us to identify and plan our expansion \u2013 particularly when it came to selecting partner organisations in foreign markets.One of the key factors in our success was embracing the potential of our product. Tangle Teezer suits all hair types, which is a challenge in some respects but it meant that the product knew no boundaries. That said we recognised that this one size fits all ethos couldn't be applied to our export strategy \u2013 every country is different. We needed to mine insights into different markets and tailor our approach accordingly.I'm not saying that export has always been plain sailing for us, like anything in business there are sometimes ups and downs. Take Germany, which proved to be surprisingly slow going in Tangle Teezer's early days. Few orders were coming from there and we were coming up against brick walls. This is where the support we received through Passport to Export was invaluable. We were able to turn the situation around and Germany is now one of our biggest markets. The first step was when the British Embassy in Berlin did some research for us and identified potential business partners. We then sent some Tangle Teezers to some celebrity hairdressers, bloggers, and top magazines in Germany. This worked like a dream. One magical day, Bild newspaper ran a big feature upon the British \"Wunderbrush!\" And then those customers identified by the British Embassy started calling us. In 2012 I was asked to speak at the British Ambassador's residence in Berlin about our success in Germany. I would not have believed that three years earlier, it just goes to show how quickly things can turn around.With the right knowledge, insight and support, small business can be confident in pursuing the potential that export has to offer. The benefits can be huge. According to official research conducted by the UKTI, exporting has a positive impact on business productivity, with 34% of companies who start exporting stating they were more productive in the first year alone. In addition, 85% of businesses said that exporting had led to a level of growth not otherwise possible.I can vouch for these benefits, I've seen business growth first hand. I started Tangle Teezer six years ago and we're now exporting to countries from The Netherlands (this was our first market) to China. In fact we were bigger in The Netherlands than we were in the UK in the early days. I remember the distributor calling me up from Rotterdam just after the Dragon's Den had aired in the UK, and he said \"I've seen you on the BBC, we'd like to distribute your brush.\" I had never imagined someone sitting at home in The Netherlands might be watching The Dragon's Den. Breaking into the China market was equally surprising. I started getting web orders from China in 2011. Just like that, up to 300 a day. It transpired that a famous Chinese model had bought a Tangle Teezer in Oxford Street and posted it on her blog in China. Boom! China is now our second biggest global market, nearly all sold online. There are 260 million Chinese consumers who shop online, and you can manage the whole of this huge market from a desk in the UK. Amazing. They love the \"Made in the UK\" stamp. The hub that the UK has provided for our global expansion has been fantastic.One piece of advice that I would give from my experience is that there isn't a barrier to export that can't be overcome with the right help and advice. It's not just UKTI that offers support; for example the British Chambers of Commerce provides lots of advice and training. Small businesses can also learn a lot from their peers, either through networking events or online communities like Open to Export. Yes, there are challenges - some of which can be very difficult to conquer \u2013 but small firms shouldn't let this stop them from achieving global growth.Shaun Pulfrey is founder and chief executive of Tangle Teezer LtdSign up to become a member of the Guardian Small Business Network here for more advice, insight and best practice direct to your inbox.", "tags": ["Exporting to new markets", "Guardian Small Business Network"], "title": "My breakthrough moment in China"},{"date": "2014-01-29T17:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Nissan's sales have hit an all-time high after Chinese consumers rediscovered their taste for Japanese cars.The Japanese company said it had sold almost 460,000 cars and vans in December, 15% more than last year and an all-time record. The boom was in large part down to Chinese consumers, who drove away the Nissan Teana saloon and Qashqai SUV in record numbers. Nissan's year-on-year sales in China for December were up 70% to 134,160.The figures are a snapshot of the lucrative ties between the world's third and second largest economies, which are currently embroiled in a potentially explosive dispute over some small islands and uninhabited rocks in the South China Sea.Production in China was also at a record high, with around 130,600 vehicles rolling off Nissan's assembly lines in the country.In Europe, Nissan's December's monthly sales rose 8.8% to 56,000 cars and vans. This reflects the recent industry-wide upturn in car sales across the continent after many countries saw purchases fall off a cliff during the recession. Acea, the association of european carmakers, said on Tuesday that it expects European car sales to grow by 2% in 2014, although they will remain well below their 2007 peak in most countries. In 2013, the UK bucked a trend for falling sales across the European Union, helped by easy credit.Nissan's global production also rose in December, although it made fewer cars in Japan. Total production was up 15% to almost 400,000 cars and vans compared to last year. In the UK, production declined, as the company reduced its output in readiness for the next version of the Qashqai. Nissan announced earlier this month that the workforce at its Sunderland plant will rise to 7,000 for the first time, as it takes on 500 new workers to begin rolling out the new Qashqai.Nissan's new London black cab is also to be assembled in Coventry, the company said this week, with a petrol version produced from December and an electric version expected next year.The vehicle will be shipped from Nissan's factory in Barcelona to ADV Manufacturing's plant in Coventry for final assembly, as part of a \u00a36m joint investment by the two firms.", "tags": ["Nissan", "Automotive industry", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Renault", "Business"], "title": "Nissan sales boom in China"},{"date": "2014-01-25T09:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "This is a fascinating, original fusion of Moby Dick, Greek myths, steampunk, literary theory, philosophy, dystopia, science fiction and adventure. The main character, Sham, is a moler on the railsea \u2013 a tangled network of tracks that crisscross the bare earth between various islands. In the earth live the burrowing animals that Sham and the crew hunt, including giant earwigs, rabbits, moles and, in particular, the ivory-coloured talpa ferox rex called Mockerjack, which Sham's captain is obsessed with killing.Mieville's love of words permeates the whole novel, and while it's not a read for the faint-hearted, anyone who perseveres through the first few pages will quickly adjust to the vocabulary. The reader is hurled straight into a fully realised and totally convincing futuristic world, somewhat reminiscent of Philip Reeve's Mortal Engines. Although some critics have labelled Mieville's use of ampersands (&) pretentious, I love how they reflect the twisting tracks of the railsea itself. Anyone who likes crazy imagination, brilliant characterisation, uplifting philosophy and, above all, gorgeous writing, should read this book.Want to tell the world about a book you've read? Join the site and send us your review!", "tags": ["Children and teenagers", "Books", "Culture", "Teen books", "Sci-fi (children and teens)"], "title": "Railsea by China Mieville - review"},{"date": "2014-03-25T22:00:51Z", "country": "china", "content": "China defeats yet another British retailer. This time it is Kingfisher that is following Tesco's example and seeking a local joint venture partner for its B&Q chain. The explanation is similar too: tough local competitors; problems in finding management; a different consumer culture, in this case an expectation that the retailer doesn't just sell the paint but also supplies the decorator.Sir Ian Cheshire, Kingfisher chief executive, can at least claim the Chinese retreat is honourable. Five years ago, when he was fresh in the job, losses in China were running at \u00a350m or so. A third of the stores have been closed since then and losses last year were reduced to \u00a36m.That is deemed sufficiently encouraging to justify seeking a partner for the long term, rather than exiting China altogether. That judgment looks reasonable. Mind you, it would also have been reasonable in 1999, when Kingfisher first took B&Q to China. In those days, China was seen as a land of easy profits for slick western retailers; they all know better now.Semi-resolution of the Chinese headache was one of several items in Cheshire's spring-clean. The 21% stake in German group Hornbach has been sold for \u00a3195m. And, as expected, Kingfisher will start to hand back excess capital to shareholders. There may be even be an outbreak a Lord Wolfson-style common sense of how the spoils are distributed. Rather than one big splurge, Kingfisher has opted for a \"multi-year programme,\" starting with \u00a3200m this financial year. A view on whether a buy-back or special dividend makes more economic sense will be made at the time \u2013 very sensible too.It was all enough to push the share price up 6% to 431p, at which level Kingfisher is valued at 18 times last year's earnings. For all the shareholder-friendly actions, that's not cheap. A stronger UK housing market will help, but profits in France are still treading water.", "tags": ["Kingfisher", "Business", "Retail industry", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "Kingfisher's retreat in China looks honourable | Nils Pratley"},{"date": "2014-03-15T17:14:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "China's state news agency has made its harshest attack yet on Malaysia's handling of the investigation into missing flight MH370, while Malaysian police searched the home of the plane's pilot.Xinhua said on Saturday that \"massive efforts have been squandered, and numerous rumours have been spawned, repeatedly racking the nerves of the awaiting families\".The report cited reluctance to share information \"in a full and timely manner\" which was intolerable for the relatives.Meanwhile Malaysian police searched the home of the pilot at the helm of the missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370, after the country's prime minister confirmed earlier on Saturday that the Boeing 777's communications were deliberately disabled by \"someone on the plane\".Police officers arrived at 53-year-old captain Zaharie Ahmad Shah's home on the outskirts of Kuala Lumpur shortly after the PM, Najib Razak, finished his dramatic press conference, during which he told reporters new satellite data indicated that MH370 last made contact roughly seven hours after it vanished from civilian radar one week ago.While the raw satellite footage has helped investigators determine that the plane was still flying long after it lost contact with air traffic control at 1.22am on Saturday 8 March with 239 people on board, it could not discern the aircraft's exact location, Najib said \u2013 putting it anywhere along two possible flight corridors: a northern corridor stretching from Kazakhstan, in central Asia, down to northern Thailand; and a southern corridor stretching from Indonesia towards the southern Indian Ocean.While authorities had initially focused their investigation on the missing plane on four possible explanations, including possible hijacking, sabotage, or the personal or psychological problems of the crew or passengers, the \"new information\" that had come to light was forcing investigators to rethink their strategy, Najib said.\"In view of this latest development, the Malaysian authorities have refocused their investigation into the crew and passengers on board,\" he told reporters on Saturday.The satellite data indicates that the plane was flying far longer than had been initially believed, and is likely to instigate what may be the biggest hunt ever for a missing plane. Some 14 countries, 43 ships and 58 aircraft are already involved in search and rescue efforts, but the two new flight corridors will necessitate the assistance of the countries underneath those corridors \u2013 including, possibly, Burma, Bangladesh, India, Pakistan, Kyrgyzstan, China, Nepal, Tajikistan and Afghanistan.The hunt for the plane will therefore require military and diplomatic co-operation as investigators attempt to piece together, through civilian, military and satellite data, what the exact fate of the missing jet may be.It is unclear if police had also begun searching the homes of the other 11 Malaysian crew on board, including co-pilot Fariq Abdul Hamid, 27, who is known to have entertained passengers on board a previous flight in the cockpit during a Phuket-Kuala Lumpur flight in 2011.Captain Zaharie joined Malaysia Airlines in 1981 and was known as an avid flight buff who had clocked in 18,365 flight hours. He had a penchant for toying around with miniature planes on weekends and, as a certified flight simulator test examiner, had built himself a flight simulator at home.Another report emerged on Saturday indicating that MH370 may have turned south towards the Indian Ocean, where it is believed to have last been identified 1,000 miles west of Perth in Australia, according to satellite \"pings\" that recorded the plane's data, Bloomberg reported.If the plane did continue northwards instead, towards central Asia, then it is unclear how it would have avoided being detected by Indian air control, whose radar coverage is likely to have intercepted the jet.While it is not clear how much fuel the Boeing-777 was holding, there would have been enough to fly it at cruising altitude to its scheduled destination, Beijing, a nearly six-hour flight. It is believed, however, the missing jet may have been flying at a higher altitude, which would have allowed it to carry on for longer.The news is likely to fuel further speculation over suspected terrorism although no person or group has come forward to disclose why the plane may have been hijacked, or if it even was.For some relatives of those missing, however, the news the plane was still flying at 8.11am last Saturday is an indication that there may be hope for their missing loved ones.\"It means there's still a chance my parents are alive,\" Eric Chen Zhi Yang, 15, told Malaysia's New Straits Times. Both his mother and father were on board MH370.", "tags": ["Malaysia Airlines flight MH370", "World news", "Malaysia", "Asia Pacific", "Air transport"], "title": "MH370: China attacks Malaysian search operation"},{"date": "2014-03-14T15:25:51Z", "country": "china", "content": "Great Britain has always been an exporting nation. However, the economic challenges of recent years have meant that many small businesses have concentrated on day-to-day survival, rather than ambitious plans for global growth. But, there has never been a better time for these firms to shift their focus from the risks of export to the potential rewards it can bring.Exporting was a key pillar of my business, Tangle Teezer, from the word go. I had to overcome concerns about trading overseas as I knew the UK was never going to be a big enough market for us. However, the road to export can be a daunting one if you have never done it before. There are numerous hurdles to overcome, from practical considerations such as language barriers and marketing capabilities, to logistical worries about late payment and legalities. It's easy for firms to stick to their comfort zone and put export in the \"too difficult\" box. But, I'm a firm believer in seeing the opportunity instead of the challenge and think others should approach business with the same positivity.I'd encourage all small business leaders who aren't meeting their export potential to make the most of all of the help and expertise that's available to them. We accessed the expertise of UK Trade & Investment (UKTI) through the Passport to Export scheme. Passport to Export gave us the training, planning and ongoing support we needed to succeed in several territories. It helped us to identify and plan our expansion \u2013 particularly when it came to selecting partner organisations in foreign markets.One of the key factors in our success was embracing the potential of our product. Tangle Teezer suits all hair types, which is a challenge in some respects but it meant that the product knew no boundaries. That said we recognised that this one size fits all ethos couldn't be applied to our export strategy \u2013 every country is different. We needed to mine insights into different markets and tailor our approach accordingly.I'm not saying that export has always been plain sailing for us, like anything in business there are sometimes ups and downs. Take Germany, which proved to be surprisingly slow going in Tangle Teezer's early days. Few orders were coming from there and we were coming up against brick walls. This is where the support we received through Passport to Export was invaluable. We were able to turn the situation around and Germany is now one of our biggest markets. The first step was when the British Embassy in Berlin did some research for us and identified potential business partners. We then sent some Tangle Teezers to some celebrity hairdressers, bloggers, and top magazines in Germany. This worked like a dream. One magical day, Bild newspaper ran a big feature upon the British \"Wunderbrush!\" And then those customers identified by the British Embassy started calling us. In 2012 I was asked to speak at the British Ambassador's residence in Berlin about our success in Germany. I would not have believed that three years earlier, it just goes to show how quickly things can turn around.With the right knowledge, insight and support, small business can be confident in pursuing the potential that export has to offer. The benefits can be huge. According to official research conducted by the UKTI, exporting has a positive impact on business productivity, with 34% of companies who start exporting stating they were more productive in the first year alone. In addition, 85% of businesses said that exporting had led to a level of growth not otherwise possible.I can vouch for these benefits, I've seen business growth first hand. I started Tangle Teezer six years ago and we're now exporting to countries from The Netherlands (this was our first market) to China. In fact we were bigger in The Netherlands than we were in the UK in the early days. I remember the distributor calling me up from Rotterdam just after the Dragon's Den had aired in the UK, and he said \"I've seen you on the BBC, we'd like to distribute your brush.\" I had never imagined someone sitting at home in The Netherlands might be watching The Dragon's Den. Breaking into the China market was equally surprising. I started getting web orders from China in 2011. Just like that, up to 300 a day. It transpired that a famous Chinese model had bought a Tangle Teezer in Oxford Street and posted it on her blog in China. Boom! China is now our second biggest global market, nearly all sold online. There are 260 million Chinese consumers who shop online, and you can manage the whole of this huge market from a desk in the UK. Amazing. They love the \"Made in the UK\" stamp. The hub that the UK has provided for our global expansion has been fantastic.One piece of advice that I would give from my experience is that there isn't a barrier to export that can't be overcome with the right help and advice. It's not just UKTI that offers support; for example the British Chambers of Commerce provides lots of advice and training. Small businesses can also learn a lot from their peers, either through networking events or online communities like Open to Export. Yes, there are challenges - some of which can be very difficult to conquer \u2013 but small firms shouldn't let this stop them from achieving global growth.Shaun Pulfrey is founder and chief executive of Tangle Teezer LtdSign up to become a member of the Guardian Small Business Network here for more advice, insight and best practice direct to your inbox.", "tags": ["Exporting to new markets", "Guardian Small Business Network"], "title": "My breakthrough moment in China"},{"date": "2014-01-29T17:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Nissan's sales have hit an all-time high after Chinese consumers rediscovered their taste for Japanese cars.The Japanese company said it had sold almost 460,000 cars and vans in December, 15% more than last year and an all-time record. The boom was in large part down to Chinese consumers, who drove away the Nissan Teana saloon and Qashqai SUV in record numbers. Nissan's year-on-year sales in China for December were up 70% to 134,160.The figures are a snapshot of the lucrative ties between the world's third and second largest economies, which are currently embroiled in a potentially explosive dispute over some small islands and uninhabited rocks in the South China Sea.Production in China was also at a record high, with around 130,600 vehicles rolling off Nissan's assembly lines in the country.In Europe, Nissan's December's monthly sales rose 8.8% to 56,000 cars and vans. This reflects the recent industry-wide upturn in car sales across the continent after many countries saw purchases fall off a cliff during the recession. Acea, the association of european carmakers, said on Tuesday that it expects European car sales to grow by 2% in 2014, although they will remain well below their 2007 peak in most countries. In 2013, the UK bucked a trend for falling sales across the European Union, helped by easy credit.Nissan's global production also rose in December, although it made fewer cars in Japan. Total production was up 15% to almost 400,000 cars and vans compared to last year. In the UK, production declined, as the company reduced its output in readiness for the next version of the Qashqai. Nissan announced earlier this month that the workforce at its Sunderland plant will rise to 7,000 for the first time, as it takes on 500 new workers to begin rolling out the new Qashqai.Nissan's new London black cab is also to be assembled in Coventry, the company said this week, with a petrol version produced from December and an electric version expected next year.The vehicle will be shipped from Nissan's factory in Barcelona to ADV Manufacturing's plant in Coventry for final assembly, as part of a \u00a36m joint investment by the two firms.", "tags": ["Nissan", "Automotive industry", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Renault", "Business"], "title": "Nissan sales boom in China"},{"date": "2014-01-25T09:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "This is a fascinating, original fusion of Moby Dick, Greek myths, steampunk, literary theory, philosophy, dystopia, science fiction and adventure. The main character, Sham, is a moler on the railsea \u2013 a tangled network of tracks that crisscross the bare earth between various islands. In the earth live the burrowing animals that Sham and the crew hunt, including giant earwigs, rabbits, moles and, in particular, the ivory-coloured talpa ferox rex called Mockerjack, which Sham's captain is obsessed with killing.Mieville's love of words permeates the whole novel, and while it's not a read for the faint-hearted, anyone who perseveres through the first few pages will quickly adjust to the vocabulary. The reader is hurled straight into a fully realised and totally convincing futuristic world, somewhat reminiscent of Philip Reeve's Mortal Engines. Although some critics have labelled Mieville's use of ampersands (&) pretentious, I love how they reflect the twisting tracks of the railsea itself. Anyone who likes crazy imagination, brilliant characterisation, uplifting philosophy and, above all, gorgeous writing, should read this book.Want to tell the world about a book you've read? Join the site and send us your review!", "tags": ["Children and teenagers", "Books", "Culture", "Teen books", "Sci-fi (children and teens)"], "title": "Railsea by China Mieville - review"},{"date": "2014-03-25T22:00:51Z", "country": "china", "content": "China defeats yet another British retailer. This time it is Kingfisher that is following Tesco's example and seeking a local joint venture partner for its B&Q chain. The explanation is similar too: tough local competitors; problems in finding management; a different consumer culture, in this case an expectation that the retailer doesn't just sell the paint but also supplies the decorator.Sir Ian Cheshire, Kingfisher chief executive, can at least claim the Chinese retreat is honourable. Five years ago, when he was fresh in the job, losses in China were running at \u00a350m or so. A third of the stores have been closed since then and losses last year were reduced to \u00a36m.That is deemed sufficiently encouraging to justify seeking a partner for the long term, rather than exiting China altogether. That judgment looks reasonable. Mind you, it would also have been reasonable in 1999, when Kingfisher first took B&Q to China. In those days, China was seen as a land of easy profits for slick western retailers; they all know better now.Semi-resolution of the Chinese headache was one of several items in Cheshire's spring-clean. The 21% stake in German group Hornbach has been sold for \u00a3195m. And, as expected, Kingfisher will start to hand back excess capital to shareholders. There may be even be an outbreak a Lord Wolfson-style common sense of how the spoils are distributed. Rather than one big splurge, Kingfisher has opted for a \"multi-year programme,\" starting with \u00a3200m this financial year. A view on whether a buy-back or special dividend makes more economic sense will be made at the time \u2013 very sensible too.It was all enough to push the share price up 6% to 431p, at which level Kingfisher is valued at 18 times last year's earnings. For all the shareholder-friendly actions, that's not cheap. A stronger UK housing market will help, but profits in France are still treading water.", "tags": ["Kingfisher", "Business", "Retail industry", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "Kingfisher's retreat in China looks honourable | Nils Pratley"},{"date": "2014-03-15T17:14:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "China's state news agency has made its harshest attack yet on Malaysia's handling of the investigation into missing flight MH370, while Malaysian police searched the home of the plane's pilot.Xinhua said on Saturday that \"massive efforts have been squandered, and numerous rumours have been spawned, repeatedly racking the nerves of the awaiting families\".The report cited reluctance to share information \"in a full and timely manner\" which was intolerable for the relatives.Meanwhile Malaysian police searched the home of the pilot at the helm of the missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370, after the country's prime minister confirmed earlier on Saturday that the Boeing 777's communications were deliberately disabled by \"someone on the plane\".Police officers arrived at 53-year-old captain Zaharie Ahmad Shah's home on the outskirts of Kuala Lumpur shortly after the PM, Najib Razak, finished his dramatic press conference, during which he told reporters new satellite data indicated that MH370 last made contact roughly seven hours after it vanished from civilian radar one week ago.While the raw satellite footage has helped investigators determine that the plane was still flying long after it lost contact with air traffic control at 1.22am on Saturday 8 March with 239 people on board, it could not discern the aircraft's exact location, Najib said \u2013 putting it anywhere along two possible flight corridors: a northern corridor stretching from Kazakhstan, in central Asia, down to northern Thailand; and a southern corridor stretching from Indonesia towards the southern Indian Ocean.While authorities had initially focused their investigation on the missing plane on four possible explanations, including possible hijacking, sabotage, or the personal or psychological problems of the crew or passengers, the \"new information\" that had come to light was forcing investigators to rethink their strategy, Najib said.\"In view of this latest development, the Malaysian authorities have refocused their investigation into the crew and passengers on board,\" he told reporters on Saturday.The satellite data indicates that the plane was flying far longer than had been initially believed, and is likely to instigate what may be the biggest hunt ever for a missing plane. Some 14 countries, 43 ships and 58 aircraft are already involved in search and rescue efforts, but the two new flight corridors will necessitate the assistance of the countries underneath those corridors \u2013 including, possibly, Burma, Bangladesh, India, Pakistan, Kyrgyzstan, China, Nepal, Tajikistan and Afghanistan.The hunt for the plane will therefore require military and diplomatic co-operation as investigators attempt to piece together, through civilian, military and satellite data, what the exact fate of the missing jet may be.It is unclear if police had also begun searching the homes of the other 11 Malaysian crew on board, including co-pilot Fariq Abdul Hamid, 27, who is known to have entertained passengers on board a previous flight in the cockpit during a Phuket-Kuala Lumpur flight in 2011.Captain Zaharie joined Malaysia Airlines in 1981 and was known as an avid flight buff who had clocked in 18,365 flight hours. He had a penchant for toying around with miniature planes on weekends and, as a certified flight simulator test examiner, had built himself a flight simulator at home.Another report emerged on Saturday indicating that MH370 may have turned south towards the Indian Ocean, where it is believed to have last been identified 1,000 miles west of Perth in Australia, according to satellite \"pings\" that recorded the plane's data, Bloomberg reported.If the plane did continue northwards instead, towards central Asia, then it is unclear how it would have avoided being detected by Indian air control, whose radar coverage is likely to have intercepted the jet.While it is not clear how much fuel the Boeing-777 was holding, there would have been enough to fly it at cruising altitude to its scheduled destination, Beijing, a nearly six-hour flight. It is believed, however, the missing jet may have been flying at a higher altitude, which would have allowed it to carry on for longer.The news is likely to fuel further speculation over suspected terrorism although no person or group has come forward to disclose why the plane may have been hijacked, or if it even was.For some relatives of those missing, however, the news the plane was still flying at 8.11am last Saturday is an indication that there may be hope for their missing loved ones.\"It means there's still a chance my parents are alive,\" Eric Chen Zhi Yang, 15, told Malaysia's New Straits Times. Both his mother and father were on board MH370.", "tags": ["Malaysia Airlines flight MH370", "World news", "Malaysia", "Asia Pacific", "Air transport"], "title": "MH370: China attacks Malaysian search operation"},{"date": "2014-03-14T09:32:55Z", "country": "china", "content": " Five people were hacked to death and one fatally shot at a market in the southern city of Changsha on Friday morning, according to local police.A fight between two peddlers ended when one stabbed the other to death, and \u201cin the process of fleeing,\u201d hacked at four pedestrians before police arrived and shot him dead on the scene, the Changsha public security bureau announced via its official microblog. Two victims died at the scene and the other two died in hospital.A Hunan traffic radio station said via its verified microblog feed that the man was a breadseller, and had worked at the market for three or four years. It added that a female vendor died in the incident. That was echoed by another journalist in Changsha, who said a row between vendors had spiralled. Local media reported that the attack took place near a primary school, which had kept its pupil inside as reports of the incident emerged.The @peopledaily_us Twitter feed of the official People\u2019s Daily said: \u201c4 dead, including one attacker gunned down by cops. Police captured 1 and 3 attackers at large.\u201dPhotographs circulated on social media, which appeared to match with photos of the location in official media, showed bodies lying on the ground.Another photograph circulating on social media showed a man with a moustache, wearing a sweater and shirt, being taken away by police.An official at the Hunan government propaganda office confirmed that fatalities and casualties had been reported but said he had no further details.A woman at the neighbourhood office said she could not comment as she was frightened of saying the wrong thing and spreading rumours.The incident comes after five assailants knifed passersby at Kunming train station without warning on 1 March, killing 29 and injuring many more. In that case the government has blamed separatists from the north-west region of Xinjiang.Additional research by Cecily Huang", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Deadly knife attack in China market"},{"date": "2014-03-14T15:25:51Z", "country": "china", "content": "Great Britain has always been an exporting nation. However, the economic challenges of recent years have meant that many small businesses have concentrated on day-to-day survival, rather than ambitious plans for global growth. But, there has never been a better time for these firms to shift their focus from the risks of export to the potential rewards it can bring.Exporting was a key pillar of my business, Tangle Teezer, from the word go. I had to overcome concerns about trading overseas as I knew the UK was never going to be a big enough market for us. However, the road to export can be a daunting one if you have never done it before. There are numerous hurdles to overcome, from practical considerations such as language barriers and marketing capabilities, to logistical worries about late payment and legalities. It's easy for firms to stick to their comfort zone and put export in the \"too difficult\" box. But, I'm a firm believer in seeing the opportunity instead of the challenge and think others should approach business with the same positivity.I'd encourage all small business leaders who aren't meeting their export potential to make the most of all of the help and expertise that's available to them. We accessed the expertise of UK Trade & Investment (UKTI) through the Passport to Export scheme. Passport to Export gave us the training, planning and ongoing support we needed to succeed in several territories. It helped us to identify and plan our expansion \u2013 particularly when it came to selecting partner organisations in foreign markets.One of the key factors in our success was embracing the potential of our product. Tangle Teezer suits all hair types, which is a challenge in some respects but it meant that the product knew no boundaries. That said we recognised that this one size fits all ethos couldn't be applied to our export strategy \u2013 every country is different. We needed to mine insights into different markets and tailor our approach accordingly.I'm not saying that export has always been plain sailing for us, like anything in business there are sometimes ups and downs. Take Germany, which proved to be surprisingly slow going in Tangle Teezer's early days. Few orders were coming from there and we were coming up against brick walls. This is where the support we received through Passport to Export was invaluable. We were able to turn the situation around and Germany is now one of our biggest markets. The first step was when the British Embassy in Berlin did some research for us and identified potential business partners. We then sent some Tangle Teezers to some celebrity hairdressers, bloggers, and top magazines in Germany. This worked like a dream. One magical day, Bild newspaper ran a big feature upon the British \"Wunderbrush!\" And then those customers identified by the British Embassy started calling us. In 2012 I was asked to speak at the British Ambassador's residence in Berlin about our success in Germany. I would not have believed that three years earlier, it just goes to show how quickly things can turn around.With the right knowledge, insight and support, small business can be confident in pursuing the potential that export has to offer. The benefits can be huge. According to official research conducted by the UKTI, exporting has a positive impact on business productivity, with 34% of companies who start exporting stating they were more productive in the first year alone. In addition, 85% of businesses said that exporting had led to a level of growth not otherwise possible.I can vouch for these benefits, I've seen business growth first hand. I started Tangle Teezer six years ago and we're now exporting to countries from The Netherlands (this was our first market) to China. In fact we were bigger in The Netherlands than we were in the UK in the early days. I remember the distributor calling me up from Rotterdam just after the Dragon's Den had aired in the UK, and he said \"I've seen you on the BBC, we'd like to distribute your brush.\" I had never imagined someone sitting at home in The Netherlands might be watching The Dragon's Den. Breaking into the China market was equally surprising. I started getting web orders from China in 2011. Just like that, up to 300 a day. It transpired that a famous Chinese model had bought a Tangle Teezer in Oxford Street and posted it on her blog in China. Boom! China is now our second biggest global market, nearly all sold online. There are 260 million Chinese consumers who shop online, and you can manage the whole of this huge market from a desk in the UK. Amazing. They love the \"Made in the UK\" stamp. The hub that the UK has provided for our global expansion has been fantastic.One piece of advice that I would give from my experience is that there isn't a barrier to export that can't be overcome with the right help and advice. It's not just UKTI that offers support; for example the British Chambers of Commerce provides lots of advice and training. Small businesses can also learn a lot from their peers, either through networking events or online communities like Open to Export. Yes, there are challenges - some of which can be very difficult to conquer \u2013 but small firms shouldn't let this stop them from achieving global growth.Shaun Pulfrey is founder and chief executive of Tangle Teezer LtdSign up to become a member of the Guardian Small Business Network here for more advice, insight and best practice direct to your inbox.", "tags": ["Exporting to new markets", "Guardian Small Business Network"], "title": "My breakthrough moment in China"},{"date": "2014-01-29T17:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Nissan's sales have hit an all-time high after Chinese consumers rediscovered their taste for Japanese cars.The Japanese company said it had sold almost 460,000 cars and vans in December, 15% more than last year and an all-time record. The boom was in large part down to Chinese consumers, who drove away the Nissan Teana saloon and Qashqai SUV in record numbers. Nissan's year-on-year sales in China for December were up 70% to 134,160.The figures are a snapshot of the lucrative ties between the world's third and second largest economies, which are currently embroiled in a potentially explosive dispute over some small islands and uninhabited rocks in the South China Sea.Production in China was also at a record high, with around 130,600 vehicles rolling off Nissan's assembly lines in the country.In Europe, Nissan's December's monthly sales rose 8.8% to 56,000 cars and vans. This reflects the recent industry-wide upturn in car sales across the continent after many countries saw purchases fall off a cliff during the recession. Acea, the association of european carmakers, said on Tuesday that it expects European car sales to grow by 2% in 2014, although they will remain well below their 2007 peak in most countries. In 2013, the UK bucked a trend for falling sales across the European Union, helped by easy credit.Nissan's global production also rose in December, although it made fewer cars in Japan. Total production was up 15% to almost 400,000 cars and vans compared to last year. In the UK, production declined, as the company reduced its output in readiness for the next version of the Qashqai. Nissan announced earlier this month that the workforce at its Sunderland plant will rise to 7,000 for the first time, as it takes on 500 new workers to begin rolling out the new Qashqai.Nissan's new London black cab is also to be assembled in Coventry, the company said this week, with a petrol version produced from December and an electric version expected next year.The vehicle will be shipped from Nissan's factory in Barcelona to ADV Manufacturing's plant in Coventry for final assembly, as part of a \u00a36m joint investment by the two firms.", "tags": ["Nissan", "Automotive industry", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Renault", "Business"], "title": "Nissan sales boom in China"},{"date": "2014-01-25T09:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "This is a fascinating, original fusion of Moby Dick, Greek myths, steampunk, literary theory, philosophy, dystopia, science fiction and adventure. The main character, Sham, is a moler on the railsea \u2013 a tangled network of tracks that crisscross the bare earth between various islands. In the earth live the burrowing animals that Sham and the crew hunt, including giant earwigs, rabbits, moles and, in particular, the ivory-coloured talpa ferox rex called Mockerjack, which Sham's captain is obsessed with killing.Mieville's love of words permeates the whole novel, and while it's not a read for the faint-hearted, anyone who perseveres through the first few pages will quickly adjust to the vocabulary. The reader is hurled straight into a fully realised and totally convincing futuristic world, somewhat reminiscent of Philip Reeve's Mortal Engines. Although some critics have labelled Mieville's use of ampersands (&) pretentious, I love how they reflect the twisting tracks of the railsea itself. Anyone who likes crazy imagination, brilliant characterisation, uplifting philosophy and, above all, gorgeous writing, should read this book.Want to tell the world about a book you've read? Join the site and send us your review!", "tags": ["Children and teenagers", "Books", "Culture", "Teen books", "Sci-fi (children and teens)"], "title": "Railsea by China Mieville - review"},{"date": "2014-03-25T22:00:51Z", "country": "china", "content": "China defeats yet another British retailer. This time it is Kingfisher that is following Tesco's example and seeking a local joint venture partner for its B&Q chain. The explanation is similar too: tough local competitors; problems in finding management; a different consumer culture, in this case an expectation that the retailer doesn't just sell the paint but also supplies the decorator.Sir Ian Cheshire, Kingfisher chief executive, can at least claim the Chinese retreat is honourable. Five years ago, when he was fresh in the job, losses in China were running at \u00a350m or so. A third of the stores have been closed since then and losses last year were reduced to \u00a36m.That is deemed sufficiently encouraging to justify seeking a partner for the long term, rather than exiting China altogether. That judgment looks reasonable. Mind you, it would also have been reasonable in 1999, when Kingfisher first took B&Q to China. In those days, China was seen as a land of easy profits for slick western retailers; they all know better now.Semi-resolution of the Chinese headache was one of several items in Cheshire's spring-clean. The 21% stake in German group Hornbach has been sold for \u00a3195m. And, as expected, Kingfisher will start to hand back excess capital to shareholders. There may be even be an outbreak a Lord Wolfson-style common sense of how the spoils are distributed. Rather than one big splurge, Kingfisher has opted for a \"multi-year programme,\" starting with \u00a3200m this financial year. A view on whether a buy-back or special dividend makes more economic sense will be made at the time \u2013 very sensible too.It was all enough to push the share price up 6% to 431p, at which level Kingfisher is valued at 18 times last year's earnings. For all the shareholder-friendly actions, that's not cheap. A stronger UK housing market will help, but profits in France are still treading water.", "tags": ["Kingfisher", "Business", "Retail industry", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "Kingfisher's retreat in China looks honourable | Nils Pratley"},{"date": "2014-03-15T17:14:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "China's state news agency has made its harshest attack yet on Malaysia's handling of the investigation into missing flight MH370, while Malaysian police searched the home of the plane's pilot.Xinhua said on Saturday that \"massive efforts have been squandered, and numerous rumours have been spawned, repeatedly racking the nerves of the awaiting families\".The report cited reluctance to share information \"in a full and timely manner\" which was intolerable for the relatives.Meanwhile Malaysian police searched the home of the pilot at the helm of the missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370, after the country's prime minister confirmed earlier on Saturday that the Boeing 777's communications were deliberately disabled by \"someone on the plane\".Police officers arrived at 53-year-old captain Zaharie Ahmad Shah's home on the outskirts of Kuala Lumpur shortly after the PM, Najib Razak, finished his dramatic press conference, during which he told reporters new satellite data indicated that MH370 last made contact roughly seven hours after it vanished from civilian radar one week ago.While the raw satellite footage has helped investigators determine that the plane was still flying long after it lost contact with air traffic control at 1.22am on Saturday 8 March with 239 people on board, it could not discern the aircraft's exact location, Najib said \u2013 putting it anywhere along two possible flight corridors: a northern corridor stretching from Kazakhstan, in central Asia, down to northern Thailand; and a southern corridor stretching from Indonesia towards the southern Indian Ocean.While authorities had initially focused their investigation on the missing plane on four possible explanations, including possible hijacking, sabotage, or the personal or psychological problems of the crew or passengers, the \"new information\" that had come to light was forcing investigators to rethink their strategy, Najib said.\"In view of this latest development, the Malaysian authorities have refocused their investigation into the crew and passengers on board,\" he told reporters on Saturday.The satellite data indicates that the plane was flying far longer than had been initially believed, and is likely to instigate what may be the biggest hunt ever for a missing plane. Some 14 countries, 43 ships and 58 aircraft are already involved in search and rescue efforts, but the two new flight corridors will necessitate the assistance of the countries underneath those corridors \u2013 including, possibly, Burma, Bangladesh, India, Pakistan, Kyrgyzstan, China, Nepal, Tajikistan and Afghanistan.The hunt for the plane will therefore require military and diplomatic co-operation as investigators attempt to piece together, through civilian, military and satellite data, what the exact fate of the missing jet may be.It is unclear if police had also begun searching the homes of the other 11 Malaysian crew on board, including co-pilot Fariq Abdul Hamid, 27, who is known to have entertained passengers on board a previous flight in the cockpit during a Phuket-Kuala Lumpur flight in 2011.Captain Zaharie joined Malaysia Airlines in 1981 and was known as an avid flight buff who had clocked in 18,365 flight hours. He had a penchant for toying around with miniature planes on weekends and, as a certified flight simulator test examiner, had built himself a flight simulator at home.Another report emerged on Saturday indicating that MH370 may have turned south towards the Indian Ocean, where it is believed to have last been identified 1,000 miles west of Perth in Australia, according to satellite \"pings\" that recorded the plane's data, Bloomberg reported.If the plane did continue northwards instead, towards central Asia, then it is unclear how it would have avoided being detected by Indian air control, whose radar coverage is likely to have intercepted the jet.While it is not clear how much fuel the Boeing-777 was holding, there would have been enough to fly it at cruising altitude to its scheduled destination, Beijing, a nearly six-hour flight. It is believed, however, the missing jet may have been flying at a higher altitude, which would have allowed it to carry on for longer.The news is likely to fuel further speculation over suspected terrorism although no person or group has come forward to disclose why the plane may have been hijacked, or if it even was.For some relatives of those missing, however, the news the plane was still flying at 8.11am last Saturday is an indication that there may be hope for their missing loved ones.\"It means there's still a chance my parents are alive,\" Eric Chen Zhi Yang, 15, told Malaysia's New Straits Times. Both his mother and father were on board MH370.", "tags": ["Malaysia Airlines flight MH370", "World news", "Malaysia", "Asia Pacific", "Air transport"], "title": "MH370: China attacks Malaysian search operation"},{"date": "2014-03-14T09:32:55Z", "country": "china", "content": " Five people were hacked to death and one fatally shot at a market in the southern city of Changsha on Friday morning, according to local police.A fight between two peddlers ended when one stabbed the other to death, and \u201cin the process of fleeing,\u201d hacked at four pedestrians before police arrived and shot him dead on the scene, the Changsha public security bureau announced via its official microblog. Two victims died at the scene and the other two died in hospital.A Hunan traffic radio station said via its verified microblog feed that the man was a breadseller, and had worked at the market for three or four years. It added that a female vendor died in the incident. That was echoed by another journalist in Changsha, who said a row between vendors had spiralled. Local media reported that the attack took place near a primary school, which had kept its pupil inside as reports of the incident emerged.The @peopledaily_us Twitter feed of the official People\u2019s Daily said: \u201c4 dead, including one attacker gunned down by cops. Police captured 1 and 3 attackers at large.\u201dPhotographs circulated on social media, which appeared to match with photos of the location in official media, showed bodies lying on the ground.Another photograph circulating on social media showed a man with a moustache, wearing a sweater and shirt, being taken away by police.An official at the Hunan government propaganda office confirmed that fatalities and casualties had been reported but said he had no further details.A woman at the neighbourhood office said she could not comment as she was frightened of saying the wrong thing and spreading rumours.The incident comes after five assailants knifed passersby at Kunming train station without warning on 1 March, killing 29 and injuring many more. In that case the government has blamed separatists from the north-west region of Xinjiang.Additional research by Cecily Huang", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Deadly knife attack in China market"},{"date": "2014-03-02T18:42:40Z", "country": "china", "content": "While Beijing blames a handful of separatists with overseas support for incidents such as Saturday's horrific attacks in Kunming, analysts and exile groups point to a long history of tension between Chinese authorities and the Muslim Uighur ethnic minority who make up more than 40% of the population in Xinjiang province.The intended remedies of aggressive economic development and tighter controls \u2013 the security budget has quadrupled to $1bn since 2009 and religious restrictions have increased \u2013 have not prevented repeated outbreaks of violence in the north-western region and beyond. Many analysts suggest they have exacerbated the problem.Clashes and attacks in the late 1990s appeared to have been suppressed by a government crackdown. But days before the Beijing Olympics opened in 2008, 16 border police officers were killed in an attack in Kashgar. The following year almost 200 died when Uighurs in Urumqi assaulted Han Chinese and Han launched revenge attacks.Since then, unrest has escalated and intensified, with more than 100 people dying in the last year alone. For the Chinese government, such incidents are proof of a sophisticated, systematic and far-reaching terrorist network intent on creating a separate state of East Turkestan.Magnus Ranstorp, of the Swedish National Defence College, said it was possible that attackers in Kunming might have drawn tactical inspiration from overseas, but the interaction of Uighur militants with foreign groups had been limited. Nor did foreign terrorist organisations appear particularly interested in the region.Wang Lixiong, a Han Chinese writer well known for his writings on ethnic policy, asked why the terrorist attacks had increased given the security crackdown. \"Mao Zedong said there is no hate without reason. What does result in the hate from Xinjiang?\" he wrote.Others suggest that accelerated development from 2009 \u2013 partly due to wider stimulus measures and a belief that raising incomes would reduce dissatisfaction \u2013 has backfired. Andrew Fischer, an expert on development in minority areas of western China at Erasmus University Rotterdam, said: \"The government says 'we are doing everything we can to help them and raise incomes', but the policies that do that might actually create a lot of discontent among the population.\"Breakneck development has caused friction across China, with communities often chafing at forced demolitions and changing environments. In Xinjiang, \"it exacerbates ethnic tensions because of who funds the development, who gives permission for demolition of old towns or handles the movements of population,\" said Fischer.Many in the Uighur community feel they have not benefited, pointing out that Han are far more likely to have white-collar jobs. Others feel that an influx of migrants to the region is eroding their culture. Officials have argued that expanding Chinese-language education will give people a better chance against Han competitors in the job market. But that has also increased concerns about the erosion of Uighur language and culture.In recent years, a growing number of Chinese scholars have suggested that China should recast its policy on ethnic minorities entirely. But Fischer said that would be likely to entrench the movement towards an increasingly assimilationist policy. \"I think there's a powder keg there. It is an extremely pressurised situation,\" he said.\u2022 This article was amended on 3 March 2014. An earlier version misspelled Andrew Fischer's name in the first instance as Andrew Fisher.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "Breakneck development exacerbates ethnic tensions in China"},{"date": "2014-04-25T15:58:25Z", "country": "china", "content": "Chinese legislators have passed the first amendments to the country\u2019s environmental protection law in 25 years, promising greater powers forenvironmental authorities and harsher punishments for polluters.The amendments, which the Standing Committee of National People\u2019sCongress passed on Thursday after two years of debate, will allowauthorities to detain company bosses for 15 days if they do notcomplete environmental impact assessments or ignore warnings to stoppolluting. The new law will come into practice on 1 January.Since China\u2019s environmental protection law was passed in 1989, thecountry has become the world\u2019s second-largest economy and its biggestcarbon emitter; decades of breakneck economic growth have left many of its rivers desiccated and its cities perennially shrouded in smog.Over the past year, the Chinese government has begun to emphasiseenvironmental protection in its official rhetoric. The new law \u201csetsenvironmental protection as the country\u2019s basic policy,\u201d state news agency Xinhua reported.At an annual parliamentary meeting in March, premier Li Keqiang saidthat the government will \u201cresolutely declare war against pollution aswe declared war against poverty\u201d.Yet environmental groups say that China\u2019s greatest environmentalproblems arise from a gap between legislation and implementation.\u201cIf you look at China\u2019s air pollution or water pollution control laws,they\u2019re pretty good compared to global standards,\u201d said Ma Tianjie,program director for mainland work at Greenpeace East Asia. \u201cBut nomatter how good [the laws] look on paper, the true test will always bethe willingness of local authorities to enforce them.\u201dThe amended law will remove limits on fines for polluting factories,which are currently so low that many enterprises prefer to pay themthan take long-term anti-pollution measures. It will also encourage\u201cstudies on the impact environmental quality causes on public health,urging prevention and control of pollution-related diseases,\u201d Xinhuareported.\u201cLocal officials may be demoted or sacked, if they are guilty ofmisconduct, including covering up environment-related wrongdoing,\u201d the newswire reported. \u201cIf offenders' behaviors constitute crimes, theywill be held criminally responsible.\u201dThis month, Chinese environmental researchers concluded that nearly60% of the country\u2019s groundwater quality is either \u201crelatively poor\u201dor \u201cvery poor\u201d. A separate official report claimed that 16% of thecountry\u2019s land is polluted, some of it with chemicals such as arsenicand mercury. Earlier this month, dangerous levels of the carcinogenicchemical benzene were detected in the northwestern city Lanzhou\u2019swater supply, triggering a run on bottled water.Reducing the country\u2019s noxious smog has also become a challenge forgrowth-minded local officials. On Thursday, the UK shadow climate change minister Baroness Byrony Worthington led a well-attended \"trainingcourse\" for Chinese mayors on strategies for combatting air pollution.\u201cEvery single person we\u2019ve met so far has mentioned the words, \u2018smoggy weather,\u2019\u201d said Worthington, who is on a four-day trip to Chinarepresenting Globe International, an organisation of legislatorsfocused on sustainable development. \u201cThey fear that the external worldis pointing and laughing at this stage which China\u2019s environment hasreached \u2013 it\u2019s a kind of loss of face.\u201d", "tags": ["Pollution", "Environment", "China", "World news", "Greenhouse gas emissions"], "title": "China strengthens environmental laws"},{"date": "2014-04-25T15:58:25Z", "country": "china", "content": "Chinese legislators have passed the first amendments to the country\u2019s environmental protection law in 25 years, promising greater powers forenvironmental authorities and harsher punishments for polluters.The amendments, which the Standing Committee of National People\u2019sCongress passed on Thursday after two years of debate, will allowauthorities to detain company bosses for 15 days if they do notcomplete environmental impact assessments or ignore warnings to stoppolluting. The new law will come into practice on 1 January.Since China\u2019s environmental protection law was passed in 1989, thecountry has become the world\u2019s second-largest economy and its biggestcarbon emitter; decades of breakneck economic growth have left many of its rivers desiccated and its cities perennially shrouded in smog.Over the past year, the Chinese government has begun to emphasiseenvironmental protection in its official rhetoric. The new law \u201csetsenvironmental protection as the country\u2019s basic policy,\u201d state news agency Xinhua reported.At an annual parliamentary meeting in March, premier Li Keqiang saidthat the government will \u201cresolutely declare war against pollution aswe declared war against poverty\u201d.Yet environmental groups say that China\u2019s greatest environmentalproblems arise from a gap between legislation and implementation.\u201cIf you look at China\u2019s air pollution or water pollution control laws,they\u2019re pretty good compared to global standards,\u201d said Ma Tianjie,program director for mainland work at Greenpeace East Asia. \u201cBut nomatter how good [the laws] look on paper, the true test will always bethe willingness of local authorities to enforce them.\u201dThe amended law will remove limits on fines for polluting factories,which are currently so low that many enterprises prefer to pay themthan take long-term anti-pollution measures. It will also encourage\u201cstudies on the impact environmental quality causes on public health,urging prevention and control of pollution-related diseases,\u201d Xinhuareported.\u201cLocal officials may be demoted or sacked, if they are guilty ofmisconduct, including covering up environment-related wrongdoing,\u201d the newswire reported. \u201cIf offenders' behaviors constitute crimes, theywill be held criminally responsible.\u201dThis month, Chinese environmental researchers concluded that nearly60% of the country\u2019s groundwater quality is either \u201crelatively poor\u201dor \u201cvery poor\u201d. A separate official report claimed that 16% of thecountry\u2019s land is polluted, some of it with chemicals such as arsenicand mercury. Earlier this month, dangerous levels of the carcinogenicchemical benzene were detected in the northwestern city Lanzhou\u2019swater supply, triggering a run on bottled water.Reducing the country\u2019s noxious smog has also become a challenge forgrowth-minded local officials. On Thursday, the UK shadow climate change minister Baroness Byrony Worthington led a well-attended \"trainingcourse\" for Chinese mayors on strategies for combatting air pollution.\u201cEvery single person we\u2019ve met so far has mentioned the words, \u2018smoggy weather,\u2019\u201d said Worthington, who is on a four-day trip to Chinarepresenting Globe International, an organisation of legislatorsfocused on sustainable development. \u201cThey fear that the external worldis pointing and laughing at this stage which China\u2019s environment hasreached \u2013 it\u2019s a kind of loss of face.\u201d", "tags": ["Pollution", "Environment", "China", "World news", "Greenhouse gas emissions"], "title": "China strengthens environmental laws"},{"date": "2014-06-06T00:11:30Z", "country": "china", "content": "The 2014 Lowy Institute Poll, released this week, demonstrates that when it comes to China, Australians feel very conflicted.On the one hand, Australians\u2019 feelings towards China are as warm as they have ever been in 10 years of Lowy Institute polling. Remarkably, Australians believe that China has as much of a claim to the title of \"Australia\u2019s best friend in Asia\" as Japan has \u2013 and a greater claim than Singapore, Indonesia, India or South Korea.On the other hand, nearly half (48%) of Australians believe it is likely that China will become a military threat to Australia in the next 20 years. More than half (56%) believe the government allows too much foreign investment from China.And China\u2019s powerful new leader, president Xi Jinping, hardly registers in the Australian public consciousness. When asked to rate a series of world leaders, only 2% of Australians said they admired Xi a lot, and 15% admired him a little. A full 64% did not know of Xi or had no view of him.It is remarkable that so many Australians believe we may soon be threatened militarily by a country that many of us today see as our best friend in Asia. But it is also understandable that Australia and China should not have a complete meeting of the minds. On the one hand, there is much for Australians to admire about China\u2019s development. In the past three decades, China has remade its economy, driven extraordinary productivity increases, and in so doing raised hundreds of millions of people out of poverty. This last achievement should not be ignored by China\u2019s critics.China\u2019s economic growth and its appetite for natural resources has, of course, put a good deal of money into Australians\u2019 pockets in recent years. Increasingly, flows of trade and investment flows are being matched by flows of people, as Australian and Chinese tourists discover each others\u2019 countries.On the other hand, our two countries remain starkly different. There are limits to the level of intimacy that can be achieved between a democracy and a non-democracy. This week\u2019s anniversary of Tiananmen Square is a reminder that internal conditions in China have the potential to derail the bilateral relationship.Furthermore, China\u2019s external behaviour has taken a more assertive turn of late. Last year, China unilaterally announced an air defence identification zone over the East China Sea, provoking strong responses from Australia and other countries. In early February, Chinese warships conducted their first military exercises in the waters immediately to Australia\u2019s north.Given the uncertainty about China\u2019s future behaviour, it makes good sense for us to invest in our alliance with the United States and encourage its \"rebalance\" towards Asia. But this does not mean we should run down our relationship with China; on the contrary, we should thicken it.What can we do to take the Australia-China relationship to the next level?The strategic partnership delivered by former prime minister Julia Gillard in 2013 was a good start. Australian and Chinese political leaders do not know each other well enough. Now Australian and Chinese leaders are due to hold annual meetings each year and Cabinet-level strategic dialogues on foreign policy and economics are also meant to take place. The Lowy Institute has long argued for this kind of arrangements to build trust between the political elites of the two countries.In April, prime minister Tony Abbott pulled off a successful visit to Beijing. Taking a leaf from John Howard\u2019s book, he stayed away from human rights and focused instead on areas of common interest, in particular economic ties. He was assisted by the professionalism showed by Australian agencies in the search for MH370 \u2013 a topic in which the Chinese leadership is intensely interested.This November, president Xi is due to visit to Australia in November for the G20 Leaders Summit. Hopefully he will stay for longer than the summit, and see more of Australia than Brisbane.When it comes to Asian security, Canberra needs to walk a fine line. We should not get caught up in bilateral disputes in which we cannot make a material difference \u2013 but we should not back off from defending our own interests and values. I have never heard a sinologist say that the one thing the Chinese respect is weakness.The worst thing we could do is lead the Chinese to believe we will pre-emptively downgrade our alliance relationship with Washington in order to curry favour with Beijing. That is never going to happen and any hints to the contrary will only lead to disappointment down the track. China appreciates clarity and consistency in its relations with other countries, and Australia owes it no less than that.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Australian politics", "China", "Foreign policy", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Are Australia and China frenemies? | Michael Fullilove"},{"date": "2014-04-25T15:58:25Z", "country": "china", "content": "Chinese legislators have passed the first amendments to the country\u2019s environmental protection law in 25 years, promising greater powers forenvironmental authorities and harsher punishments for polluters.The amendments, which the Standing Committee of National People\u2019sCongress passed on Thursday after two years of debate, will allowauthorities to detain company bosses for 15 days if they do notcomplete environmental impact assessments or ignore warnings to stoppolluting. The new law will come into practice on 1 January.Since China\u2019s environmental protection law was passed in 1989, thecountry has become the world\u2019s second-largest economy and its biggestcarbon emitter; decades of breakneck economic growth have left many of its rivers desiccated and its cities perennially shrouded in smog.Over the past year, the Chinese government has begun to emphasiseenvironmental protection in its official rhetoric. The new law \u201csetsenvironmental protection as the country\u2019s basic policy,\u201d state news agency Xinhua reported.At an annual parliamentary meeting in March, premier Li Keqiang saidthat the government will \u201cresolutely declare war against pollution aswe declared war against poverty\u201d.Yet environmental groups say that China\u2019s greatest environmentalproblems arise from a gap between legislation and implementation.\u201cIf you look at China\u2019s air pollution or water pollution control laws,they\u2019re pretty good compared to global standards,\u201d said Ma Tianjie,program director for mainland work at Greenpeace East Asia. \u201cBut nomatter how good [the laws] look on paper, the true test will always bethe willingness of local authorities to enforce them.\u201dThe amended law will remove limits on fines for polluting factories,which are currently so low that many enterprises prefer to pay themthan take long-term anti-pollution measures. It will also encourage\u201cstudies on the impact environmental quality causes on public health,urging prevention and control of pollution-related diseases,\u201d Xinhuareported.\u201cLocal officials may be demoted or sacked, if they are guilty ofmisconduct, including covering up environment-related wrongdoing,\u201d the newswire reported. \u201cIf offenders' behaviors constitute crimes, theywill be held criminally responsible.\u201dThis month, Chinese environmental researchers concluded that nearly60% of the country\u2019s groundwater quality is either \u201crelatively poor\u201dor \u201cvery poor\u201d. A separate official report claimed that 16% of thecountry\u2019s land is polluted, some of it with chemicals such as arsenicand mercury. Earlier this month, dangerous levels of the carcinogenicchemical benzene were detected in the northwestern city Lanzhou\u2019swater supply, triggering a run on bottled water.Reducing the country\u2019s noxious smog has also become a challenge forgrowth-minded local officials. On Thursday, the UK shadow climate change minister Baroness Byrony Worthington led a well-attended \"trainingcourse\" for Chinese mayors on strategies for combatting air pollution.\u201cEvery single person we\u2019ve met so far has mentioned the words, \u2018smoggy weather,\u2019\u201d said Worthington, who is on a four-day trip to Chinarepresenting Globe International, an organisation of legislatorsfocused on sustainable development. \u201cThey fear that the external worldis pointing and laughing at this stage which China\u2019s environment hasreached \u2013 it\u2019s a kind of loss of face.\u201d", "tags": ["Pollution", "Environment", "China", "World news", "Greenhouse gas emissions"], "title": "China strengthens environmental laws"},{"date": "2014-06-06T00:11:30Z", "country": "china", "content": "The 2014 Lowy Institute Poll, released this week, demonstrates that when it comes to China, Australians feel very conflicted.On the one hand, Australians\u2019 feelings towards China are as warm as they have ever been in 10 years of Lowy Institute polling. Remarkably, Australians believe that China has as much of a claim to the title of \"Australia\u2019s best friend in Asia\" as Japan has \u2013 and a greater claim than Singapore, Indonesia, India or South Korea.On the other hand, nearly half (48%) of Australians believe it is likely that China will become a military threat to Australia in the next 20 years. More than half (56%) believe the government allows too much foreign investment from China.And China\u2019s powerful new leader, president Xi Jinping, hardly registers in the Australian public consciousness. When asked to rate a series of world leaders, only 2% of Australians said they admired Xi a lot, and 15% admired him a little. A full 64% did not know of Xi or had no view of him.It is remarkable that so many Australians believe we may soon be threatened militarily by a country that many of us today see as our best friend in Asia. But it is also understandable that Australia and China should not have a complete meeting of the minds. On the one hand, there is much for Australians to admire about China\u2019s development. In the past three decades, China has remade its economy, driven extraordinary productivity increases, and in so doing raised hundreds of millions of people out of poverty. This last achievement should not be ignored by China\u2019s critics.China\u2019s economic growth and its appetite for natural resources has, of course, put a good deal of money into Australians\u2019 pockets in recent years. Increasingly, flows of trade and investment flows are being matched by flows of people, as Australian and Chinese tourists discover each others\u2019 countries.On the other hand, our two countries remain starkly different. There are limits to the level of intimacy that can be achieved between a democracy and a non-democracy. This week\u2019s anniversary of Tiananmen Square is a reminder that internal conditions in China have the potential to derail the bilateral relationship.Furthermore, China\u2019s external behaviour has taken a more assertive turn of late. Last year, China unilaterally announced an air defence identification zone over the East China Sea, provoking strong responses from Australia and other countries. In early February, Chinese warships conducted their first military exercises in the waters immediately to Australia\u2019s north.Given the uncertainty about China\u2019s future behaviour, it makes good sense for us to invest in our alliance with the United States and encourage its \"rebalance\" towards Asia. But this does not mean we should run down our relationship with China; on the contrary, we should thicken it.What can we do to take the Australia-China relationship to the next level?The strategic partnership delivered by former prime minister Julia Gillard in 2013 was a good start. Australian and Chinese political leaders do not know each other well enough. Now Australian and Chinese leaders are due to hold annual meetings each year and Cabinet-level strategic dialogues on foreign policy and economics are also meant to take place. The Lowy Institute has long argued for this kind of arrangements to build trust between the political elites of the two countries.In April, prime minister Tony Abbott pulled off a successful visit to Beijing. Taking a leaf from John Howard\u2019s book, he stayed away from human rights and focused instead on areas of common interest, in particular economic ties. He was assisted by the professionalism showed by Australian agencies in the search for MH370 \u2013 a topic in which the Chinese leadership is intensely interested.This November, president Xi is due to visit to Australia in November for the G20 Leaders Summit. Hopefully he will stay for longer than the summit, and see more of Australia than Brisbane.When it comes to Asian security, Canberra needs to walk a fine line. We should not get caught up in bilateral disputes in which we cannot make a material difference \u2013 but we should not back off from defending our own interests and values. I have never heard a sinologist say that the one thing the Chinese respect is weakness.The worst thing we could do is lead the Chinese to believe we will pre-emptively downgrade our alliance relationship with Washington in order to curry favour with Beijing. That is never going to happen and any hints to the contrary will only lead to disappointment down the track. China appreciates clarity and consistency in its relations with other countries, and Australia owes it no less than that.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Australian politics", "China", "Foreign policy", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Are Australia and China frenemies? | Michael Fullilove"},{"date": "2014-06-12T07:45:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "While promoting Disney hit Maleficent in Shanghai, Angelina Jolie has upset some Chinese people by naming her favourite Chinese director as Ang Lee, who was born in Taiwan.\"I am not sure if you consider Ang Lee Chinese, he's Taiwanese, but he does many Chinese-language films with many Chinese artists and actors,\" Jolie said. \"I think his works and the actors in his films are the ones I am most familiar with and very fond of.\"By suggesting that Taiwan and China are totally separate countries, Jolie has angered Chinese communists who feel that Taiwan is a rogue state that belongs to the People's Republic of China (PRC). Taiwan is instead governed by the Republic of China, who were ousted from governing the whole of China in 1949; the PRC doesn't recognise its sovereignty, and claims Taiwan as its own province. Relations are frosty but calm between the two powers, but culturally there remain deep divisions.\"In a moment of excitement, a brilliant woman became a stupid laughing stock,\" wrote one user of social media service Weibo, while another described her as a \"deranged Taiwan independence supporter\". Another suggested that anyone seeing Maleficent would be \"traitorious\". In Taiwan meanwhile, she received support, with one person writing: \"Her comment about Ang Lee being Taiwanese shows she fully deserves to be the goodwill ambassador for the UN. She is not afraid to tell the truth.\"Her husband Brad Pitt also faced the ire of China after he appeared in the film Seven Years in Tibet, which gave a sympathetic portrayal of the Dalai Lama, who repudiated China's ownership of the region. Pitt was allegedly placed on a travel blacklist that banned him from visiting the country (along with Martin Scorsese following his Tibet film Kundun), though he accompanied Jolie on her current promotional trip.Jolie also appeared in London this week at the End Sexual Violence in Conflict summit, where she met with victims of rape. \"I've met survivors and spent time with them. I'd heard their stories and became very emotionally involved and I thought, What can I possibly do to help?\" she told Women's Hour on Radio 4. Jolie founded the Preventing Sexual Violence Initiative with foreign secretary William Hague in 2012, and the pair will now launch a set of guidance notes on how to strengthen prosecutions in rape cases from conflict regions.", "tags": ["Maleficent", "Angelina Jolie", "Film", "China", "Taiwan", "Culture"], "title": "Angelina Jolie angers Chinese nationalists with Taiwan comments"},{"date": "2014-04-25T15:58:25Z", "country": "china", "content": "Chinese legislators have passed the first amendments to the country\u2019s environmental protection law in 25 years, promising greater powers forenvironmental authorities and harsher punishments for polluters.The amendments, which the Standing Committee of National People\u2019sCongress passed on Thursday after two years of debate, will allowauthorities to detain company bosses for 15 days if they do notcomplete environmental impact assessments or ignore warnings to stoppolluting. The new law will come into practice on 1 January.Since China\u2019s environmental protection law was passed in 1989, thecountry has become the world\u2019s second-largest economy and its biggestcarbon emitter; decades of breakneck economic growth have left many of its rivers desiccated and its cities perennially shrouded in smog.Over the past year, the Chinese government has begun to emphasiseenvironmental protection in its official rhetoric. The new law \u201csetsenvironmental protection as the country\u2019s basic policy,\u201d state news agency Xinhua reported.At an annual parliamentary meeting in March, premier Li Keqiang saidthat the government will \u201cresolutely declare war against pollution aswe declared war against poverty\u201d.Yet environmental groups say that China\u2019s greatest environmentalproblems arise from a gap between legislation and implementation.\u201cIf you look at China\u2019s air pollution or water pollution control laws,they\u2019re pretty good compared to global standards,\u201d said Ma Tianjie,program director for mainland work at Greenpeace East Asia. \u201cBut nomatter how good [the laws] look on paper, the true test will always bethe willingness of local authorities to enforce them.\u201dThe amended law will remove limits on fines for polluting factories,which are currently so low that many enterprises prefer to pay themthan take long-term anti-pollution measures. It will also encourage\u201cstudies on the impact environmental quality causes on public health,urging prevention and control of pollution-related diseases,\u201d Xinhuareported.\u201cLocal officials may be demoted or sacked, if they are guilty ofmisconduct, including covering up environment-related wrongdoing,\u201d the newswire reported. \u201cIf offenders' behaviors constitute crimes, theywill be held criminally responsible.\u201dThis month, Chinese environmental researchers concluded that nearly60% of the country\u2019s groundwater quality is either \u201crelatively poor\u201dor \u201cvery poor\u201d. A separate official report claimed that 16% of thecountry\u2019s land is polluted, some of it with chemicals such as arsenicand mercury. Earlier this month, dangerous levels of the carcinogenicchemical benzene were detected in the northwestern city Lanzhou\u2019swater supply, triggering a run on bottled water.Reducing the country\u2019s noxious smog has also become a challenge forgrowth-minded local officials. On Thursday, the UK shadow climate change minister Baroness Byrony Worthington led a well-attended \"trainingcourse\" for Chinese mayors on strategies for combatting air pollution.\u201cEvery single person we\u2019ve met so far has mentioned the words, \u2018smoggy weather,\u2019\u201d said Worthington, who is on a four-day trip to Chinarepresenting Globe International, an organisation of legislatorsfocused on sustainable development. \u201cThey fear that the external worldis pointing and laughing at this stage which China\u2019s environment hasreached \u2013 it\u2019s a kind of loss of face.\u201d", "tags": ["Pollution", "Environment", "China", "World news", "Greenhouse gas emissions"], "title": "China strengthens environmental laws"},{"date": "2014-06-06T00:11:30Z", "country": "china", "content": "The 2014 Lowy Institute Poll, released this week, demonstrates that when it comes to China, Australians feel very conflicted.On the one hand, Australians\u2019 feelings towards China are as warm as they have ever been in 10 years of Lowy Institute polling. Remarkably, Australians believe that China has as much of a claim to the title of \"Australia\u2019s best friend in Asia\" as Japan has \u2013 and a greater claim than Singapore, Indonesia, India or South Korea.On the other hand, nearly half (48%) of Australians believe it is likely that China will become a military threat to Australia in the next 20 years. More than half (56%) believe the government allows too much foreign investment from China.And China\u2019s powerful new leader, president Xi Jinping, hardly registers in the Australian public consciousness. When asked to rate a series of world leaders, only 2% of Australians said they admired Xi a lot, and 15% admired him a little. A full 64% did not know of Xi or had no view of him.It is remarkable that so many Australians believe we may soon be threatened militarily by a country that many of us today see as our best friend in Asia. But it is also understandable that Australia and China should not have a complete meeting of the minds. On the one hand, there is much for Australians to admire about China\u2019s development. In the past three decades, China has remade its economy, driven extraordinary productivity increases, and in so doing raised hundreds of millions of people out of poverty. This last achievement should not be ignored by China\u2019s critics.China\u2019s economic growth and its appetite for natural resources has, of course, put a good deal of money into Australians\u2019 pockets in recent years. Increasingly, flows of trade and investment flows are being matched by flows of people, as Australian and Chinese tourists discover each others\u2019 countries.On the other hand, our two countries remain starkly different. There are limits to the level of intimacy that can be achieved between a democracy and a non-democracy. This week\u2019s anniversary of Tiananmen Square is a reminder that internal conditions in China have the potential to derail the bilateral relationship.Furthermore, China\u2019s external behaviour has taken a more assertive turn of late. Last year, China unilaterally announced an air defence identification zone over the East China Sea, provoking strong responses from Australia and other countries. In early February, Chinese warships conducted their first military exercises in the waters immediately to Australia\u2019s north.Given the uncertainty about China\u2019s future behaviour, it makes good sense for us to invest in our alliance with the United States and encourage its \"rebalance\" towards Asia. But this does not mean we should run down our relationship with China; on the contrary, we should thicken it.What can we do to take the Australia-China relationship to the next level?The strategic partnership delivered by former prime minister Julia Gillard in 2013 was a good start. Australian and Chinese political leaders do not know each other well enough. Now Australian and Chinese leaders are due to hold annual meetings each year and Cabinet-level strategic dialogues on foreign policy and economics are also meant to take place. The Lowy Institute has long argued for this kind of arrangements to build trust between the political elites of the two countries.In April, prime minister Tony Abbott pulled off a successful visit to Beijing. Taking a leaf from John Howard\u2019s book, he stayed away from human rights and focused instead on areas of common interest, in particular economic ties. He was assisted by the professionalism showed by Australian agencies in the search for MH370 \u2013 a topic in which the Chinese leadership is intensely interested.This November, president Xi is due to visit to Australia in November for the G20 Leaders Summit. Hopefully he will stay for longer than the summit, and see more of Australia than Brisbane.When it comes to Asian security, Canberra needs to walk a fine line. We should not get caught up in bilateral disputes in which we cannot make a material difference \u2013 but we should not back off from defending our own interests and values. I have never heard a sinologist say that the one thing the Chinese respect is weakness.The worst thing we could do is lead the Chinese to believe we will pre-emptively downgrade our alliance relationship with Washington in order to curry favour with Beijing. That is never going to happen and any hints to the contrary will only lead to disappointment down the track. China appreciates clarity and consistency in its relations with other countries, and Australia owes it no less than that.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Australian politics", "China", "Foreign policy", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Are Australia and China frenemies? | Michael Fullilove"},{"date": "2014-06-12T07:45:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "While promoting Disney hit Maleficent in Shanghai, Angelina Jolie has upset some Chinese people by naming her favourite Chinese director as Ang Lee, who was born in Taiwan.\"I am not sure if you consider Ang Lee Chinese, he's Taiwanese, but he does many Chinese-language films with many Chinese artists and actors,\" Jolie said. \"I think his works and the actors in his films are the ones I am most familiar with and very fond of.\"By suggesting that Taiwan and China are totally separate countries, Jolie has angered Chinese communists who feel that Taiwan is a rogue state that belongs to the People's Republic of China (PRC). Taiwan is instead governed by the Republic of China, who were ousted from governing the whole of China in 1949; the PRC doesn't recognise its sovereignty, and claims Taiwan as its own province. Relations are frosty but calm between the two powers, but culturally there remain deep divisions.\"In a moment of excitement, a brilliant woman became a stupid laughing stock,\" wrote one user of social media service Weibo, while another described her as a \"deranged Taiwan independence supporter\". Another suggested that anyone seeing Maleficent would be \"traitorious\". In Taiwan meanwhile, she received support, with one person writing: \"Her comment about Ang Lee being Taiwanese shows she fully deserves to be the goodwill ambassador for the UN. She is not afraid to tell the truth.\"Her husband Brad Pitt also faced the ire of China after he appeared in the film Seven Years in Tibet, which gave a sympathetic portrayal of the Dalai Lama, who repudiated China's ownership of the region. Pitt was allegedly placed on a travel blacklist that banned him from visiting the country (along with Martin Scorsese following his Tibet film Kundun), though he accompanied Jolie on her current promotional trip.Jolie also appeared in London this week at the End Sexual Violence in Conflict summit, where she met with victims of rape. \"I've met survivors and spent time with them. I'd heard their stories and became very emotionally involved and I thought, What can I possibly do to help?\" she told Women's Hour on Radio 4. Jolie founded the Preventing Sexual Violence Initiative with foreign secretary William Hague in 2012, and the pair will now launch a set of guidance notes on how to strengthen prosecutions in rape cases from conflict regions.", "tags": ["Maleficent", "Angelina Jolie", "Film", "China", "Taiwan", "Culture"], "title": "Angelina Jolie angers Chinese nationalists with Taiwan comments"},{"date": "2014-05-27T04:13:56Z", "country": "china", "content": "A Chinese fishing vessel rammed and sank a Vietnamese fishing boat in the disputed South China Sea, Vietnamese state media reported Tuesday, in an incident likely to sharpen already dangerously high tensions between the two nations over their overlapping claims in the waters.The reports in the Tuoi Tre newspaper and other media said the incident occurred about 18 miles (30km) from a large oil rig China deployed on 1 May in a section of the sea claimed by both countries. The move by Beijing infuriated Hanoi and set off violent anti-China protests. China's official Xinhua news agency countered that the Vietnamese vessel capsized after \"harassing and colliding\" with the Chinese boat.  \"Crew aboard the boat were saved after their ship jostled a fishing boat from Dongfang city in southern China's Hainan province and overturned in the waters near China's Xisha Islands,\" Xinhua said, citing a government source.China's government had launched solemn representations with Vietnam over the incident, Xinhua said.A Vietnamese coastguard officer said earlier on Tuesday that the Chinese boat had rammed and sunk the Vietnamese fishing vessel. Vietnam sent patrol ships to confront the rig and China has deployed scores of vessels to protect it. The two sides have been involved in a tense standoff, with boats occasionally colliding. The countries have long sparred over who owns what in the oil and gas-rich waters. Incidents between fishing crews are common. Tuoi Tre said about 40 Chinese fishing boats surrounded a group of Vietnamese vessels on Monday afternoon. One rammed into the Vietnamese, tossing 10 fishermen into the water and sinking the boat. The fishermen were picked by the other Vietnamese boats and there were no injuries. Since 1 May Vietnam has accused China of ramming into or firing water cannon at Vietnamese vessels trying to get close to the rig, damaging several boats and injuring fisheries surveillance officers. Vietnamese authorities have shown video footage of some of the incidents. China accuses Vietnam of doing the same.China claims nearly all of the South China Sea as its own, bringing it into conflict with the far smaller nations of Vietnam, the Philippines and three others that have rival claims. In recent years it has been more assertive in pressing its claims in the waters and resisting attempts to negotiate.The United States, which has launched its own military \"pivot to Asia\" partly in response to China's rising military might, called the deployment of the rig \"provocative\".Vietnam is trying to rally regional and international support against Beijing but its options are limited because China is its largest trading partner.Reuters and the Associated Press contributed to this report", "tags": ["Vietnam", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "South China Sea"], "title": "Vietnam accuses China as boat sinks"},{"date": "2014-04-25T15:58:25Z", "country": "china", "content": "Chinese legislators have passed the first amendments to the country\u2019s environmental protection law in 25 years, promising greater powers forenvironmental authorities and harsher punishments for polluters.The amendments, which the Standing Committee of National People\u2019sCongress passed on Thursday after two years of debate, will allowauthorities to detain company bosses for 15 days if they do notcomplete environmental impact assessments or ignore warnings to stoppolluting. The new law will come into practice on 1 January.Since China\u2019s environmental protection law was passed in 1989, thecountry has become the world\u2019s second-largest economy and its biggestcarbon emitter; decades of breakneck economic growth have left many of its rivers desiccated and its cities perennially shrouded in smog.Over the past year, the Chinese government has begun to emphasiseenvironmental protection in its official rhetoric. The new law \u201csetsenvironmental protection as the country\u2019s basic policy,\u201d state news agency Xinhua reported.At an annual parliamentary meeting in March, premier Li Keqiang saidthat the government will \u201cresolutely declare war against pollution aswe declared war against poverty\u201d.Yet environmental groups say that China\u2019s greatest environmentalproblems arise from a gap between legislation and implementation.\u201cIf you look at China\u2019s air pollution or water pollution control laws,they\u2019re pretty good compared to global standards,\u201d said Ma Tianjie,program director for mainland work at Greenpeace East Asia. \u201cBut nomatter how good [the laws] look on paper, the true test will always bethe willingness of local authorities to enforce them.\u201dThe amended law will remove limits on fines for polluting factories,which are currently so low that many enterprises prefer to pay themthan take long-term anti-pollution measures. It will also encourage\u201cstudies on the impact environmental quality causes on public health,urging prevention and control of pollution-related diseases,\u201d Xinhuareported.\u201cLocal officials may be demoted or sacked, if they are guilty ofmisconduct, including covering up environment-related wrongdoing,\u201d the newswire reported. \u201cIf offenders' behaviors constitute crimes, theywill be held criminally responsible.\u201dThis month, Chinese environmental researchers concluded that nearly60% of the country\u2019s groundwater quality is either \u201crelatively poor\u201dor \u201cvery poor\u201d. A separate official report claimed that 16% of thecountry\u2019s land is polluted, some of it with chemicals such as arsenicand mercury. Earlier this month, dangerous levels of the carcinogenicchemical benzene were detected in the northwestern city Lanzhou\u2019swater supply, triggering a run on bottled water.Reducing the country\u2019s noxious smog has also become a challenge forgrowth-minded local officials. On Thursday, the UK shadow climate change minister Baroness Byrony Worthington led a well-attended \"trainingcourse\" for Chinese mayors on strategies for combatting air pollution.\u201cEvery single person we\u2019ve met so far has mentioned the words, \u2018smoggy weather,\u2019\u201d said Worthington, who is on a four-day trip to Chinarepresenting Globe International, an organisation of legislatorsfocused on sustainable development. \u201cThey fear that the external worldis pointing and laughing at this stage which China\u2019s environment hasreached \u2013 it\u2019s a kind of loss of face.\u201d", "tags": ["Pollution", "Environment", "China", "World news", "Greenhouse gas emissions"], "title": "China strengthens environmental laws"},{"date": "2014-06-06T00:11:30Z", "country": "china", "content": "The 2014 Lowy Institute Poll, released this week, demonstrates that when it comes to China, Australians feel very conflicted.On the one hand, Australians\u2019 feelings towards China are as warm as they have ever been in 10 years of Lowy Institute polling. Remarkably, Australians believe that China has as much of a claim to the title of \"Australia\u2019s best friend in Asia\" as Japan has \u2013 and a greater claim than Singapore, Indonesia, India or South Korea.On the other hand, nearly half (48%) of Australians believe it is likely that China will become a military threat to Australia in the next 20 years. More than half (56%) believe the government allows too much foreign investment from China.And China\u2019s powerful new leader, president Xi Jinping, hardly registers in the Australian public consciousness. When asked to rate a series of world leaders, only 2% of Australians said they admired Xi a lot, and 15% admired him a little. A full 64% did not know of Xi or had no view of him.It is remarkable that so many Australians believe we may soon be threatened militarily by a country that many of us today see as our best friend in Asia. But it is also understandable that Australia and China should not have a complete meeting of the minds. On the one hand, there is much for Australians to admire about China\u2019s development. In the past three decades, China has remade its economy, driven extraordinary productivity increases, and in so doing raised hundreds of millions of people out of poverty. This last achievement should not be ignored by China\u2019s critics.China\u2019s economic growth and its appetite for natural resources has, of course, put a good deal of money into Australians\u2019 pockets in recent years. Increasingly, flows of trade and investment flows are being matched by flows of people, as Australian and Chinese tourists discover each others\u2019 countries.On the other hand, our two countries remain starkly different. There are limits to the level of intimacy that can be achieved between a democracy and a non-democracy. This week\u2019s anniversary of Tiananmen Square is a reminder that internal conditions in China have the potential to derail the bilateral relationship.Furthermore, China\u2019s external behaviour has taken a more assertive turn of late. Last year, China unilaterally announced an air defence identification zone over the East China Sea, provoking strong responses from Australia and other countries. In early February, Chinese warships conducted their first military exercises in the waters immediately to Australia\u2019s north.Given the uncertainty about China\u2019s future behaviour, it makes good sense for us to invest in our alliance with the United States and encourage its \"rebalance\" towards Asia. But this does not mean we should run down our relationship with China; on the contrary, we should thicken it.What can we do to take the Australia-China relationship to the next level?The strategic partnership delivered by former prime minister Julia Gillard in 2013 was a good start. Australian and Chinese political leaders do not know each other well enough. Now Australian and Chinese leaders are due to hold annual meetings each year and Cabinet-level strategic dialogues on foreign policy and economics are also meant to take place. The Lowy Institute has long argued for this kind of arrangements to build trust between the political elites of the two countries.In April, prime minister Tony Abbott pulled off a successful visit to Beijing. Taking a leaf from John Howard\u2019s book, he stayed away from human rights and focused instead on areas of common interest, in particular economic ties. He was assisted by the professionalism showed by Australian agencies in the search for MH370 \u2013 a topic in which the Chinese leadership is intensely interested.This November, president Xi is due to visit to Australia in November for the G20 Leaders Summit. Hopefully he will stay for longer than the summit, and see more of Australia than Brisbane.When it comes to Asian security, Canberra needs to walk a fine line. We should not get caught up in bilateral disputes in which we cannot make a material difference \u2013 but we should not back off from defending our own interests and values. I have never heard a sinologist say that the one thing the Chinese respect is weakness.The worst thing we could do is lead the Chinese to believe we will pre-emptively downgrade our alliance relationship with Washington in order to curry favour with Beijing. That is never going to happen and any hints to the contrary will only lead to disappointment down the track. China appreciates clarity and consistency in its relations with other countries, and Australia owes it no less than that.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Australian politics", "China", "Foreign policy", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Are Australia and China frenemies? | Michael Fullilove"},{"date": "2014-06-12T07:45:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "While promoting Disney hit Maleficent in Shanghai, Angelina Jolie has upset some Chinese people by naming her favourite Chinese director as Ang Lee, who was born in Taiwan.\"I am not sure if you consider Ang Lee Chinese, he's Taiwanese, but he does many Chinese-language films with many Chinese artists and actors,\" Jolie said. \"I think his works and the actors in his films are the ones I am most familiar with and very fond of.\"By suggesting that Taiwan and China are totally separate countries, Jolie has angered Chinese communists who feel that Taiwan is a rogue state that belongs to the People's Republic of China (PRC). Taiwan is instead governed by the Republic of China, who were ousted from governing the whole of China in 1949; the PRC doesn't recognise its sovereignty, and claims Taiwan as its own province. Relations are frosty but calm between the two powers, but culturally there remain deep divisions.\"In a moment of excitement, a brilliant woman became a stupid laughing stock,\" wrote one user of social media service Weibo, while another described her as a \"deranged Taiwan independence supporter\". Another suggested that anyone seeing Maleficent would be \"traitorious\". In Taiwan meanwhile, she received support, with one person writing: \"Her comment about Ang Lee being Taiwanese shows she fully deserves to be the goodwill ambassador for the UN. She is not afraid to tell the truth.\"Her husband Brad Pitt also faced the ire of China after he appeared in the film Seven Years in Tibet, which gave a sympathetic portrayal of the Dalai Lama, who repudiated China's ownership of the region. Pitt was allegedly placed on a travel blacklist that banned him from visiting the country (along with Martin Scorsese following his Tibet film Kundun), though he accompanied Jolie on her current promotional trip.Jolie also appeared in London this week at the End Sexual Violence in Conflict summit, where she met with victims of rape. \"I've met survivors and spent time with them. I'd heard their stories and became very emotionally involved and I thought, What can I possibly do to help?\" she told Women's Hour on Radio 4. Jolie founded the Preventing Sexual Violence Initiative with foreign secretary William Hague in 2012, and the pair will now launch a set of guidance notes on how to strengthen prosecutions in rape cases from conflict regions.", "tags": ["Maleficent", "Angelina Jolie", "Film", "China", "Taiwan", "Culture"], "title": "Angelina Jolie angers Chinese nationalists with Taiwan comments"},{"date": "2014-05-27T04:13:56Z", "country": "china", "content": "A Chinese fishing vessel rammed and sank a Vietnamese fishing boat in the disputed South China Sea, Vietnamese state media reported Tuesday, in an incident likely to sharpen already dangerously high tensions between the two nations over their overlapping claims in the waters.The reports in the Tuoi Tre newspaper and other media said the incident occurred about 18 miles (30km) from a large oil rig China deployed on 1 May in a section of the sea claimed by both countries. The move by Beijing infuriated Hanoi and set off violent anti-China protests. China's official Xinhua news agency countered that the Vietnamese vessel capsized after \"harassing and colliding\" with the Chinese boat.  \"Crew aboard the boat were saved after their ship jostled a fishing boat from Dongfang city in southern China's Hainan province and overturned in the waters near China's Xisha Islands,\" Xinhua said, citing a government source.China's government had launched solemn representations with Vietnam over the incident, Xinhua said.A Vietnamese coastguard officer said earlier on Tuesday that the Chinese boat had rammed and sunk the Vietnamese fishing vessel. Vietnam sent patrol ships to confront the rig and China has deployed scores of vessels to protect it. The two sides have been involved in a tense standoff, with boats occasionally colliding. The countries have long sparred over who owns what in the oil and gas-rich waters. Incidents between fishing crews are common. Tuoi Tre said about 40 Chinese fishing boats surrounded a group of Vietnamese vessels on Monday afternoon. One rammed into the Vietnamese, tossing 10 fishermen into the water and sinking the boat. The fishermen were picked by the other Vietnamese boats and there were no injuries. Since 1 May Vietnam has accused China of ramming into or firing water cannon at Vietnamese vessels trying to get close to the rig, damaging several boats and injuring fisheries surveillance officers. Vietnamese authorities have shown video footage of some of the incidents. China accuses Vietnam of doing the same.China claims nearly all of the South China Sea as its own, bringing it into conflict with the far smaller nations of Vietnam, the Philippines and three others that have rival claims. In recent years it has been more assertive in pressing its claims in the waters and resisting attempts to negotiate.The United States, which has launched its own military \"pivot to Asia\" partly in response to China's rising military might, called the deployment of the rig \"provocative\".Vietnam is trying to rally regional and international support against Beijing but its options are limited because China is its largest trading partner.Reuters and the Associated Press contributed to this report", "tags": ["Vietnam", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "South China Sea"], "title": "Vietnam accuses China as boat sinks"},{"date": "2014-05-15T06:16:21Z", "country": "china", "content": "Violent reaction in Vietnam to China's expansionist stance in disputed seas has turned deadly with reports that 20 or more people have been killed during rioting that began with attacks on foreign-owned factories.A top Taiwanese diplomat said rioters had stormed a large Taiwanese steel mill in Vietnam, killing at least one Chinese worker and injuring 90 more. Huang Chih-peng said the violence took place late on Wednesday and early Thursday at the Formosa steel mill in central Vietnam.A doctor at a hospital in the central Vietnamese province of Ha Tinh said five Vietnamese workers and 16 other people described as Chinese died during anti-China rioting on Wednesday night. \"There were about a hundred people sent to the hospital last night. Many were Chinese. More are being sent to the hospital this morning,\" the doctor told the Reuters news agency by phone. Cambodia said hundreds of Chinese nationals had poured across the border from Vietnam to escape the riots. \"Yesterday more than 600 Chinese people from Vietnam crossed at Bavet international checkpoint into Cambodia,\" Kirt Chantharith, a police spokesman, told the Reuters news agency. Bavet is on a highway stretching from Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam's commercial centre, to Cambodia's capital, Phnom Penh. Earlier this week mobs burned and looted scores of foreign-owned factories in southern Vietnam, believing they were Chinese-run when many were actually Taiwanese or South Korean. No deaths were reported in those initial attacks.On Thursday China's embassy in Vietnam urged the country's public security authorities to take \"effective measures\" to protect its nationals' personal safety and legal rights. The embassy made the remark in a statement published on its website, adding that China had launched an emergency mechanism to cope with the effects of anti-Chinese riots in its southern neighbour. In Washington the visiting Chinese army chief, General Fang Fenghui, reacted to the situation by accusing the US of stoking tensions in the region. In response the US vice-president, Joe Biden, said the US was \"seriously concerned\" about what he called China's unilateral actions in its maritime dispute with Vietnam.Anti-Chinese sentiment has been running high in Vietnam ever since Beijing deployed an oil rig into disputed waters in the South China Sea on 1 May. There have been encounters including ramming and exchanges of water cannon between Chinese vessels operating near the rig and boats from Vietnam, which wants China out of the area.China\u2019s foreign minister, Wang Yi, \u201curged Vietnam not to attempt to further complicate and aggravate the current maritime friction\u201d, the state-run Global Times newspaper reported on Thursday.\"China's position on safeguarding its legitimate sovereign rights and interests is firm and clear and will not change,\" he told Indonesia\u2019s foreign affairs minister Marty Natalegawa in a phone conversation, the Global Times said.The newspaper condemned the protests in an editorial, calling them \u201cthe most stunning attack [on] foreign businesses in East Asia in recent years\u201d.\u201cThe turmoil is the outcome of Hanoi's years of anti-China propaganda,\u201d it said. \u201cWithout legitimate grounds and practical capability, Vietnam fabricates and hypes up its jurisdiction over the Xisha and Nansha islands. This uncompromising stance, in an attempt to bring its people together, has actually cornered itself.\u201dIn 2012 Chinese authorities permitted large-scale anti-Japan protests amid rising tensions between the two countries over competing territorial claims in the East China Sea. Protesters in cities across the country vandalised Japanese shops and smashed Japanese-made cars before authorities ordered them to disperse.China\u2019s propaganda authorities are censoring coverage of the protests, according to a leaked circular obtained by the online magazine China Digital Times. \u201cAbsolutely do not report on any news related to \u2018Chinese-funded enterprises in Vietnam being attacked by Vietnamese,\u2019\u201d it said. \u201cDo not republish foreign coverage.\u201d", "tags": ["Vietnam", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "South China Sea"], "title": "Anti-China riots turn deadly in Vietnam"},{"date": "2014-04-25T15:58:25Z", "country": "china", "content": "Chinese legislators have passed the first amendments to the country\u2019s environmental protection law in 25 years, promising greater powers forenvironmental authorities and harsher punishments for polluters.The amendments, which the Standing Committee of National People\u2019sCongress passed on Thursday after two years of debate, will allowauthorities to detain company bosses for 15 days if they do notcomplete environmental impact assessments or ignore warnings to stoppolluting. The new law will come into practice on 1 January.Since China\u2019s environmental protection law was passed in 1989, thecountry has become the world\u2019s second-largest economy and its biggestcarbon emitter; decades of breakneck economic growth have left many of its rivers desiccated and its cities perennially shrouded in smog.Over the past year, the Chinese government has begun to emphasiseenvironmental protection in its official rhetoric. The new law \u201csetsenvironmental protection as the country\u2019s basic policy,\u201d state news agency Xinhua reported.At an annual parliamentary meeting in March, premier Li Keqiang saidthat the government will \u201cresolutely declare war against pollution aswe declared war against poverty\u201d.Yet environmental groups say that China\u2019s greatest environmentalproblems arise from a gap between legislation and implementation.\u201cIf you look at China\u2019s air pollution or water pollution control laws,they\u2019re pretty good compared to global standards,\u201d said Ma Tianjie,program director for mainland work at Greenpeace East Asia. \u201cBut nomatter how good [the laws] look on paper, the true test will always bethe willingness of local authorities to enforce them.\u201dThe amended law will remove limits on fines for polluting factories,which are currently so low that many enterprises prefer to pay themthan take long-term anti-pollution measures. It will also encourage\u201cstudies on the impact environmental quality causes on public health,urging prevention and control of pollution-related diseases,\u201d Xinhuareported.\u201cLocal officials may be demoted or sacked, if they are guilty ofmisconduct, including covering up environment-related wrongdoing,\u201d the newswire reported. \u201cIf offenders' behaviors constitute crimes, theywill be held criminally responsible.\u201dThis month, Chinese environmental researchers concluded that nearly60% of the country\u2019s groundwater quality is either \u201crelatively poor\u201dor \u201cvery poor\u201d. A separate official report claimed that 16% of thecountry\u2019s land is polluted, some of it with chemicals such as arsenicand mercury. Earlier this month, dangerous levels of the carcinogenicchemical benzene were detected in the northwestern city Lanzhou\u2019swater supply, triggering a run on bottled water.Reducing the country\u2019s noxious smog has also become a challenge forgrowth-minded local officials. On Thursday, the UK shadow climate change minister Baroness Byrony Worthington led a well-attended \"trainingcourse\" for Chinese mayors on strategies for combatting air pollution.\u201cEvery single person we\u2019ve met so far has mentioned the words, \u2018smoggy weather,\u2019\u201d said Worthington, who is on a four-day trip to Chinarepresenting Globe International, an organisation of legislatorsfocused on sustainable development. \u201cThey fear that the external worldis pointing and laughing at this stage which China\u2019s environment hasreached \u2013 it\u2019s a kind of loss of face.\u201d", "tags": ["Pollution", "Environment", "China", "World news", "Greenhouse gas emissions"], "title": "China strengthens environmental laws"},{"date": "2014-06-06T00:11:30Z", "country": "china", "content": "The 2014 Lowy Institute Poll, released this week, demonstrates that when it comes to China, Australians feel very conflicted.On the one hand, Australians\u2019 feelings towards China are as warm as they have ever been in 10 years of Lowy Institute polling. Remarkably, Australians believe that China has as much of a claim to the title of \"Australia\u2019s best friend in Asia\" as Japan has \u2013 and a greater claim than Singapore, Indonesia, India or South Korea.On the other hand, nearly half (48%) of Australians believe it is likely that China will become a military threat to Australia in the next 20 years. More than half (56%) believe the government allows too much foreign investment from China.And China\u2019s powerful new leader, president Xi Jinping, hardly registers in the Australian public consciousness. When asked to rate a series of world leaders, only 2% of Australians said they admired Xi a lot, and 15% admired him a little. A full 64% did not know of Xi or had no view of him.It is remarkable that so many Australians believe we may soon be threatened militarily by a country that many of us today see as our best friend in Asia. But it is also understandable that Australia and China should not have a complete meeting of the minds. On the one hand, there is much for Australians to admire about China\u2019s development. In the past three decades, China has remade its economy, driven extraordinary productivity increases, and in so doing raised hundreds of millions of people out of poverty. This last achievement should not be ignored by China\u2019s critics.China\u2019s economic growth and its appetite for natural resources has, of course, put a good deal of money into Australians\u2019 pockets in recent years. Increasingly, flows of trade and investment flows are being matched by flows of people, as Australian and Chinese tourists discover each others\u2019 countries.On the other hand, our two countries remain starkly different. There are limits to the level of intimacy that can be achieved between a democracy and a non-democracy. This week\u2019s anniversary of Tiananmen Square is a reminder that internal conditions in China have the potential to derail the bilateral relationship.Furthermore, China\u2019s external behaviour has taken a more assertive turn of late. Last year, China unilaterally announced an air defence identification zone over the East China Sea, provoking strong responses from Australia and other countries. In early February, Chinese warships conducted their first military exercises in the waters immediately to Australia\u2019s north.Given the uncertainty about China\u2019s future behaviour, it makes good sense for us to invest in our alliance with the United States and encourage its \"rebalance\" towards Asia. But this does not mean we should run down our relationship with China; on the contrary, we should thicken it.What can we do to take the Australia-China relationship to the next level?The strategic partnership delivered by former prime minister Julia Gillard in 2013 was a good start. Australian and Chinese political leaders do not know each other well enough. Now Australian and Chinese leaders are due to hold annual meetings each year and Cabinet-level strategic dialogues on foreign policy and economics are also meant to take place. The Lowy Institute has long argued for this kind of arrangements to build trust between the political elites of the two countries.In April, prime minister Tony Abbott pulled off a successful visit to Beijing. Taking a leaf from John Howard\u2019s book, he stayed away from human rights and focused instead on areas of common interest, in particular economic ties. He was assisted by the professionalism showed by Australian agencies in the search for MH370 \u2013 a topic in which the Chinese leadership is intensely interested.This November, president Xi is due to visit to Australia in November for the G20 Leaders Summit. Hopefully he will stay for longer than the summit, and see more of Australia than Brisbane.When it comes to Asian security, Canberra needs to walk a fine line. We should not get caught up in bilateral disputes in which we cannot make a material difference \u2013 but we should not back off from defending our own interests and values. I have never heard a sinologist say that the one thing the Chinese respect is weakness.The worst thing we could do is lead the Chinese to believe we will pre-emptively downgrade our alliance relationship with Washington in order to curry favour with Beijing. That is never going to happen and any hints to the contrary will only lead to disappointment down the track. China appreciates clarity and consistency in its relations with other countries, and Australia owes it no less than that.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Australian politics", "China", "Foreign policy", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Are Australia and China frenemies? | Michael Fullilove"},{"date": "2014-06-12T07:45:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "While promoting Disney hit Maleficent in Shanghai, Angelina Jolie has upset some Chinese people by naming her favourite Chinese director as Ang Lee, who was born in Taiwan.\"I am not sure if you consider Ang Lee Chinese, he's Taiwanese, but he does many Chinese-language films with many Chinese artists and actors,\" Jolie said. \"I think his works and the actors in his films are the ones I am most familiar with and very fond of.\"By suggesting that Taiwan and China are totally separate countries, Jolie has angered Chinese communists who feel that Taiwan is a rogue state that belongs to the People's Republic of China (PRC). Taiwan is instead governed by the Republic of China, who were ousted from governing the whole of China in 1949; the PRC doesn't recognise its sovereignty, and claims Taiwan as its own province. Relations are frosty but calm between the two powers, but culturally there remain deep divisions.\"In a moment of excitement, a brilliant woman became a stupid laughing stock,\" wrote one user of social media service Weibo, while another described her as a \"deranged Taiwan independence supporter\". Another suggested that anyone seeing Maleficent would be \"traitorious\". In Taiwan meanwhile, she received support, with one person writing: \"Her comment about Ang Lee being Taiwanese shows she fully deserves to be the goodwill ambassador for the UN. She is not afraid to tell the truth.\"Her husband Brad Pitt also faced the ire of China after he appeared in the film Seven Years in Tibet, which gave a sympathetic portrayal of the Dalai Lama, who repudiated China's ownership of the region. Pitt was allegedly placed on a travel blacklist that banned him from visiting the country (along with Martin Scorsese following his Tibet film Kundun), though he accompanied Jolie on her current promotional trip.Jolie also appeared in London this week at the End Sexual Violence in Conflict summit, where she met with victims of rape. \"I've met survivors and spent time with them. I'd heard their stories and became very emotionally involved and I thought, What can I possibly do to help?\" she told Women's Hour on Radio 4. Jolie founded the Preventing Sexual Violence Initiative with foreign secretary William Hague in 2012, and the pair will now launch a set of guidance notes on how to strengthen prosecutions in rape cases from conflict regions.", "tags": ["Maleficent", "Angelina Jolie", "Film", "China", "Taiwan", "Culture"], "title": "Angelina Jolie angers Chinese nationalists with Taiwan comments"},{"date": "2014-05-27T04:13:56Z", "country": "china", "content": "A Chinese fishing vessel rammed and sank a Vietnamese fishing boat in the disputed South China Sea, Vietnamese state media reported Tuesday, in an incident likely to sharpen already dangerously high tensions between the two nations over their overlapping claims in the waters.The reports in the Tuoi Tre newspaper and other media said the incident occurred about 18 miles (30km) from a large oil rig China deployed on 1 May in a section of the sea claimed by both countries. The move by Beijing infuriated Hanoi and set off violent anti-China protests. China's official Xinhua news agency countered that the Vietnamese vessel capsized after \"harassing and colliding\" with the Chinese boat.  \"Crew aboard the boat were saved after their ship jostled a fishing boat from Dongfang city in southern China's Hainan province and overturned in the waters near China's Xisha Islands,\" Xinhua said, citing a government source.China's government had launched solemn representations with Vietnam over the incident, Xinhua said.A Vietnamese coastguard officer said earlier on Tuesday that the Chinese boat had rammed and sunk the Vietnamese fishing vessel. Vietnam sent patrol ships to confront the rig and China has deployed scores of vessels to protect it. The two sides have been involved in a tense standoff, with boats occasionally colliding. The countries have long sparred over who owns what in the oil and gas-rich waters. Incidents between fishing crews are common. Tuoi Tre said about 40 Chinese fishing boats surrounded a group of Vietnamese vessels on Monday afternoon. One rammed into the Vietnamese, tossing 10 fishermen into the water and sinking the boat. The fishermen were picked by the other Vietnamese boats and there were no injuries. Since 1 May Vietnam has accused China of ramming into or firing water cannon at Vietnamese vessels trying to get close to the rig, damaging several boats and injuring fisheries surveillance officers. Vietnamese authorities have shown video footage of some of the incidents. China accuses Vietnam of doing the same.China claims nearly all of the South China Sea as its own, bringing it into conflict with the far smaller nations of Vietnam, the Philippines and three others that have rival claims. In recent years it has been more assertive in pressing its claims in the waters and resisting attempts to negotiate.The United States, which has launched its own military \"pivot to Asia\" partly in response to China's rising military might, called the deployment of the rig \"provocative\".Vietnam is trying to rally regional and international support against Beijing but its options are limited because China is its largest trading partner.Reuters and the Associated Press contributed to this report", "tags": ["Vietnam", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "South China Sea"], "title": "Vietnam accuses China as boat sinks"},{"date": "2014-05-15T06:16:21Z", "country": "china", "content": "Violent reaction in Vietnam to China's expansionist stance in disputed seas has turned deadly with reports that 20 or more people have been killed during rioting that began with attacks on foreign-owned factories.A top Taiwanese diplomat said rioters had stormed a large Taiwanese steel mill in Vietnam, killing at least one Chinese worker and injuring 90 more. Huang Chih-peng said the violence took place late on Wednesday and early Thursday at the Formosa steel mill in central Vietnam.A doctor at a hospital in the central Vietnamese province of Ha Tinh said five Vietnamese workers and 16 other people described as Chinese died during anti-China rioting on Wednesday night. \"There were about a hundred people sent to the hospital last night. Many were Chinese. More are being sent to the hospital this morning,\" the doctor told the Reuters news agency by phone. Cambodia said hundreds of Chinese nationals had poured across the border from Vietnam to escape the riots. \"Yesterday more than 600 Chinese people from Vietnam crossed at Bavet international checkpoint into Cambodia,\" Kirt Chantharith, a police spokesman, told the Reuters news agency. Bavet is on a highway stretching from Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam's commercial centre, to Cambodia's capital, Phnom Penh. Earlier this week mobs burned and looted scores of foreign-owned factories in southern Vietnam, believing they were Chinese-run when many were actually Taiwanese or South Korean. No deaths were reported in those initial attacks.On Thursday China's embassy in Vietnam urged the country's public security authorities to take \"effective measures\" to protect its nationals' personal safety and legal rights. The embassy made the remark in a statement published on its website, adding that China had launched an emergency mechanism to cope with the effects of anti-Chinese riots in its southern neighbour. In Washington the visiting Chinese army chief, General Fang Fenghui, reacted to the situation by accusing the US of stoking tensions in the region. In response the US vice-president, Joe Biden, said the US was \"seriously concerned\" about what he called China's unilateral actions in its maritime dispute with Vietnam.Anti-Chinese sentiment has been running high in Vietnam ever since Beijing deployed an oil rig into disputed waters in the South China Sea on 1 May. There have been encounters including ramming and exchanges of water cannon between Chinese vessels operating near the rig and boats from Vietnam, which wants China out of the area.China\u2019s foreign minister, Wang Yi, \u201curged Vietnam not to attempt to further complicate and aggravate the current maritime friction\u201d, the state-run Global Times newspaper reported on Thursday.\"China's position on safeguarding its legitimate sovereign rights and interests is firm and clear and will not change,\" he told Indonesia\u2019s foreign affairs minister Marty Natalegawa in a phone conversation, the Global Times said.The newspaper condemned the protests in an editorial, calling them \u201cthe most stunning attack [on] foreign businesses in East Asia in recent years\u201d.\u201cThe turmoil is the outcome of Hanoi's years of anti-China propaganda,\u201d it said. \u201cWithout legitimate grounds and practical capability, Vietnam fabricates and hypes up its jurisdiction over the Xisha and Nansha islands. This uncompromising stance, in an attempt to bring its people together, has actually cornered itself.\u201dIn 2012 Chinese authorities permitted large-scale anti-Japan protests amid rising tensions between the two countries over competing territorial claims in the East China Sea. Protesters in cities across the country vandalised Japanese shops and smashed Japanese-made cars before authorities ordered them to disperse.China\u2019s propaganda authorities are censoring coverage of the protests, according to a leaked circular obtained by the online magazine China Digital Times. \u201cAbsolutely do not report on any news related to \u2018Chinese-funded enterprises in Vietnam being attacked by Vietnamese,\u2019\u201d it said. \u201cDo not republish foreign coverage.\u201d", "tags": ["Vietnam", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "South China Sea"], "title": "Anti-China riots turn deadly in Vietnam"},{"date": "2014-05-09T10:07:15Z", "country": "china", "content": "When Japanese media reported that it had been leaked copies of China's contingency plans for the collapse of North Korea, some more excitable reports suggested that it could soon be \"all over\" for Kim Jong-un's regime. We asked a panel of North Korean experts whether they thought the documents were genuine and, if so, what could be concluded from a leak of this sort. One aspect of the leaked Chinese contingency plan is monumental \u2013 if it were true. But it is so implausible it suggests this report must be bogus.We have heard only vague details about the plan. Apparently it envisions a scenario in which North Korea\u2019s government collapses after foreign military forces enter the country. As the Guardian reported: \u201cThe possible causes of upheaval in the North include an attack by an unnamed foreign force that triggers the collapse of the regime, sending civilians and soldiers across the border with China.\u201d The plan then apparently goes on to discuss various Chinese responses, such as setting up refugee camps, detaining North Korean elites, and preventing armed members of the North Korean military from entering China.Take a step back and think about the scenario on which this plan is based. It suggests that if foreign military forces (presumably the United States and South Korea) invaded North Korea, China would not react by coming to the defence of North Korea (as it is obliged to do as Pyongyang\u2019s ally) but would allow the regime to be conquered and/or collapse. Only after this collapse would China act \u2013 not on North Korea\u2019s behalf, but to ensure that instability does not spread into China.If this were true \u2013 that China would not act in defence of North Korea at the time of an invasion \u2013 this is momentous news. But there are two reasons why this makes no senseIf this were true \u2013 that China would not act in defence of North Korea at the time of an invasion \u2013 this is momentous news indeed. But there are two reasons why this makes no sense, thus suggesting that the report is bogus.First, if China did decide to abandon its military alliance with North Korea, it would not announce this through a leak in this odd way. Putting aside whether or not China might actually do this (which is a whole other issue), the way in which Beijing would go about this momentous policy change would be to convey it very privately to US and South Korean leaders.Secondly, the United States and South Korea have long urged China to pressure the North Korean government, to punish or deter it from engaging in destabilising behaviour (missile and nuclear tests, the use of force, and so forth). A Chinese abrogation of its alliance with North Korea would be quite welcome news to those countries \u2013 and thus presumably Beijing would never do it without negotiating significant concessions from Seoul and Washington.China would never, in other words, give this away for free. Thus the sheer improbability of what would constitute a truly monumental policy change \u2013 let alone the way the change was communicated \u2013 casts doubt on the veracity of the leaked report.Here\u2019s what we know for sure. North Korea has limped by despite its poverty and weakness, and may continue to do so for decades to come. Or it might collapse next week.Here\u2019s what we know for sure. North Korea has limped by despite its poverty and weakness, and may continue to do so for decades to come. Or it might collapse next week. If the government does collapse, the Korean peninsula could erupt in a humanitarian, political and military crisis that threatens the broader stability of East Asia.Bruce W Bennett, of the thinktank Rand, and I modelled the military missions that countries might perform in the event of North Korean collapse. We calculated that stabilising the peninsula could require hundreds of thousands of troops. Drawing up contingency plans (as the United States, South Korea and, yes, also China have all been doing) is therefore vital. But even more importantly, those countries need to have a dialogue about this contingency, to mitigate the dangers that it might create in East Asian international relations.Jennifer Lind is an associate professor of government at Dartmouth College and the author of Sorry States: Apologies in International Politics (Cornell University Press, 2008). Follow on Twitter @profLindThe leaked news that Beijing has drawn up significant contingency plans in the event of a regime collapse in North Korea (DPRK) reflects just how little Kim Jong-un has managed to reassure the Chinese authorities that he is securely in power. Clearly China believes his hold on power to be fragile.We\u2019ve been here before. Ramping up of contingency plans for a crisis on China\u2019s border with the DPRK has occurred previously when Beijing\u2019s analysts have felt collapse may be imminent. In 2003, in the wake of a failed economic reform programme, initiated by Kim Jong-il, and a growing nuclear crisis, a large contingent of People\u2019s Liberation Army (PLA) troops were moved into the border region of Yanbian in China\u2019s south-eastern Jilin Province. High voltage fences were erected along portions of the rather porous border to prevent an escalation in defections across the Yalu River.Clearly China believes Kim Jong-un's hold on power to be fragile.China\u2019s plans come hot on the heels of a flurry of renewed interest in the North from Seoul and are, in part, probably a reaction to it. The South Korean president, Park Geun-hye, Beijing clearly worries about a massive influx of refugees and an ousted Kim3 trying to re-establish his power base from Chinese soil; Seoul knows it would face a humanitarian disaster that would cost multiples of German reunification and perilously threaten the South\u2019s economy.The presence of 30,000 or so American GIs in the South moving up to China\u2019s borders obviously alarms the PLA, while Seoul wonders what it would do with the DPRK\u2019s 1.2m-man army and the possibility of \u201clast ditch\u201d attacks on its territory.The fact is though that now is a time to plan for collapse.The fact is, though, that now is a time to plan for collapse. Kim Jong-un has not achieved the status of his father and grandfather as yet. His purging of senior cadres has led to nervousness among the higher echelons of power in Pyongyang and not consolidation. His half-hearted economic reforms (the so-called \u201c6.28 Policy\u201d of handing more control to agricultural co-operatives and a \u201cQuality of Life\u201d initiative to more widely distribute consumer goods) have both failed. The North remains mired in poverty, food insecurity and with an uncertain leadership.That China should be heightening its preparations for a collapse across the Yalu, and directly warning the North to avoid \"chaos\", is important. It reveals that Beijing believes the economic and political situation to be worsening and that elements on the North\u2019s ruling Korean Workers\u2019 Party that have been urging more wholesale economic reform (known loosely in Beijing as the Chrysanthemum Group) are distinctly on the back foot, if not now almost wholly purged. It also indicates that Beijing now believes that any return to the economic reform programme of 2002, instigated by Kim Jong-il, is now off the cards. Those reforms, which ultimately failed, did include the seeds of a Chinese style \"reform and opening up\" policy but went nowhere near far enough. Kim Jong-un has little to offer in the way of policy except more of the same \"Arduous march\u201d North Koreans have had to endure since 1993.Paul French is the author of North Korea: State of Paranoia, published by Zed Books. Follow on Twitter @StateofParanoiaThis leak of documents outlining how the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) would respond to a collapse in North Korea does not necessarily mean that China thinks that such a collapse is now more likely. It is more probable that the leak's timing was determined by internal Chinese debates. In late 2013, China was showing signs of greater openness in discussing what to do if North Korea collapsed. But in early spring 2014 this changed, and Chinese officials have since then been very reluctant to discuss the possibility that North Korea might collapse, let alone contingencies for such an event. (Perhaps this was because of rising tensions with Japan and a consequent Chinese reluctance to risk irritating North Korea, its only ally, by discussing that country's possible demise).Whatever the reasons for this leak it will infuriate North Korea, whose ties with China are already strained.This change must have been very frustrating to the PLA, who would have to deal in the first instance with the fallout of any North Korean collapse, and who therefore need clear direction from the civilian political leadership on what they should do. So perhaps the PLA leaked these documents so as to force the civilian leadership into a proper debate on these difficult issues. (The sharp response to the leak by the Chinese ministry of foreign affairs, which has no love for the PLA, supports this view. Its Asia directorate has been strongly against allowing even an internal debate on a North Korean collapse, let alone a discussion with foreigners).I suspect that the PLA's move will be welcomed in both Washington and Seoul, both of whom have been pressing the Chinese to share thoughts on contingencies so as to avoid possibly dangerous misunderstandings in the inevitable confusion of such a collapse.The document is significant too for what it does not say. On several occasions South Korea has worried aloud that, should North Korea collapse, Chinese troops might enter North Korea to maintain stability there. As far as I can tell without seeing the full document (which has not been published), these plans envisage no such move. It is possible therefore that the PLA leaked them in part so as to reassure South Korea, a country with which China now enjoys very good relations and with whose president senior Chinese leaders seem to have a warm personal rapport.Whatever the reasons for this leak it will infuriate North Korea, whose ties with China are already strained. There have been reports of a placard in North Korea's main military academy reading \u201cThe Chinese are traitors and are our enemies\u201d and Chinese attempts to disown the leaked documents are unlikely to persuade North Koreans to change this view. Sadly this leak may well increase the chances that North Korea does go ahead with a fourth nuclear test.The Pentagon recently noted what appear to be the final preparations for a detonation at North Korea's nuclear test site and, sadly, this leak \u2013 which will reinforce North Korea's belief that it is isolated and needs to be strong in a hostile world \u2013 may well increase the chances that North Korea does go ahead with a fourth nuclear test.John Everard was the British ambassador to North Korea from 2006 to 2008Kyodo\u2019s report about leaked Chinese military documents outlining what to do in the case of a North Korean collapse raises more questions than it answers.In the age of Edward Snowden and Julian Assange, readers expect maximum transparency. As a leading news agency, if Kyodo really obtained Chinese People\u2019s Liberation Army (PLA) planning documents for what to do in case of North Korean collapse, they should post them online. Barring that, one would naturally expect their news report to quote extensively from the original documents. To my great disappointment, bordering on disbelief, quotation marks are merited only twice in referring to the plans, and for relatively trivial phrases. However much Kyodo saw of these documents, the next critical question is who showed it to them and why? But the report is frustratingly ambiguous as to how Kyodo learned about the contents of China\u2019s plan. There is one reference to \"Chinese military sources say\u2026\" \u2013 suggesting this was the manner in which the documents were obtained. But this is insinuated rather than explicit. This is an absolutely critical point. If a Chinese military officer (at what level? Acting on what authority?) purposefully leaked information, then the story here is that the PLA \u2013 or certain elements within the PLA \u2013 wants to send a message to Pyongyang. This is a rather indirect means of communication, but not inconceivable as a way to send an ally the unpleasant message that our patience is running thin, so don\u2019t push us too far. The PLA would be reinforcing recent Chinese foreign ministry warnings against North Korea conducting a fourth nuclear test and \u201ccausing turmoil at China\u2019s doorstep\u201d \u2013 but in a way that the foreign ministry can still vociferously deny the existence of such documents. Given the recent demotion of Choe Ryong-hae, who acted as Kim Jong-un\u2019s personal envoy to China last year, and the dramatic execution of previous China envoy Jang Song-taek, such circuitous signalling might also be related to Chinese frustration at the lack of direct channels to Pyongyang. But what if Kyodo\u2019s report is not based on a PLA leak? Then we have to ask where they got what purports to be highly classified information. The most nearby source of course would be Japanese; South Korean or American origin would also be logical, and the purpose would probably be to sow doubt about North Korean stability (even their ally, the Chinese, are preparing for imminent collapse!) and/or destabilise the China-North Korea relationship. The Chinese foreign ministry suggested as much when asked about the Kyodo report. It would be woefully irresponsible of the PLA not to have drafted contingency plans for numerous scenarios on their northeast borderOn the one hand, Beijing\u2019s denial of such plans is hard to believe \u2013 it would be woefully irresponsible of the PLA not to have drafted and periodically revise contingency plans for numerous scenarios on their north-east border (North Korean collapse being just one of those scenarios). On the other hand, the foreign ministry\u2019s contention that the story was planted \"for ulterior motives\" could very well be true.By revealing so little of the supposed documents and obfuscating the facts of their acquisition, the Kyodo report in the end tells us very little about Chinese assessments of North Korea\u2019s stability or its planning process for how to deal with various destabilising scenarios that could occur along their 800 mile border. The sparse details mentioned in the report about setting up refugee camps, dispatching reconnaissance teams, and offering safe haven to exiled North Korean leaders are too vague to be of much edification. Does Kyodo actually have these documents in hand? Did a PLA source leak them as a warning to Pyongyang? Or did a third party disclose a few details from \"documents\" for their own reasons? Without more extensive reporting from Kyodo, there is no way to tell. And until then, there is not much to learn here, except another reminder that just about every catchy North Korea headline should add a warning \u2013 Caution: Contents May Have Shifted During Flight.John Delury is an assistant professor at Yonsei University GSIS and author of Wealth & Power: China's Long March to the Twenty-First Century. Follow on Twitter @johndeluryOne of the things you quickly realise from travelling along the full length of the Chinese border with North Korea is just how much of North Korea there is. China\u2019s boundary stretches along four northern frontier provinces of the DPRK, stretching for hundreds of kilometres along the Yalu and Tumen rivers. Along those tributaries, there are at least five good-sized North Korean cities (Sinuiju, Manpo, Hyesan, Musan, and Hoeryong) which could easily absorb China\u2019s attention during a crisis.Whilst we tend to imagine a wholesale collapse scenario where chaos radiates outward from Pyongyang, we might better examine the possibility of chaos farther from the bright and labyrinthine capital city \u2013 and far closer to China. For instance, we might see a chemical accident in Sinuiju, \u201cterrorism\u201d directed at Kimist monuments in Hyesan, the forcible expropriation of Chinese mining concerns within the DPRK, a nuclear accident or even a volcanic eruption.China is of course planning to handle such problems, but not for the first time.China is of course planning to handle such problems, but not for the first time. Documents in the Chinese Foreign Ministry Archive describe China\u2019s intensive interactions with the DPRK during the last full-scale collapse scenario in 1950. China was able to absorb about 10,000 North Korean refugees on either end of the border, and the DPRK was pressing to set up consulates up and down the frontier so that they could themselves keep track of the outflow. At that time, North Korean military units moved into Chinese territory to escape bombing by US planes \u2013 such as happened in Hyesan.The North Koreans have hardly forgotten the war or China\u2019s massive aid and stationing of troops until 1958, but the recent warming between Seoul and Beijing is clearly troubling; Kim Jong-un\u2019s level of trust in Chinese comrades is as limited as his contact with them. The international community needs to understand that North Korea doesn\u2019t simply fear American nuclear missiles, nuclear submarines, and nuclear-capable bombers; the country\u2019s leadership also is concerned about falling unwillingly into the embrace of its huge northern neighbour.Travels to the frontier region, and conversations with China\u2019s own North Korea experts, help to contextualise that the real struggle along that frontier is likely to be above all economic and cultural. But China does need to be ready for a catastrophe; appearing helpless before its own population in the face of the North Korean equivalent of Fukushima is not a scenario the Chinese Communist Party wants to face.Adam Cathcart is a lecturer in Chinese History at University of Leeds, and Editor-in-Chief of SinoNK.comHow can China not be preparing for the possible collapse of the North Korean regime? Especially now, when things are so different compared to how they were under Kim Jong-il. The Pyongyang power structures have changed so much, and China knows this more than any other country. Kim Jong-un does not have the same level of control as his father did. It is like North Korea is wearing full-frontal Kevlar riot gear, but at the back it is naked. All the world focuses on the Kevlar, and does not seem to see the extreme weakness.I believe that within the next five years we will see major changes in North Korea, and how China responds to this in particular will have great bearing on North Korea\u2019s future. The borders [between the two countries] are already more porous - of course China must prepare for the what the regime\u2019s collapse could bring. In the meantime, the international community should be focussing on the human rights situation within North Korea, and trying to understand the country better. This is key to bringing real change to the people.  Jang Jin-Sung was a propaganda poet for Kim Jong-il's regime before he defected in 2004. He is now director of the North Korean news outlet New Focus and author of Dear Leader, published by Rider", "tags": ["North Korea", "China", "South Korea", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "Is China losing faith in North Korea?"},{"date": "2014-04-25T15:58:25Z", "country": "china", "content": "Chinese legislators have passed the first amendments to the country\u2019s environmental protection law in 25 years, promising greater powers forenvironmental authorities and harsher punishments for polluters.The amendments, which the Standing Committee of National People\u2019sCongress passed on Thursday after two years of debate, will allowauthorities to detain company bosses for 15 days if they do notcomplete environmental impact assessments or ignore warnings to stoppolluting. The new law will come into practice on 1 January.Since China\u2019s environmental protection law was passed in 1989, thecountry has become the world\u2019s second-largest economy and its biggestcarbon emitter; decades of breakneck economic growth have left many of its rivers desiccated and its cities perennially shrouded in smog.Over the past year, the Chinese government has begun to emphasiseenvironmental protection in its official rhetoric. The new law \u201csetsenvironmental protection as the country\u2019s basic policy,\u201d state news agency Xinhua reported.At an annual parliamentary meeting in March, premier Li Keqiang saidthat the government will \u201cresolutely declare war against pollution aswe declared war against poverty\u201d.Yet environmental groups say that China\u2019s greatest environmentalproblems arise from a gap between legislation and implementation.\u201cIf you look at China\u2019s air pollution or water pollution control laws,they\u2019re pretty good compared to global standards,\u201d said Ma Tianjie,program director for mainland work at Greenpeace East Asia. \u201cBut nomatter how good [the laws] look on paper, the true test will always bethe willingness of local authorities to enforce them.\u201dThe amended law will remove limits on fines for polluting factories,which are currently so low that many enterprises prefer to pay themthan take long-term anti-pollution measures. It will also encourage\u201cstudies on the impact environmental quality causes on public health,urging prevention and control of pollution-related diseases,\u201d Xinhuareported.\u201cLocal officials may be demoted or sacked, if they are guilty ofmisconduct, including covering up environment-related wrongdoing,\u201d the newswire reported. \u201cIf offenders' behaviors constitute crimes, theywill be held criminally responsible.\u201dThis month, Chinese environmental researchers concluded that nearly60% of the country\u2019s groundwater quality is either \u201crelatively poor\u201dor \u201cvery poor\u201d. A separate official report claimed that 16% of thecountry\u2019s land is polluted, some of it with chemicals such as arsenicand mercury. Earlier this month, dangerous levels of the carcinogenicchemical benzene were detected in the northwestern city Lanzhou\u2019swater supply, triggering a run on bottled water.Reducing the country\u2019s noxious smog has also become a challenge forgrowth-minded local officials. On Thursday, the UK shadow climate change minister Baroness Byrony Worthington led a well-attended \"trainingcourse\" for Chinese mayors on strategies for combatting air pollution.\u201cEvery single person we\u2019ve met so far has mentioned the words, \u2018smoggy weather,\u2019\u201d said Worthington, who is on a four-day trip to Chinarepresenting Globe International, an organisation of legislatorsfocused on sustainable development. \u201cThey fear that the external worldis pointing and laughing at this stage which China\u2019s environment hasreached \u2013 it\u2019s a kind of loss of face.\u201d", "tags": ["Pollution", "Environment", "China", "World news", "Greenhouse gas emissions"], "title": "China strengthens environmental laws"},{"date": "2014-06-06T00:11:30Z", "country": "china", "content": "The 2014 Lowy Institute Poll, released this week, demonstrates that when it comes to China, Australians feel very conflicted.On the one hand, Australians\u2019 feelings towards China are as warm as they have ever been in 10 years of Lowy Institute polling. Remarkably, Australians believe that China has as much of a claim to the title of \"Australia\u2019s best friend in Asia\" as Japan has \u2013 and a greater claim than Singapore, Indonesia, India or South Korea.On the other hand, nearly half (48%) of Australians believe it is likely that China will become a military threat to Australia in the next 20 years. More than half (56%) believe the government allows too much foreign investment from China.And China\u2019s powerful new leader, president Xi Jinping, hardly registers in the Australian public consciousness. When asked to rate a series of world leaders, only 2% of Australians said they admired Xi a lot, and 15% admired him a little. A full 64% did not know of Xi or had no view of him.It is remarkable that so many Australians believe we may soon be threatened militarily by a country that many of us today see as our best friend in Asia. But it is also understandable that Australia and China should not have a complete meeting of the minds. On the one hand, there is much for Australians to admire about China\u2019s development. In the past three decades, China has remade its economy, driven extraordinary productivity increases, and in so doing raised hundreds of millions of people out of poverty. This last achievement should not be ignored by China\u2019s critics.China\u2019s economic growth and its appetite for natural resources has, of course, put a good deal of money into Australians\u2019 pockets in recent years. Increasingly, flows of trade and investment flows are being matched by flows of people, as Australian and Chinese tourists discover each others\u2019 countries.On the other hand, our two countries remain starkly different. There are limits to the level of intimacy that can be achieved between a democracy and a non-democracy. This week\u2019s anniversary of Tiananmen Square is a reminder that internal conditions in China have the potential to derail the bilateral relationship.Furthermore, China\u2019s external behaviour has taken a more assertive turn of late. Last year, China unilaterally announced an air defence identification zone over the East China Sea, provoking strong responses from Australia and other countries. In early February, Chinese warships conducted their first military exercises in the waters immediately to Australia\u2019s north.Given the uncertainty about China\u2019s future behaviour, it makes good sense for us to invest in our alliance with the United States and encourage its \"rebalance\" towards Asia. But this does not mean we should run down our relationship with China; on the contrary, we should thicken it.What can we do to take the Australia-China relationship to the next level?The strategic partnership delivered by former prime minister Julia Gillard in 2013 was a good start. Australian and Chinese political leaders do not know each other well enough. Now Australian and Chinese leaders are due to hold annual meetings each year and Cabinet-level strategic dialogues on foreign policy and economics are also meant to take place. The Lowy Institute has long argued for this kind of arrangements to build trust between the political elites of the two countries.In April, prime minister Tony Abbott pulled off a successful visit to Beijing. Taking a leaf from John Howard\u2019s book, he stayed away from human rights and focused instead on areas of common interest, in particular economic ties. He was assisted by the professionalism showed by Australian agencies in the search for MH370 \u2013 a topic in which the Chinese leadership is intensely interested.This November, president Xi is due to visit to Australia in November for the G20 Leaders Summit. Hopefully he will stay for longer than the summit, and see more of Australia than Brisbane.When it comes to Asian security, Canberra needs to walk a fine line. We should not get caught up in bilateral disputes in which we cannot make a material difference \u2013 but we should not back off from defending our own interests and values. I have never heard a sinologist say that the one thing the Chinese respect is weakness.The worst thing we could do is lead the Chinese to believe we will pre-emptively downgrade our alliance relationship with Washington in order to curry favour with Beijing. That is never going to happen and any hints to the contrary will only lead to disappointment down the track. China appreciates clarity and consistency in its relations with other countries, and Australia owes it no less than that.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Australian politics", "China", "Foreign policy", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Are Australia and China frenemies? | Michael Fullilove"},{"date": "2014-06-12T07:45:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "While promoting Disney hit Maleficent in Shanghai, Angelina Jolie has upset some Chinese people by naming her favourite Chinese director as Ang Lee, who was born in Taiwan.\"I am not sure if you consider Ang Lee Chinese, he's Taiwanese, but he does many Chinese-language films with many Chinese artists and actors,\" Jolie said. \"I think his works and the actors in his films are the ones I am most familiar with and very fond of.\"By suggesting that Taiwan and China are totally separate countries, Jolie has angered Chinese communists who feel that Taiwan is a rogue state that belongs to the People's Republic of China (PRC). Taiwan is instead governed by the Republic of China, who were ousted from governing the whole of China in 1949; the PRC doesn't recognise its sovereignty, and claims Taiwan as its own province. Relations are frosty but calm between the two powers, but culturally there remain deep divisions.\"In a moment of excitement, a brilliant woman became a stupid laughing stock,\" wrote one user of social media service Weibo, while another described her as a \"deranged Taiwan independence supporter\". Another suggested that anyone seeing Maleficent would be \"traitorious\". In Taiwan meanwhile, she received support, with one person writing: \"Her comment about Ang Lee being Taiwanese shows she fully deserves to be the goodwill ambassador for the UN. She is not afraid to tell the truth.\"Her husband Brad Pitt also faced the ire of China after he appeared in the film Seven Years in Tibet, which gave a sympathetic portrayal of the Dalai Lama, who repudiated China's ownership of the region. Pitt was allegedly placed on a travel blacklist that banned him from visiting the country (along with Martin Scorsese following his Tibet film Kundun), though he accompanied Jolie on her current promotional trip.Jolie also appeared in London this week at the End Sexual Violence in Conflict summit, where she met with victims of rape. \"I've met survivors and spent time with them. I'd heard their stories and became very emotionally involved and I thought, What can I possibly do to help?\" she told Women's Hour on Radio 4. Jolie founded the Preventing Sexual Violence Initiative with foreign secretary William Hague in 2012, and the pair will now launch a set of guidance notes on how to strengthen prosecutions in rape cases from conflict regions.", "tags": ["Maleficent", "Angelina Jolie", "Film", "China", "Taiwan", "Culture"], "title": "Angelina Jolie angers Chinese nationalists with Taiwan comments"},{"date": "2014-05-27T04:13:56Z", "country": "china", "content": "A Chinese fishing vessel rammed and sank a Vietnamese fishing boat in the disputed South China Sea, Vietnamese state media reported Tuesday, in an incident likely to sharpen already dangerously high tensions between the two nations over their overlapping claims in the waters.The reports in the Tuoi Tre newspaper and other media said the incident occurred about 18 miles (30km) from a large oil rig China deployed on 1 May in a section of the sea claimed by both countries. The move by Beijing infuriated Hanoi and set off violent anti-China protests. China's official Xinhua news agency countered that the Vietnamese vessel capsized after \"harassing and colliding\" with the Chinese boat.  \"Crew aboard the boat were saved after their ship jostled a fishing boat from Dongfang city in southern China's Hainan province and overturned in the waters near China's Xisha Islands,\" Xinhua said, citing a government source.China's government had launched solemn representations with Vietnam over the incident, Xinhua said.A Vietnamese coastguard officer said earlier on Tuesday that the Chinese boat had rammed and sunk the Vietnamese fishing vessel. Vietnam sent patrol ships to confront the rig and China has deployed scores of vessels to protect it. The two sides have been involved in a tense standoff, with boats occasionally colliding. The countries have long sparred over who owns what in the oil and gas-rich waters. Incidents between fishing crews are common. Tuoi Tre said about 40 Chinese fishing boats surrounded a group of Vietnamese vessels on Monday afternoon. One rammed into the Vietnamese, tossing 10 fishermen into the water and sinking the boat. The fishermen were picked by the other Vietnamese boats and there were no injuries. Since 1 May Vietnam has accused China of ramming into or firing water cannon at Vietnamese vessels trying to get close to the rig, damaging several boats and injuring fisheries surveillance officers. Vietnamese authorities have shown video footage of some of the incidents. China accuses Vietnam of doing the same.China claims nearly all of the South China Sea as its own, bringing it into conflict with the far smaller nations of Vietnam, the Philippines and three others that have rival claims. In recent years it has been more assertive in pressing its claims in the waters and resisting attempts to negotiate.The United States, which has launched its own military \"pivot to Asia\" partly in response to China's rising military might, called the deployment of the rig \"provocative\".Vietnam is trying to rally regional and international support against Beijing but its options are limited because China is its largest trading partner.Reuters and the Associated Press contributed to this report", "tags": ["Vietnam", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "South China Sea"], "title": "Vietnam accuses China as boat sinks"},{"date": "2014-05-15T06:16:21Z", "country": "china", "content": "Violent reaction in Vietnam to China's expansionist stance in disputed seas has turned deadly with reports that 20 or more people have been killed during rioting that began with attacks on foreign-owned factories.A top Taiwanese diplomat said rioters had stormed a large Taiwanese steel mill in Vietnam, killing at least one Chinese worker and injuring 90 more. Huang Chih-peng said the violence took place late on Wednesday and early Thursday at the Formosa steel mill in central Vietnam.A doctor at a hospital in the central Vietnamese province of Ha Tinh said five Vietnamese workers and 16 other people described as Chinese died during anti-China rioting on Wednesday night. \"There were about a hundred people sent to the hospital last night. Many were Chinese. More are being sent to the hospital this morning,\" the doctor told the Reuters news agency by phone. Cambodia said hundreds of Chinese nationals had poured across the border from Vietnam to escape the riots. \"Yesterday more than 600 Chinese people from Vietnam crossed at Bavet international checkpoint into Cambodia,\" Kirt Chantharith, a police spokesman, told the Reuters news agency. Bavet is on a highway stretching from Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam's commercial centre, to Cambodia's capital, Phnom Penh. Earlier this week mobs burned and looted scores of foreign-owned factories in southern Vietnam, believing they were Chinese-run when many were actually Taiwanese or South Korean. No deaths were reported in those initial attacks.On Thursday China's embassy in Vietnam urged the country's public security authorities to take \"effective measures\" to protect its nationals' personal safety and legal rights. The embassy made the remark in a statement published on its website, adding that China had launched an emergency mechanism to cope with the effects of anti-Chinese riots in its southern neighbour. In Washington the visiting Chinese army chief, General Fang Fenghui, reacted to the situation by accusing the US of stoking tensions in the region. In response the US vice-president, Joe Biden, said the US was \"seriously concerned\" about what he called China's unilateral actions in its maritime dispute with Vietnam.Anti-Chinese sentiment has been running high in Vietnam ever since Beijing deployed an oil rig into disputed waters in the South China Sea on 1 May. There have been encounters including ramming and exchanges of water cannon between Chinese vessels operating near the rig and boats from Vietnam, which wants China out of the area.China\u2019s foreign minister, Wang Yi, \u201curged Vietnam not to attempt to further complicate and aggravate the current maritime friction\u201d, the state-run Global Times newspaper reported on Thursday.\"China's position on safeguarding its legitimate sovereign rights and interests is firm and clear and will not change,\" he told Indonesia\u2019s foreign affairs minister Marty Natalegawa in a phone conversation, the Global Times said.The newspaper condemned the protests in an editorial, calling them \u201cthe most stunning attack [on] foreign businesses in East Asia in recent years\u201d.\u201cThe turmoil is the outcome of Hanoi's years of anti-China propaganda,\u201d it said. \u201cWithout legitimate grounds and practical capability, Vietnam fabricates and hypes up its jurisdiction over the Xisha and Nansha islands. This uncompromising stance, in an attempt to bring its people together, has actually cornered itself.\u201dIn 2012 Chinese authorities permitted large-scale anti-Japan protests amid rising tensions between the two countries over competing territorial claims in the East China Sea. Protesters in cities across the country vandalised Japanese shops and smashed Japanese-made cars before authorities ordered them to disperse.China\u2019s propaganda authorities are censoring coverage of the protests, according to a leaked circular obtained by the online magazine China Digital Times. \u201cAbsolutely do not report on any news related to \u2018Chinese-funded enterprises in Vietnam being attacked by Vietnamese,\u2019\u201d it said. \u201cDo not republish foreign coverage.\u201d", "tags": ["Vietnam", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "South China Sea"], "title": "Anti-China riots turn deadly in Vietnam"},{"date": "2014-05-09T10:07:15Z", "country": "china", "content": "When Japanese media reported that it had been leaked copies of China's contingency plans for the collapse of North Korea, some more excitable reports suggested that it could soon be \"all over\" for Kim Jong-un's regime. We asked a panel of North Korean experts whether they thought the documents were genuine and, if so, what could be concluded from a leak of this sort. One aspect of the leaked Chinese contingency plan is monumental \u2013 if it were true. But it is so implausible it suggests this report must be bogus.We have heard only vague details about the plan. Apparently it envisions a scenario in which North Korea\u2019s government collapses after foreign military forces enter the country. As the Guardian reported: \u201cThe possible causes of upheaval in the North include an attack by an unnamed foreign force that triggers the collapse of the regime, sending civilians and soldiers across the border with China.\u201d The plan then apparently goes on to discuss various Chinese responses, such as setting up refugee camps, detaining North Korean elites, and preventing armed members of the North Korean military from entering China.Take a step back and think about the scenario on which this plan is based. It suggests that if foreign military forces (presumably the United States and South Korea) invaded North Korea, China would not react by coming to the defence of North Korea (as it is obliged to do as Pyongyang\u2019s ally) but would allow the regime to be conquered and/or collapse. Only after this collapse would China act \u2013 not on North Korea\u2019s behalf, but to ensure that instability does not spread into China.If this were true \u2013 that China would not act in defence of North Korea at the time of an invasion \u2013 this is momentous news. But there are two reasons why this makes no senseIf this were true \u2013 that China would not act in defence of North Korea at the time of an invasion \u2013 this is momentous news indeed. But there are two reasons why this makes no sense, thus suggesting that the report is bogus.First, if China did decide to abandon its military alliance with North Korea, it would not announce this through a leak in this odd way. Putting aside whether or not China might actually do this (which is a whole other issue), the way in which Beijing would go about this momentous policy change would be to convey it very privately to US and South Korean leaders.Secondly, the United States and South Korea have long urged China to pressure the North Korean government, to punish or deter it from engaging in destabilising behaviour (missile and nuclear tests, the use of force, and so forth). A Chinese abrogation of its alliance with North Korea would be quite welcome news to those countries \u2013 and thus presumably Beijing would never do it without negotiating significant concessions from Seoul and Washington.China would never, in other words, give this away for free. Thus the sheer improbability of what would constitute a truly monumental policy change \u2013 let alone the way the change was communicated \u2013 casts doubt on the veracity of the leaked report.Here\u2019s what we know for sure. North Korea has limped by despite its poverty and weakness, and may continue to do so for decades to come. Or it might collapse next week.Here\u2019s what we know for sure. North Korea has limped by despite its poverty and weakness, and may continue to do so for decades to come. Or it might collapse next week. If the government does collapse, the Korean peninsula could erupt in a humanitarian, political and military crisis that threatens the broader stability of East Asia.Bruce W Bennett, of the thinktank Rand, and I modelled the military missions that countries might perform in the event of North Korean collapse. We calculated that stabilising the peninsula could require hundreds of thousands of troops. Drawing up contingency plans (as the United States, South Korea and, yes, also China have all been doing) is therefore vital. But even more importantly, those countries need to have a dialogue about this contingency, to mitigate the dangers that it might create in East Asian international relations.Jennifer Lind is an associate professor of government at Dartmouth College and the author of Sorry States: Apologies in International Politics (Cornell University Press, 2008). Follow on Twitter @profLindThe leaked news that Beijing has drawn up significant contingency plans in the event of a regime collapse in North Korea (DPRK) reflects just how little Kim Jong-un has managed to reassure the Chinese authorities that he is securely in power. Clearly China believes his hold on power to be fragile.We\u2019ve been here before. Ramping up of contingency plans for a crisis on China\u2019s border with the DPRK has occurred previously when Beijing\u2019s analysts have felt collapse may be imminent. In 2003, in the wake of a failed economic reform programme, initiated by Kim Jong-il, and a growing nuclear crisis, a large contingent of People\u2019s Liberation Army (PLA) troops were moved into the border region of Yanbian in China\u2019s south-eastern Jilin Province. High voltage fences were erected along portions of the rather porous border to prevent an escalation in defections across the Yalu River.Clearly China believes Kim Jong-un's hold on power to be fragile.China\u2019s plans come hot on the heels of a flurry of renewed interest in the North from Seoul and are, in part, probably a reaction to it. The South Korean president, Park Geun-hye, Beijing clearly worries about a massive influx of refugees and an ousted Kim3 trying to re-establish his power base from Chinese soil; Seoul knows it would face a humanitarian disaster that would cost multiples of German reunification and perilously threaten the South\u2019s economy.The presence of 30,000 or so American GIs in the South moving up to China\u2019s borders obviously alarms the PLA, while Seoul wonders what it would do with the DPRK\u2019s 1.2m-man army and the possibility of \u201clast ditch\u201d attacks on its territory.The fact is though that now is a time to plan for collapse.The fact is, though, that now is a time to plan for collapse. Kim Jong-un has not achieved the status of his father and grandfather as yet. His purging of senior cadres has led to nervousness among the higher echelons of power in Pyongyang and not consolidation. His half-hearted economic reforms (the so-called \u201c6.28 Policy\u201d of handing more control to agricultural co-operatives and a \u201cQuality of Life\u201d initiative to more widely distribute consumer goods) have both failed. The North remains mired in poverty, food insecurity and with an uncertain leadership.That China should be heightening its preparations for a collapse across the Yalu, and directly warning the North to avoid \"chaos\", is important. It reveals that Beijing believes the economic and political situation to be worsening and that elements on the North\u2019s ruling Korean Workers\u2019 Party that have been urging more wholesale economic reform (known loosely in Beijing as the Chrysanthemum Group) are distinctly on the back foot, if not now almost wholly purged. It also indicates that Beijing now believes that any return to the economic reform programme of 2002, instigated by Kim Jong-il, is now off the cards. Those reforms, which ultimately failed, did include the seeds of a Chinese style \"reform and opening up\" policy but went nowhere near far enough. Kim Jong-un has little to offer in the way of policy except more of the same \"Arduous march\u201d North Koreans have had to endure since 1993.Paul French is the author of North Korea: State of Paranoia, published by Zed Books. Follow on Twitter @StateofParanoiaThis leak of documents outlining how the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) would respond to a collapse in North Korea does not necessarily mean that China thinks that such a collapse is now more likely. It is more probable that the leak's timing was determined by internal Chinese debates. In late 2013, China was showing signs of greater openness in discussing what to do if North Korea collapsed. But in early spring 2014 this changed, and Chinese officials have since then been very reluctant to discuss the possibility that North Korea might collapse, let alone contingencies for such an event. (Perhaps this was because of rising tensions with Japan and a consequent Chinese reluctance to risk irritating North Korea, its only ally, by discussing that country's possible demise).Whatever the reasons for this leak it will infuriate North Korea, whose ties with China are already strained.This change must have been very frustrating to the PLA, who would have to deal in the first instance with the fallout of any North Korean collapse, and who therefore need clear direction from the civilian political leadership on what they should do. So perhaps the PLA leaked these documents so as to force the civilian leadership into a proper debate on these difficult issues. (The sharp response to the leak by the Chinese ministry of foreign affairs, which has no love for the PLA, supports this view. Its Asia directorate has been strongly against allowing even an internal debate on a North Korean collapse, let alone a discussion with foreigners).I suspect that the PLA's move will be welcomed in both Washington and Seoul, both of whom have been pressing the Chinese to share thoughts on contingencies so as to avoid possibly dangerous misunderstandings in the inevitable confusion of such a collapse.The document is significant too for what it does not say. On several occasions South Korea has worried aloud that, should North Korea collapse, Chinese troops might enter North Korea to maintain stability there. As far as I can tell without seeing the full document (which has not been published), these plans envisage no such move. It is possible therefore that the PLA leaked them in part so as to reassure South Korea, a country with which China now enjoys very good relations and with whose president senior Chinese leaders seem to have a warm personal rapport.Whatever the reasons for this leak it will infuriate North Korea, whose ties with China are already strained. There have been reports of a placard in North Korea's main military academy reading \u201cThe Chinese are traitors and are our enemies\u201d and Chinese attempts to disown the leaked documents are unlikely to persuade North Koreans to change this view. Sadly this leak may well increase the chances that North Korea does go ahead with a fourth nuclear test.The Pentagon recently noted what appear to be the final preparations for a detonation at North Korea's nuclear test site and, sadly, this leak \u2013 which will reinforce North Korea's belief that it is isolated and needs to be strong in a hostile world \u2013 may well increase the chances that North Korea does go ahead with a fourth nuclear test.John Everard was the British ambassador to North Korea from 2006 to 2008Kyodo\u2019s report about leaked Chinese military documents outlining what to do in the case of a North Korean collapse raises more questions than it answers.In the age of Edward Snowden and Julian Assange, readers expect maximum transparency. As a leading news agency, if Kyodo really obtained Chinese People\u2019s Liberation Army (PLA) planning documents for what to do in case of North Korean collapse, they should post them online. Barring that, one would naturally expect their news report to quote extensively from the original documents. To my great disappointment, bordering on disbelief, quotation marks are merited only twice in referring to the plans, and for relatively trivial phrases. However much Kyodo saw of these documents, the next critical question is who showed it to them and why? But the report is frustratingly ambiguous as to how Kyodo learned about the contents of China\u2019s plan. There is one reference to \"Chinese military sources say\u2026\" \u2013 suggesting this was the manner in which the documents were obtained. But this is insinuated rather than explicit. This is an absolutely critical point. If a Chinese military officer (at what level? Acting on what authority?) purposefully leaked information, then the story here is that the PLA \u2013 or certain elements within the PLA \u2013 wants to send a message to Pyongyang. This is a rather indirect means of communication, but not inconceivable as a way to send an ally the unpleasant message that our patience is running thin, so don\u2019t push us too far. The PLA would be reinforcing recent Chinese foreign ministry warnings against North Korea conducting a fourth nuclear test and \u201ccausing turmoil at China\u2019s doorstep\u201d \u2013 but in a way that the foreign ministry can still vociferously deny the existence of such documents. Given the recent demotion of Choe Ryong-hae, who acted as Kim Jong-un\u2019s personal envoy to China last year, and the dramatic execution of previous China envoy Jang Song-taek, such circuitous signalling might also be related to Chinese frustration at the lack of direct channels to Pyongyang. But what if Kyodo\u2019s report is not based on a PLA leak? Then we have to ask where they got what purports to be highly classified information. The most nearby source of course would be Japanese; South Korean or American origin would also be logical, and the purpose would probably be to sow doubt about North Korean stability (even their ally, the Chinese, are preparing for imminent collapse!) and/or destabilise the China-North Korea relationship. The Chinese foreign ministry suggested as much when asked about the Kyodo report. It would be woefully irresponsible of the PLA not to have drafted contingency plans for numerous scenarios on their northeast borderOn the one hand, Beijing\u2019s denial of such plans is hard to believe \u2013 it would be woefully irresponsible of the PLA not to have drafted and periodically revise contingency plans for numerous scenarios on their north-east border (North Korean collapse being just one of those scenarios). On the other hand, the foreign ministry\u2019s contention that the story was planted \"for ulterior motives\" could very well be true.By revealing so little of the supposed documents and obfuscating the facts of their acquisition, the Kyodo report in the end tells us very little about Chinese assessments of North Korea\u2019s stability or its planning process for how to deal with various destabilising scenarios that could occur along their 800 mile border. The sparse details mentioned in the report about setting up refugee camps, dispatching reconnaissance teams, and offering safe haven to exiled North Korean leaders are too vague to be of much edification. Does Kyodo actually have these documents in hand? Did a PLA source leak them as a warning to Pyongyang? Or did a third party disclose a few details from \"documents\" for their own reasons? Without more extensive reporting from Kyodo, there is no way to tell. And until then, there is not much to learn here, except another reminder that just about every catchy North Korea headline should add a warning \u2013 Caution: Contents May Have Shifted During Flight.John Delury is an assistant professor at Yonsei University GSIS and author of Wealth & Power: China's Long March to the Twenty-First Century. Follow on Twitter @johndeluryOne of the things you quickly realise from travelling along the full length of the Chinese border with North Korea is just how much of North Korea there is. China\u2019s boundary stretches along four northern frontier provinces of the DPRK, stretching for hundreds of kilometres along the Yalu and Tumen rivers. Along those tributaries, there are at least five good-sized North Korean cities (Sinuiju, Manpo, Hyesan, Musan, and Hoeryong) which could easily absorb China\u2019s attention during a crisis.Whilst we tend to imagine a wholesale collapse scenario where chaos radiates outward from Pyongyang, we might better examine the possibility of chaos farther from the bright and labyrinthine capital city \u2013 and far closer to China. For instance, we might see a chemical accident in Sinuiju, \u201cterrorism\u201d directed at Kimist monuments in Hyesan, the forcible expropriation of Chinese mining concerns within the DPRK, a nuclear accident or even a volcanic eruption.China is of course planning to handle such problems, but not for the first time.China is of course planning to handle such problems, but not for the first time. Documents in the Chinese Foreign Ministry Archive describe China\u2019s intensive interactions with the DPRK during the last full-scale collapse scenario in 1950. China was able to absorb about 10,000 North Korean refugees on either end of the border, and the DPRK was pressing to set up consulates up and down the frontier so that they could themselves keep track of the outflow. At that time, North Korean military units moved into Chinese territory to escape bombing by US planes \u2013 such as happened in Hyesan.The North Koreans have hardly forgotten the war or China\u2019s massive aid and stationing of troops until 1958, but the recent warming between Seoul and Beijing is clearly troubling; Kim Jong-un\u2019s level of trust in Chinese comrades is as limited as his contact with them. The international community needs to understand that North Korea doesn\u2019t simply fear American nuclear missiles, nuclear submarines, and nuclear-capable bombers; the country\u2019s leadership also is concerned about falling unwillingly into the embrace of its huge northern neighbour.Travels to the frontier region, and conversations with China\u2019s own North Korea experts, help to contextualise that the real struggle along that frontier is likely to be above all economic and cultural. But China does need to be ready for a catastrophe; appearing helpless before its own population in the face of the North Korean equivalent of Fukushima is not a scenario the Chinese Communist Party wants to face.Adam Cathcart is a lecturer in Chinese History at University of Leeds, and Editor-in-Chief of SinoNK.comHow can China not be preparing for the possible collapse of the North Korean regime? Especially now, when things are so different compared to how they were under Kim Jong-il. The Pyongyang power structures have changed so much, and China knows this more than any other country. Kim Jong-un does not have the same level of control as his father did. It is like North Korea is wearing full-frontal Kevlar riot gear, but at the back it is naked. All the world focuses on the Kevlar, and does not seem to see the extreme weakness.I believe that within the next five years we will see major changes in North Korea, and how China responds to this in particular will have great bearing on North Korea\u2019s future. The borders [between the two countries] are already more porous - of course China must prepare for the what the regime\u2019s collapse could bring. In the meantime, the international community should be focussing on the human rights situation within North Korea, and trying to understand the country better. This is key to bringing real change to the people.  Jang Jin-Sung was a propaganda poet for Kim Jong-il's regime before he defected in 2004. He is now director of the North Korean news outlet New Focus and author of Dear Leader, published by Rider", "tags": ["North Korea", "China", "South Korea", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "Is China losing faith in North Korea?"},{"date": "2014-05-06T17:07:47Z", "country": "china", "content": "The knife attack in which six people were injured in southern China is the third high-profile incident at a Chinese train station in a little more than two months. It seems that China is in the grip of a mounting terrorist campaign, with militants apparently able to strike when and where they want.Last week a railway station in Urumqi was attacked with suicide bombs and knives, with at least three killed and dozens injured. The authorities quickly attributed that attack to Uighur separatists. More jarring, the attack came at the end of President Xi Jinping's trip to that city for the explicit purpose of announcing a \"get tough\" policy on terrorism.That incident followed close on the heels of an eerily similar March attack in Kunming. Details are sketchy, but in that brutal episode approximately nine militants wielding knives stormed the city's railway station, killing at least 28 and wounding about a hundred.Only a few months before, that there was a high-profile attack on the most visible symbol of Chinese political authority \u2013 Tiananmen Square in Beijing. In that case, aggrieved Uighurs apparently drove across the country and mowed down tourists at the edge of the square with their Jeep before setting it on fire.While these incidents have set China on edge, they have received relatively little attention from the outside world. Western analysts tend to draw on the \"low-tech\" weaponry and comparatively low death tolls to conclude that these are minor incidents. Even specialists often miss the potential for broader international implications, seeing only an internal separatist struggle.Both of these instincts are wrong. Attacks like those in Urumqi, Kunming and Beijing are serious, and their increasing sophistication indicates a growing threat. If they continue to escalate, there is potential for far-reaching consequences for China and the world.Despite their reliance on relatively unsophisticated weapons, Uighur militants seem to have already mastered some of the most challenging problems that extremist organisations face. The ability to conduct complex, co-ordinated attacks like those in Urumqi and Kunming are hallmarks of organisational strength. Moreover, while it might seem counterintuitive, restraint is also a clear indicator of capability. Weak movements lash out without discipline and coordination, while strong ones wait for opportune moments and symbolically valuable targets. Last week's attack in Urumqi certainly fits the latter description.Timing an attack to coincide with Xi's visit to Xinjiang, explicitly to demonstrate his toughness on the separatist question, is a clear act of defiance and it set Chinese social media ablaze before the censors stepped in. The attackers dramatically undermined any remaining confidence that the authorities have this situation under control.This compounds the concern that militants will be able to project still more violence out of long-restive Xinjiang and into distant Chinese cities as they appeared to do in Kunming and Beijing. This approach makes perfect sense. Terrorism is only effective when the fear that it generates reaches its intended audience, which in this case is the Chinese public. Chinese security forces had, until this recent spate of attacks, been very successful in bottling up violence in Xinjiang and keeping it out of view, but this apparent new capability to time attacks to coincide with symbolic opportunities and strike distant Chinese population centres upsets that equilibrium.Indiscriminate attacks on civilians always warrant attention, but the evolving violence in China has under-appreciated potential to develop into global concern. When al-Qaida struck the United States on 9/11, it reshaped global politics, culminating in the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. As an emerging global power, China's response to its terrorist problem could have consequences that are nearly as far-reaching. It is often forgotten that China's restive Muslim regions border Afghanistan and Pakistan's tribal regions, putting it at the geographic centre of the \"war on terror\". The withdrawal of Nato forces from Afghanistan will leave a host of problems on China's doorstep.More troubling still, some of the most militant among the Uighurs have been active at high levels with jihadi organisations fighting in Afghanistan and Pakistan. As the west winds down its presence in Afghanistan, it would be prudent to anticipate that these militants will return their attention to China. When they do, they will bring a great deal of experience and capacity with them. China may then find itself at the mercy of militants operating from safe havens across borders, much as the US did. Only time will tell how China might respond.All this suggests that it is time to take Chinese terrorism seriously. The attackers have carried only knives and crude bombs, but they and their kind have the potential to reshape both Chinese and international politics.", "tags": ["China", "Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "Terrorism in China: the global dimension | Philip Potter"},{"date": "2014-04-25T15:58:25Z", "country": "china", "content": "Chinese legislators have passed the first amendments to the country\u2019s environmental protection law in 25 years, promising greater powers forenvironmental authorities and harsher punishments for polluters.The amendments, which the Standing Committee of National People\u2019sCongress passed on Thursday after two years of debate, will allowauthorities to detain company bosses for 15 days if they do notcomplete environmental impact assessments or ignore warnings to stoppolluting. The new law will come into practice on 1 January.Since China\u2019s environmental protection law was passed in 1989, thecountry has become the world\u2019s second-largest economy and its biggestcarbon emitter; decades of breakneck economic growth have left many of its rivers desiccated and its cities perennially shrouded in smog.Over the past year, the Chinese government has begun to emphasiseenvironmental protection in its official rhetoric. The new law \u201csetsenvironmental protection as the country\u2019s basic policy,\u201d state news agency Xinhua reported.At an annual parliamentary meeting in March, premier Li Keqiang saidthat the government will \u201cresolutely declare war against pollution aswe declared war against poverty\u201d.Yet environmental groups say that China\u2019s greatest environmentalproblems arise from a gap between legislation and implementation.\u201cIf you look at China\u2019s air pollution or water pollution control laws,they\u2019re pretty good compared to global standards,\u201d said Ma Tianjie,program director for mainland work at Greenpeace East Asia. \u201cBut nomatter how good [the laws] look on paper, the true test will always bethe willingness of local authorities to enforce them.\u201dThe amended law will remove limits on fines for polluting factories,which are currently so low that many enterprises prefer to pay themthan take long-term anti-pollution measures. It will also encourage\u201cstudies on the impact environmental quality causes on public health,urging prevention and control of pollution-related diseases,\u201d Xinhuareported.\u201cLocal officials may be demoted or sacked, if they are guilty ofmisconduct, including covering up environment-related wrongdoing,\u201d the newswire reported. \u201cIf offenders' behaviors constitute crimes, theywill be held criminally responsible.\u201dThis month, Chinese environmental researchers concluded that nearly60% of the country\u2019s groundwater quality is either \u201crelatively poor\u201dor \u201cvery poor\u201d. A separate official report claimed that 16% of thecountry\u2019s land is polluted, some of it with chemicals such as arsenicand mercury. Earlier this month, dangerous levels of the carcinogenicchemical benzene were detected in the northwestern city Lanzhou\u2019swater supply, triggering a run on bottled water.Reducing the country\u2019s noxious smog has also become a challenge forgrowth-minded local officials. On Thursday, the UK shadow climate change minister Baroness Byrony Worthington led a well-attended \"trainingcourse\" for Chinese mayors on strategies for combatting air pollution.\u201cEvery single person we\u2019ve met so far has mentioned the words, \u2018smoggy weather,\u2019\u201d said Worthington, who is on a four-day trip to Chinarepresenting Globe International, an organisation of legislatorsfocused on sustainable development. \u201cThey fear that the external worldis pointing and laughing at this stage which China\u2019s environment hasreached \u2013 it\u2019s a kind of loss of face.\u201d", "tags": ["Pollution", "Environment", "China", "World news", "Greenhouse gas emissions"], "title": "China strengthens environmental laws"},{"date": "2014-06-06T00:11:30Z", "country": "china", "content": "The 2014 Lowy Institute Poll, released this week, demonstrates that when it comes to China, Australians feel very conflicted.On the one hand, Australians\u2019 feelings towards China are as warm as they have ever been in 10 years of Lowy Institute polling. Remarkably, Australians believe that China has as much of a claim to the title of \"Australia\u2019s best friend in Asia\" as Japan has \u2013 and a greater claim than Singapore, Indonesia, India or South Korea.On the other hand, nearly half (48%) of Australians believe it is likely that China will become a military threat to Australia in the next 20 years. More than half (56%) believe the government allows too much foreign investment from China.And China\u2019s powerful new leader, president Xi Jinping, hardly registers in the Australian public consciousness. When asked to rate a series of world leaders, only 2% of Australians said they admired Xi a lot, and 15% admired him a little. A full 64% did not know of Xi or had no view of him.It is remarkable that so many Australians believe we may soon be threatened militarily by a country that many of us today see as our best friend in Asia. But it is also understandable that Australia and China should not have a complete meeting of the minds. On the one hand, there is much for Australians to admire about China\u2019s development. In the past three decades, China has remade its economy, driven extraordinary productivity increases, and in so doing raised hundreds of millions of people out of poverty. This last achievement should not be ignored by China\u2019s critics.China\u2019s economic growth and its appetite for natural resources has, of course, put a good deal of money into Australians\u2019 pockets in recent years. Increasingly, flows of trade and investment flows are being matched by flows of people, as Australian and Chinese tourists discover each others\u2019 countries.On the other hand, our two countries remain starkly different. There are limits to the level of intimacy that can be achieved between a democracy and a non-democracy. This week\u2019s anniversary of Tiananmen Square is a reminder that internal conditions in China have the potential to derail the bilateral relationship.Furthermore, China\u2019s external behaviour has taken a more assertive turn of late. Last year, China unilaterally announced an air defence identification zone over the East China Sea, provoking strong responses from Australia and other countries. In early February, Chinese warships conducted their first military exercises in the waters immediately to Australia\u2019s north.Given the uncertainty about China\u2019s future behaviour, it makes good sense for us to invest in our alliance with the United States and encourage its \"rebalance\" towards Asia. But this does not mean we should run down our relationship with China; on the contrary, we should thicken it.What can we do to take the Australia-China relationship to the next level?The strategic partnership delivered by former prime minister Julia Gillard in 2013 was a good start. Australian and Chinese political leaders do not know each other well enough. Now Australian and Chinese leaders are due to hold annual meetings each year and Cabinet-level strategic dialogues on foreign policy and economics are also meant to take place. The Lowy Institute has long argued for this kind of arrangements to build trust between the political elites of the two countries.In April, prime minister Tony Abbott pulled off a successful visit to Beijing. Taking a leaf from John Howard\u2019s book, he stayed away from human rights and focused instead on areas of common interest, in particular economic ties. He was assisted by the professionalism showed by Australian agencies in the search for MH370 \u2013 a topic in which the Chinese leadership is intensely interested.This November, president Xi is due to visit to Australia in November for the G20 Leaders Summit. Hopefully he will stay for longer than the summit, and see more of Australia than Brisbane.When it comes to Asian security, Canberra needs to walk a fine line. We should not get caught up in bilateral disputes in which we cannot make a material difference \u2013 but we should not back off from defending our own interests and values. I have never heard a sinologist say that the one thing the Chinese respect is weakness.The worst thing we could do is lead the Chinese to believe we will pre-emptively downgrade our alliance relationship with Washington in order to curry favour with Beijing. That is never going to happen and any hints to the contrary will only lead to disappointment down the track. China appreciates clarity and consistency in its relations with other countries, and Australia owes it no less than that.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Australian politics", "China", "Foreign policy", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Are Australia and China frenemies? | Michael Fullilove"},{"date": "2014-06-12T07:45:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "While promoting Disney hit Maleficent in Shanghai, Angelina Jolie has upset some Chinese people by naming her favourite Chinese director as Ang Lee, who was born in Taiwan.\"I am not sure if you consider Ang Lee Chinese, he's Taiwanese, but he does many Chinese-language films with many Chinese artists and actors,\" Jolie said. \"I think his works and the actors in his films are the ones I am most familiar with and very fond of.\"By suggesting that Taiwan and China are totally separate countries, Jolie has angered Chinese communists who feel that Taiwan is a rogue state that belongs to the People's Republic of China (PRC). Taiwan is instead governed by the Republic of China, who were ousted from governing the whole of China in 1949; the PRC doesn't recognise its sovereignty, and claims Taiwan as its own province. Relations are frosty but calm between the two powers, but culturally there remain deep divisions.\"In a moment of excitement, a brilliant woman became a stupid laughing stock,\" wrote one user of social media service Weibo, while another described her as a \"deranged Taiwan independence supporter\". Another suggested that anyone seeing Maleficent would be \"traitorious\". In Taiwan meanwhile, she received support, with one person writing: \"Her comment about Ang Lee being Taiwanese shows she fully deserves to be the goodwill ambassador for the UN. She is not afraid to tell the truth.\"Her husband Brad Pitt also faced the ire of China after he appeared in the film Seven Years in Tibet, which gave a sympathetic portrayal of the Dalai Lama, who repudiated China's ownership of the region. Pitt was allegedly placed on a travel blacklist that banned him from visiting the country (along with Martin Scorsese following his Tibet film Kundun), though he accompanied Jolie on her current promotional trip.Jolie also appeared in London this week at the End Sexual Violence in Conflict summit, where she met with victims of rape. \"I've met survivors and spent time with them. I'd heard their stories and became very emotionally involved and I thought, What can I possibly do to help?\" she told Women's Hour on Radio 4. Jolie founded the Preventing Sexual Violence Initiative with foreign secretary William Hague in 2012, and the pair will now launch a set of guidance notes on how to strengthen prosecutions in rape cases from conflict regions.", "tags": ["Maleficent", "Angelina Jolie", "Film", "China", "Taiwan", "Culture"], "title": "Angelina Jolie angers Chinese nationalists with Taiwan comments"},{"date": "2014-05-27T04:13:56Z", "country": "china", "content": "A Chinese fishing vessel rammed and sank a Vietnamese fishing boat in the disputed South China Sea, Vietnamese state media reported Tuesday, in an incident likely to sharpen already dangerously high tensions between the two nations over their overlapping claims in the waters.The reports in the Tuoi Tre newspaper and other media said the incident occurred about 18 miles (30km) from a large oil rig China deployed on 1 May in a section of the sea claimed by both countries. The move by Beijing infuriated Hanoi and set off violent anti-China protests. China's official Xinhua news agency countered that the Vietnamese vessel capsized after \"harassing and colliding\" with the Chinese boat.  \"Crew aboard the boat were saved after their ship jostled a fishing boat from Dongfang city in southern China's Hainan province and overturned in the waters near China's Xisha Islands,\" Xinhua said, citing a government source.China's government had launched solemn representations with Vietnam over the incident, Xinhua said.A Vietnamese coastguard officer said earlier on Tuesday that the Chinese boat had rammed and sunk the Vietnamese fishing vessel. Vietnam sent patrol ships to confront the rig and China has deployed scores of vessels to protect it. The two sides have been involved in a tense standoff, with boats occasionally colliding. The countries have long sparred over who owns what in the oil and gas-rich waters. Incidents between fishing crews are common. Tuoi Tre said about 40 Chinese fishing boats surrounded a group of Vietnamese vessels on Monday afternoon. One rammed into the Vietnamese, tossing 10 fishermen into the water and sinking the boat. The fishermen were picked by the other Vietnamese boats and there were no injuries. Since 1 May Vietnam has accused China of ramming into or firing water cannon at Vietnamese vessels trying to get close to the rig, damaging several boats and injuring fisheries surveillance officers. Vietnamese authorities have shown video footage of some of the incidents. China accuses Vietnam of doing the same.China claims nearly all of the South China Sea as its own, bringing it into conflict with the far smaller nations of Vietnam, the Philippines and three others that have rival claims. In recent years it has been more assertive in pressing its claims in the waters and resisting attempts to negotiate.The United States, which has launched its own military \"pivot to Asia\" partly in response to China's rising military might, called the deployment of the rig \"provocative\".Vietnam is trying to rally regional and international support against Beijing but its options are limited because China is its largest trading partner.Reuters and the Associated Press contributed to this report", "tags": ["Vietnam", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "South China Sea"], "title": "Vietnam accuses China as boat sinks"},{"date": "2014-05-15T06:16:21Z", "country": "china", "content": "Violent reaction in Vietnam to China's expansionist stance in disputed seas has turned deadly with reports that 20 or more people have been killed during rioting that began with attacks on foreign-owned factories.A top Taiwanese diplomat said rioters had stormed a large Taiwanese steel mill in Vietnam, killing at least one Chinese worker and injuring 90 more. Huang Chih-peng said the violence took place late on Wednesday and early Thursday at the Formosa steel mill in central Vietnam.A doctor at a hospital in the central Vietnamese province of Ha Tinh said five Vietnamese workers and 16 other people described as Chinese died during anti-China rioting on Wednesday night. \"There were about a hundred people sent to the hospital last night. Many were Chinese. More are being sent to the hospital this morning,\" the doctor told the Reuters news agency by phone. Cambodia said hundreds of Chinese nationals had poured across the border from Vietnam to escape the riots. \"Yesterday more than 600 Chinese people from Vietnam crossed at Bavet international checkpoint into Cambodia,\" Kirt Chantharith, a police spokesman, told the Reuters news agency. Bavet is on a highway stretching from Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam's commercial centre, to Cambodia's capital, Phnom Penh. Earlier this week mobs burned and looted scores of foreign-owned factories in southern Vietnam, believing they were Chinese-run when many were actually Taiwanese or South Korean. No deaths were reported in those initial attacks.On Thursday China's embassy in Vietnam urged the country's public security authorities to take \"effective measures\" to protect its nationals' personal safety and legal rights. The embassy made the remark in a statement published on its website, adding that China had launched an emergency mechanism to cope with the effects of anti-Chinese riots in its southern neighbour. In Washington the visiting Chinese army chief, General Fang Fenghui, reacted to the situation by accusing the US of stoking tensions in the region. In response the US vice-president, Joe Biden, said the US was \"seriously concerned\" about what he called China's unilateral actions in its maritime dispute with Vietnam.Anti-Chinese sentiment has been running high in Vietnam ever since Beijing deployed an oil rig into disputed waters in the South China Sea on 1 May. There have been encounters including ramming and exchanges of water cannon between Chinese vessels operating near the rig and boats from Vietnam, which wants China out of the area.China\u2019s foreign minister, Wang Yi, \u201curged Vietnam not to attempt to further complicate and aggravate the current maritime friction\u201d, the state-run Global Times newspaper reported on Thursday.\"China's position on safeguarding its legitimate sovereign rights and interests is firm and clear and will not change,\" he told Indonesia\u2019s foreign affairs minister Marty Natalegawa in a phone conversation, the Global Times said.The newspaper condemned the protests in an editorial, calling them \u201cthe most stunning attack [on] foreign businesses in East Asia in recent years\u201d.\u201cThe turmoil is the outcome of Hanoi's years of anti-China propaganda,\u201d it said. \u201cWithout legitimate grounds and practical capability, Vietnam fabricates and hypes up its jurisdiction over the Xisha and Nansha islands. This uncompromising stance, in an attempt to bring its people together, has actually cornered itself.\u201dIn 2012 Chinese authorities permitted large-scale anti-Japan protests amid rising tensions between the two countries over competing territorial claims in the East China Sea. Protesters in cities across the country vandalised Japanese shops and smashed Japanese-made cars before authorities ordered them to disperse.China\u2019s propaganda authorities are censoring coverage of the protests, according to a leaked circular obtained by the online magazine China Digital Times. \u201cAbsolutely do not report on any news related to \u2018Chinese-funded enterprises in Vietnam being attacked by Vietnamese,\u2019\u201d it said. \u201cDo not republish foreign coverage.\u201d", "tags": ["Vietnam", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "South China Sea"], "title": "Anti-China riots turn deadly in Vietnam"},{"date": "2014-05-09T10:07:15Z", "country": "china", "content": "When Japanese media reported that it had been leaked copies of China's contingency plans for the collapse of North Korea, some more excitable reports suggested that it could soon be \"all over\" for Kim Jong-un's regime. We asked a panel of North Korean experts whether they thought the documents were genuine and, if so, what could be concluded from a leak of this sort. One aspect of the leaked Chinese contingency plan is monumental \u2013 if it were true. But it is so implausible it suggests this report must be bogus.We have heard only vague details about the plan. Apparently it envisions a scenario in which North Korea\u2019s government collapses after foreign military forces enter the country. As the Guardian reported: \u201cThe possible causes of upheaval in the North include an attack by an unnamed foreign force that triggers the collapse of the regime, sending civilians and soldiers across the border with China.\u201d The plan then apparently goes on to discuss various Chinese responses, such as setting up refugee camps, detaining North Korean elites, and preventing armed members of the North Korean military from entering China.Take a step back and think about the scenario on which this plan is based. It suggests that if foreign military forces (presumably the United States and South Korea) invaded North Korea, China would not react by coming to the defence of North Korea (as it is obliged to do as Pyongyang\u2019s ally) but would allow the regime to be conquered and/or collapse. Only after this collapse would China act \u2013 not on North Korea\u2019s behalf, but to ensure that instability does not spread into China.If this were true \u2013 that China would not act in defence of North Korea at the time of an invasion \u2013 this is momentous news. But there are two reasons why this makes no senseIf this were true \u2013 that China would not act in defence of North Korea at the time of an invasion \u2013 this is momentous news indeed. But there are two reasons why this makes no sense, thus suggesting that the report is bogus.First, if China did decide to abandon its military alliance with North Korea, it would not announce this through a leak in this odd way. Putting aside whether or not China might actually do this (which is a whole other issue), the way in which Beijing would go about this momentous policy change would be to convey it very privately to US and South Korean leaders.Secondly, the United States and South Korea have long urged China to pressure the North Korean government, to punish or deter it from engaging in destabilising behaviour (missile and nuclear tests, the use of force, and so forth). A Chinese abrogation of its alliance with North Korea would be quite welcome news to those countries \u2013 and thus presumably Beijing would never do it without negotiating significant concessions from Seoul and Washington.China would never, in other words, give this away for free. Thus the sheer improbability of what would constitute a truly monumental policy change \u2013 let alone the way the change was communicated \u2013 casts doubt on the veracity of the leaked report.Here\u2019s what we know for sure. North Korea has limped by despite its poverty and weakness, and may continue to do so for decades to come. Or it might collapse next week.Here\u2019s what we know for sure. North Korea has limped by despite its poverty and weakness, and may continue to do so for decades to come. Or it might collapse next week. If the government does collapse, the Korean peninsula could erupt in a humanitarian, political and military crisis that threatens the broader stability of East Asia.Bruce W Bennett, of the thinktank Rand, and I modelled the military missions that countries might perform in the event of North Korean collapse. We calculated that stabilising the peninsula could require hundreds of thousands of troops. Drawing up contingency plans (as the United States, South Korea and, yes, also China have all been doing) is therefore vital. But even more importantly, those countries need to have a dialogue about this contingency, to mitigate the dangers that it might create in East Asian international relations.Jennifer Lind is an associate professor of government at Dartmouth College and the author of Sorry States: Apologies in International Politics (Cornell University Press, 2008). Follow on Twitter @profLindThe leaked news that Beijing has drawn up significant contingency plans in the event of a regime collapse in North Korea (DPRK) reflects just how little Kim Jong-un has managed to reassure the Chinese authorities that he is securely in power. Clearly China believes his hold on power to be fragile.We\u2019ve been here before. Ramping up of contingency plans for a crisis on China\u2019s border with the DPRK has occurred previously when Beijing\u2019s analysts have felt collapse may be imminent. In 2003, in the wake of a failed economic reform programme, initiated by Kim Jong-il, and a growing nuclear crisis, a large contingent of People\u2019s Liberation Army (PLA) troops were moved into the border region of Yanbian in China\u2019s south-eastern Jilin Province. High voltage fences were erected along portions of the rather porous border to prevent an escalation in defections across the Yalu River.Clearly China believes Kim Jong-un's hold on power to be fragile.China\u2019s plans come hot on the heels of a flurry of renewed interest in the North from Seoul and are, in part, probably a reaction to it. The South Korean president, Park Geun-hye, Beijing clearly worries about a massive influx of refugees and an ousted Kim3 trying to re-establish his power base from Chinese soil; Seoul knows it would face a humanitarian disaster that would cost multiples of German reunification and perilously threaten the South\u2019s economy.The presence of 30,000 or so American GIs in the South moving up to China\u2019s borders obviously alarms the PLA, while Seoul wonders what it would do with the DPRK\u2019s 1.2m-man army and the possibility of \u201clast ditch\u201d attacks on its territory.The fact is though that now is a time to plan for collapse.The fact is, though, that now is a time to plan for collapse. Kim Jong-un has not achieved the status of his father and grandfather as yet. His purging of senior cadres has led to nervousness among the higher echelons of power in Pyongyang and not consolidation. His half-hearted economic reforms (the so-called \u201c6.28 Policy\u201d of handing more control to agricultural co-operatives and a \u201cQuality of Life\u201d initiative to more widely distribute consumer goods) have both failed. The North remains mired in poverty, food insecurity and with an uncertain leadership.That China should be heightening its preparations for a collapse across the Yalu, and directly warning the North to avoid \"chaos\", is important. It reveals that Beijing believes the economic and political situation to be worsening and that elements on the North\u2019s ruling Korean Workers\u2019 Party that have been urging more wholesale economic reform (known loosely in Beijing as the Chrysanthemum Group) are distinctly on the back foot, if not now almost wholly purged. It also indicates that Beijing now believes that any return to the economic reform programme of 2002, instigated by Kim Jong-il, is now off the cards. Those reforms, which ultimately failed, did include the seeds of a Chinese style \"reform and opening up\" policy but went nowhere near far enough. Kim Jong-un has little to offer in the way of policy except more of the same \"Arduous march\u201d North Koreans have had to endure since 1993.Paul French is the author of North Korea: State of Paranoia, published by Zed Books. Follow on Twitter @StateofParanoiaThis leak of documents outlining how the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) would respond to a collapse in North Korea does not necessarily mean that China thinks that such a collapse is now more likely. It is more probable that the leak's timing was determined by internal Chinese debates. In late 2013, China was showing signs of greater openness in discussing what to do if North Korea collapsed. But in early spring 2014 this changed, and Chinese officials have since then been very reluctant to discuss the possibility that North Korea might collapse, let alone contingencies for such an event. (Perhaps this was because of rising tensions with Japan and a consequent Chinese reluctance to risk irritating North Korea, its only ally, by discussing that country's possible demise).Whatever the reasons for this leak it will infuriate North Korea, whose ties with China are already strained.This change must have been very frustrating to the PLA, who would have to deal in the first instance with the fallout of any North Korean collapse, and who therefore need clear direction from the civilian political leadership on what they should do. So perhaps the PLA leaked these documents so as to force the civilian leadership into a proper debate on these difficult issues. (The sharp response to the leak by the Chinese ministry of foreign affairs, which has no love for the PLA, supports this view. Its Asia directorate has been strongly against allowing even an internal debate on a North Korean collapse, let alone a discussion with foreigners).I suspect that the PLA's move will be welcomed in both Washington and Seoul, both of whom have been pressing the Chinese to share thoughts on contingencies so as to avoid possibly dangerous misunderstandings in the inevitable confusion of such a collapse.The document is significant too for what it does not say. On several occasions South Korea has worried aloud that, should North Korea collapse, Chinese troops might enter North Korea to maintain stability there. As far as I can tell without seeing the full document (which has not been published), these plans envisage no such move. It is possible therefore that the PLA leaked them in part so as to reassure South Korea, a country with which China now enjoys very good relations and with whose president senior Chinese leaders seem to have a warm personal rapport.Whatever the reasons for this leak it will infuriate North Korea, whose ties with China are already strained. There have been reports of a placard in North Korea's main military academy reading \u201cThe Chinese are traitors and are our enemies\u201d and Chinese attempts to disown the leaked documents are unlikely to persuade North Koreans to change this view. Sadly this leak may well increase the chances that North Korea does go ahead with a fourth nuclear test.The Pentagon recently noted what appear to be the final preparations for a detonation at North Korea's nuclear test site and, sadly, this leak \u2013 which will reinforce North Korea's belief that it is isolated and needs to be strong in a hostile world \u2013 may well increase the chances that North Korea does go ahead with a fourth nuclear test.John Everard was the British ambassador to North Korea from 2006 to 2008Kyodo\u2019s report about leaked Chinese military documents outlining what to do in the case of a North Korean collapse raises more questions than it answers.In the age of Edward Snowden and Julian Assange, readers expect maximum transparency. As a leading news agency, if Kyodo really obtained Chinese People\u2019s Liberation Army (PLA) planning documents for what to do in case of North Korean collapse, they should post them online. Barring that, one would naturally expect their news report to quote extensively from the original documents. To my great disappointment, bordering on disbelief, quotation marks are merited only twice in referring to the plans, and for relatively trivial phrases. However much Kyodo saw of these documents, the next critical question is who showed it to them and why? But the report is frustratingly ambiguous as to how Kyodo learned about the contents of China\u2019s plan. There is one reference to \"Chinese military sources say\u2026\" \u2013 suggesting this was the manner in which the documents were obtained. But this is insinuated rather than explicit. This is an absolutely critical point. If a Chinese military officer (at what level? Acting on what authority?) purposefully leaked information, then the story here is that the PLA \u2013 or certain elements within the PLA \u2013 wants to send a message to Pyongyang. This is a rather indirect means of communication, but not inconceivable as a way to send an ally the unpleasant message that our patience is running thin, so don\u2019t push us too far. The PLA would be reinforcing recent Chinese foreign ministry warnings against North Korea conducting a fourth nuclear test and \u201ccausing turmoil at China\u2019s doorstep\u201d \u2013 but in a way that the foreign ministry can still vociferously deny the existence of such documents. Given the recent demotion of Choe Ryong-hae, who acted as Kim Jong-un\u2019s personal envoy to China last year, and the dramatic execution of previous China envoy Jang Song-taek, such circuitous signalling might also be related to Chinese frustration at the lack of direct channels to Pyongyang. But what if Kyodo\u2019s report is not based on a PLA leak? Then we have to ask where they got what purports to be highly classified information. The most nearby source of course would be Japanese; South Korean or American origin would also be logical, and the purpose would probably be to sow doubt about North Korean stability (even their ally, the Chinese, are preparing for imminent collapse!) and/or destabilise the China-North Korea relationship. The Chinese foreign ministry suggested as much when asked about the Kyodo report. It would be woefully irresponsible of the PLA not to have drafted contingency plans for numerous scenarios on their northeast borderOn the one hand, Beijing\u2019s denial of such plans is hard to believe \u2013 it would be woefully irresponsible of the PLA not to have drafted and periodically revise contingency plans for numerous scenarios on their north-east border (North Korean collapse being just one of those scenarios). On the other hand, the foreign ministry\u2019s contention that the story was planted \"for ulterior motives\" could very well be true.By revealing so little of the supposed documents and obfuscating the facts of their acquisition, the Kyodo report in the end tells us very little about Chinese assessments of North Korea\u2019s stability or its planning process for how to deal with various destabilising scenarios that could occur along their 800 mile border. The sparse details mentioned in the report about setting up refugee camps, dispatching reconnaissance teams, and offering safe haven to exiled North Korean leaders are too vague to be of much edification. Does Kyodo actually have these documents in hand? Did a PLA source leak them as a warning to Pyongyang? Or did a third party disclose a few details from \"documents\" for their own reasons? Without more extensive reporting from Kyodo, there is no way to tell. And until then, there is not much to learn here, except another reminder that just about every catchy North Korea headline should add a warning \u2013 Caution: Contents May Have Shifted During Flight.John Delury is an assistant professor at Yonsei University GSIS and author of Wealth & Power: China's Long March to the Twenty-First Century. Follow on Twitter @johndeluryOne of the things you quickly realise from travelling along the full length of the Chinese border with North Korea is just how much of North Korea there is. China\u2019s boundary stretches along four northern frontier provinces of the DPRK, stretching for hundreds of kilometres along the Yalu and Tumen rivers. Along those tributaries, there are at least five good-sized North Korean cities (Sinuiju, Manpo, Hyesan, Musan, and Hoeryong) which could easily absorb China\u2019s attention during a crisis.Whilst we tend to imagine a wholesale collapse scenario where chaos radiates outward from Pyongyang, we might better examine the possibility of chaos farther from the bright and labyrinthine capital city \u2013 and far closer to China. For instance, we might see a chemical accident in Sinuiju, \u201cterrorism\u201d directed at Kimist monuments in Hyesan, the forcible expropriation of Chinese mining concerns within the DPRK, a nuclear accident or even a volcanic eruption.China is of course planning to handle such problems, but not for the first time.China is of course planning to handle such problems, but not for the first time. Documents in the Chinese Foreign Ministry Archive describe China\u2019s intensive interactions with the DPRK during the last full-scale collapse scenario in 1950. China was able to absorb about 10,000 North Korean refugees on either end of the border, and the DPRK was pressing to set up consulates up and down the frontier so that they could themselves keep track of the outflow. At that time, North Korean military units moved into Chinese territory to escape bombing by US planes \u2013 such as happened in Hyesan.The North Koreans have hardly forgotten the war or China\u2019s massive aid and stationing of troops until 1958, but the recent warming between Seoul and Beijing is clearly troubling; Kim Jong-un\u2019s level of trust in Chinese comrades is as limited as his contact with them. The international community needs to understand that North Korea doesn\u2019t simply fear American nuclear missiles, nuclear submarines, and nuclear-capable bombers; the country\u2019s leadership also is concerned about falling unwillingly into the embrace of its huge northern neighbour.Travels to the frontier region, and conversations with China\u2019s own North Korea experts, help to contextualise that the real struggle along that frontier is likely to be above all economic and cultural. But China does need to be ready for a catastrophe; appearing helpless before its own population in the face of the North Korean equivalent of Fukushima is not a scenario the Chinese Communist Party wants to face.Adam Cathcart is a lecturer in Chinese History at University of Leeds, and Editor-in-Chief of SinoNK.comHow can China not be preparing for the possible collapse of the North Korean regime? Especially now, when things are so different compared to how they were under Kim Jong-il. The Pyongyang power structures have changed so much, and China knows this more than any other country. Kim Jong-un does not have the same level of control as his father did. It is like North Korea is wearing full-frontal Kevlar riot gear, but at the back it is naked. All the world focuses on the Kevlar, and does not seem to see the extreme weakness.I believe that within the next five years we will see major changes in North Korea, and how China responds to this in particular will have great bearing on North Korea\u2019s future. The borders [between the two countries] are already more porous - of course China must prepare for the what the regime\u2019s collapse could bring. In the meantime, the international community should be focussing on the human rights situation within North Korea, and trying to understand the country better. This is key to bringing real change to the people.  Jang Jin-Sung was a propaganda poet for Kim Jong-il's regime before he defected in 2004. He is now director of the North Korean news outlet New Focus and author of Dear Leader, published by Rider", "tags": ["North Korea", "China", "South Korea", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "Is China losing faith in North Korea?"},{"date": "2014-05-06T17:07:47Z", "country": "china", "content": "The knife attack in which six people were injured in southern China is the third high-profile incident at a Chinese train station in a little more than two months. It seems that China is in the grip of a mounting terrorist campaign, with militants apparently able to strike when and where they want.Last week a railway station in Urumqi was attacked with suicide bombs and knives, with at least three killed and dozens injured. The authorities quickly attributed that attack to Uighur separatists. More jarring, the attack came at the end of President Xi Jinping's trip to that city for the explicit purpose of announcing a \"get tough\" policy on terrorism.That incident followed close on the heels of an eerily similar March attack in Kunming. Details are sketchy, but in that brutal episode approximately nine militants wielding knives stormed the city's railway station, killing at least 28 and wounding about a hundred.Only a few months before, that there was a high-profile attack on the most visible symbol of Chinese political authority \u2013 Tiananmen Square in Beijing. In that case, aggrieved Uighurs apparently drove across the country and mowed down tourists at the edge of the square with their Jeep before setting it on fire.While these incidents have set China on edge, they have received relatively little attention from the outside world. Western analysts tend to draw on the \"low-tech\" weaponry and comparatively low death tolls to conclude that these are minor incidents. Even specialists often miss the potential for broader international implications, seeing only an internal separatist struggle.Both of these instincts are wrong. Attacks like those in Urumqi, Kunming and Beijing are serious, and their increasing sophistication indicates a growing threat. If they continue to escalate, there is potential for far-reaching consequences for China and the world.Despite their reliance on relatively unsophisticated weapons, Uighur militants seem to have already mastered some of the most challenging problems that extremist organisations face. The ability to conduct complex, co-ordinated attacks like those in Urumqi and Kunming are hallmarks of organisational strength. Moreover, while it might seem counterintuitive, restraint is also a clear indicator of capability. Weak movements lash out without discipline and coordination, while strong ones wait for opportune moments and symbolically valuable targets. Last week's attack in Urumqi certainly fits the latter description.Timing an attack to coincide with Xi's visit to Xinjiang, explicitly to demonstrate his toughness on the separatist question, is a clear act of defiance and it set Chinese social media ablaze before the censors stepped in. The attackers dramatically undermined any remaining confidence that the authorities have this situation under control.This compounds the concern that militants will be able to project still more violence out of long-restive Xinjiang and into distant Chinese cities as they appeared to do in Kunming and Beijing. This approach makes perfect sense. Terrorism is only effective when the fear that it generates reaches its intended audience, which in this case is the Chinese public. Chinese security forces had, until this recent spate of attacks, been very successful in bottling up violence in Xinjiang and keeping it out of view, but this apparent new capability to time attacks to coincide with symbolic opportunities and strike distant Chinese population centres upsets that equilibrium.Indiscriminate attacks on civilians always warrant attention, but the evolving violence in China has under-appreciated potential to develop into global concern. When al-Qaida struck the United States on 9/11, it reshaped global politics, culminating in the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. As an emerging global power, China's response to its terrorist problem could have consequences that are nearly as far-reaching. It is often forgotten that China's restive Muslim regions border Afghanistan and Pakistan's tribal regions, putting it at the geographic centre of the \"war on terror\". The withdrawal of Nato forces from Afghanistan will leave a host of problems on China's doorstep.More troubling still, some of the most militant among the Uighurs have been active at high levels with jihadi organisations fighting in Afghanistan and Pakistan. As the west winds down its presence in Afghanistan, it would be prudent to anticipate that these militants will return their attention to China. When they do, they will bring a great deal of experience and capacity with them. China may then find itself at the mercy of militants operating from safe havens across borders, much as the US did. Only time will tell how China might respond.All this suggests that it is time to take Chinese terrorism seriously. The attackers have carried only knives and crude bombs, but they and their kind have the potential to reshape both Chinese and international politics.", "tags": ["China", "Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "Terrorism in China: the global dimension | Philip Potter"},{"date": "2014-05-05T05:00:05Z", "country": "china", "content": "According to research carried out by the International Comparison Programme for the World Bank, China is moving close to becoming as large an economy as the US. Its research, published last week, is the basis for the purchasing power parity (PPP) estimates that underline most comparisons between the world's economies. The evidence shows that by the end of 2011 China's economy was 87% the size of the US economy \u2013 and given the cumulative growth rates since, by the end of this year China might already be bigger. This would have many important consequences beyond the most obvious \u2013 that the US, the symbol of post-second world war democracy and western capitalist beliefs, is no longer the world's biggest economy. It would also mean that China had achieved this feat quite some years earlier than some of us were predicting.The world economic growth rate must have been stronger in the past couple of decades than previously estimated. Most, myself included, calculate global GDP growth rates in PPP terms, and if China is now the same size as the US, and is growing by between 7% and 7.5% (as it appears to have been doing for the past 12 months), then it is contributing twice as much to global GDP growth as the US. At some point I would expect the IMF, when it has had time to analyse the data, to revise upwards its estimates of world GDP.It also follows that in international terms Chinese people are on average wealthier than we previously thought, though of course this tells us nothing about the level of inequality in China, which is currently a major challenge for its authorities.According to a Financial Times report, the Chinese statistical authorities do not recognise these new estimates, which is ironic given that many western observers frequently accuse the Chinese of overestimating the strength of their economy. Being as large as the US may imply that China needs to accept more global responsibilities than it is ready for. Another consequence of these revisions is that the value of Chinese consumption and services expenditure is probably considerably higher than previously believed, something I and many\u00a0other close observers had suspected. If this is the case, then the challenge of so-called Chinese rebalancing may not be quite as tough as many currently think.If these new estimates become accepted wisdom, then a few things become much more immediate for the running of our world economy and society. First, China's position and weight within all forms of international governance \u2013 ranging from the G20 to the IMF, World Bank and General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, and all the way to the United Nations \u2013 must become bigger quicker than previously believed. This has to be accepted by China itself, which might be at the heart of its initial reluctance \u2013 it might not feel it is prepared.It is also the case that the US must be prepared to give up some of its own dominant role. In turn, this leads to a crucial philosophical issue for all western democracies, ourselves included \u2013 if the data is accurate it suggests that there is a credible alternative to our preferred western democratic model for success.This said, it is important not to lose sight of the fact that the data also concluded that other large emerging nations might be considerably larger in PPP terms than previously thought \u2013 including India, which might be number three. India is the largest populated democracy in the world, and about to get a new government that might be rather more embracing of greater global recognition than China.", "tags": ["China", "US economy", "Economics", "US economic growth and recession", "Business", "US news", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China: the world's new economic model army? | Jim O'Neill"},{"date": "2014-09-09T19:43:32Z", "country": "china", "content": "Your editorial on the selection of the chief executive of the Hong Kong special administrative region by universal suffrage (A foolish decision, 3 September) is a groundless attack on China\u2019s Hong Kong policy and lacks basic historical knowledge.According to the decision adopted by the standing committee of China\u2019s National People\u2019s Congress, starting from 2017, the selection of the Hong Kong chief executive may be implemented by universal suffrage. It means that if implemented smoothly, only 20 years after Hong Kong\u2019s return to the motherland, 5 million eligible voters of its 7 million population will be able to directly elect the chief executive through one-person-one-vote for the first time in history. It shows the rapid progress in Hong Kong\u2019s democratic development and the broad base of consensus it enjoys. Such a major step forward could only be dreamed of during the 150 years of British rule.The Sino-British joint declaration of 1984 made no mention of universal suffrage. It is the Chinese government who first proposed selection of the Hong Kong chief executive by universal suffrage, which was then clearly written into the 1990 Hong Kong Basic Law. It is thus incomprehensible how the editorial can argue \u201creasonably\u201d that \u201cChina has broken the promises it made\u201d.In conclusion, I would like to point out that the Chinese government is firmly dedicated to the development of various causes in Hong Kong, democratic politics included. At the same time, Hong Kong\u2019s political structure needs to improve by gradual and steady progress. The pressing task now is to make that first step forward and reasonably conclude the political debate that has hung over Hong Kong society for 20 years. Only thus can Hong Kong concentrate on its development and keep its competitive edge.Miao DeyuChinese embassy, London", "tags": ["Hong Kong", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "China"], "title": "Hong Kong, China and democracy| @guardianletters"},{"date": "2014-09-09T19:43:32Z", "country": "china", "content": "Your editorial on the selection of the chief executive of the Hong Kong special administrative region by universal suffrage (A foolish decision, 3 September) is a groundless attack on China\u2019s Hong Kong policy and lacks basic historical knowledge.According to the decision adopted by the standing committee of China\u2019s National People\u2019s Congress, starting from 2017, the selection of the Hong Kong chief executive may be implemented by universal suffrage. It means that if implemented smoothly, only 20 years after Hong Kong\u2019s return to the motherland, 5 million eligible voters of its 7 million population will be able to directly elect the chief executive through one-person-one-vote for the first time in history. It shows the rapid progress in Hong Kong\u2019s democratic development and the broad base of consensus it enjoys. Such a major step forward could only be dreamed of during the 150 years of British rule.The Sino-British joint declaration of 1984 made no mention of universal suffrage. It is the Chinese government who first proposed selection of the Hong Kong chief executive by universal suffrage, which was then clearly written into the 1990 Hong Kong Basic Law. It is thus incomprehensible how the editorial can argue \u201creasonably\u201d that \u201cChina has broken the promises it made\u201d.In conclusion, I would like to point out that the Chinese government is firmly dedicated to the development of various causes in Hong Kong, democratic politics included. At the same time, Hong Kong\u2019s political structure needs to improve by gradual and steady progress. The pressing task now is to make that first step forward and reasonably conclude the political debate that has hung over Hong Kong society for 20 years. Only thus can Hong Kong concentrate on its development and keep its competitive edge.Miao DeyuChinese embassy, London", "tags": ["Hong Kong", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "China"], "title": "Hong Kong, China and democracy| @guardianletters"},{"date": "2014-08-02T10:33:24Z", "country": "china", "content": "An explosion at a factory in China has killed at least 69 people, according to Chinese state media.Another 150 people were injured in the blast on Saturday morning in Kunshan, a city in the eastern province of Jiangsu near Shanghai.Workers in the factory were producing parts for cars for US companies including General Motors, state media said.\"We heard the explosion and we were all shocked,\" a security guard from a nearby factory told Agence France-Presse. He said the blast happened as workers were changing shifts, resulting in higher casualties.Photographs posted online showed a charred body being wheeled on a stretcher, and people with burned clothing sitting on the ground outside a factory complex that was billowing black smoke.Forty people died at the scene, and more than 20 others died in hospital, Chinese broadcasters said. Medical staff were sent from Shanghai to treat burns victims, according to the People's Daily.Preliminary investigations suggest that the blast was caused by dust produced as workers polished metal meeting with high temperatures or an open flame, China's ministry of public security said.\"The scene is a mess, it's unrecognisable,\" a witness at the scene wrote on Sina Weibo, a Chinese equivalent of Twitter.Chinese state television identified the factory as Zhongrong Plating. Company officials could not be reached for a comment. Its website says it employs 450 workers and counts General Motors and other US companies as clients. No one at General Motors in China was immediately available for comment.Jiangsu province is on China's coast, where many local and foreign companies have facilities producing goods for export. Kunshan is a centre for Taiwanese investment, with factories supplying China's vast automotive manufacturing industry.Industrial accidents are common in China, where safety standards are often lax. A fire at a poultry plant in the north-east of the country killed 119 people last year. Reports at the time said managers had locked doors inside the factory to prevent workers from going to the toilet, leading to the high death toll.Saturday's blast comes two days after at least 26 people were killed in the southern Taiwanese city of Kaohsiung in a suspected gas pipeline explosion. A pipeline explosion in the Chinese coastal city of Qingdao last year killed 62 people and injured 136.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China factory explosion kills scores"},{"date": "2014-09-09T19:43:32Z", "country": "china", "content": "Your editorial on the selection of the chief executive of the Hong Kong special administrative region by universal suffrage (A foolish decision, 3 September) is a groundless attack on China\u2019s Hong Kong policy and lacks basic historical knowledge.According to the decision adopted by the standing committee of China\u2019s National People\u2019s Congress, starting from 2017, the selection of the Hong Kong chief executive may be implemented by universal suffrage. It means that if implemented smoothly, only 20 years after Hong Kong\u2019s return to the motherland, 5 million eligible voters of its 7 million population will be able to directly elect the chief executive through one-person-one-vote for the first time in history. It shows the rapid progress in Hong Kong\u2019s democratic development and the broad base of consensus it enjoys. Such a major step forward could only be dreamed of during the 150 years of British rule.The Sino-British joint declaration of 1984 made no mention of universal suffrage. It is the Chinese government who first proposed selection of the Hong Kong chief executive by universal suffrage, which was then clearly written into the 1990 Hong Kong Basic Law. It is thus incomprehensible how the editorial can argue \u201creasonably\u201d that \u201cChina has broken the promises it made\u201d.In conclusion, I would like to point out that the Chinese government is firmly dedicated to the development of various causes in Hong Kong, democratic politics included. At the same time, Hong Kong\u2019s political structure needs to improve by gradual and steady progress. The pressing task now is to make that first step forward and reasonably conclude the political debate that has hung over Hong Kong society for 20 years. Only thus can Hong Kong concentrate on its development and keep its competitive edge.Miao DeyuChinese embassy, London", "tags": ["Hong Kong", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "China"], "title": "Hong Kong, China and democracy| @guardianletters"},{"date": "2014-08-02T10:33:24Z", "country": "china", "content": "An explosion at a factory in China has killed at least 69 people, according to Chinese state media.Another 150 people were injured in the blast on Saturday morning in Kunshan, a city in the eastern province of Jiangsu near Shanghai.Workers in the factory were producing parts for cars for US companies including General Motors, state media said.\"We heard the explosion and we were all shocked,\" a security guard from a nearby factory told Agence France-Presse. He said the blast happened as workers were changing shifts, resulting in higher casualties.Photographs posted online showed a charred body being wheeled on a stretcher, and people with burned clothing sitting on the ground outside a factory complex that was billowing black smoke.Forty people died at the scene, and more than 20 others died in hospital, Chinese broadcasters said. Medical staff were sent from Shanghai to treat burns victims, according to the People's Daily.Preliminary investigations suggest that the blast was caused by dust produced as workers polished metal meeting with high temperatures or an open flame, China's ministry of public security said.\"The scene is a mess, it's unrecognisable,\" a witness at the scene wrote on Sina Weibo, a Chinese equivalent of Twitter.Chinese state television identified the factory as Zhongrong Plating. Company officials could not be reached for a comment. Its website says it employs 450 workers and counts General Motors and other US companies as clients. No one at General Motors in China was immediately available for comment.Jiangsu province is on China's coast, where many local and foreign companies have facilities producing goods for export. Kunshan is a centre for Taiwanese investment, with factories supplying China's vast automotive manufacturing industry.Industrial accidents are common in China, where safety standards are often lax. A fire at a poultry plant in the north-east of the country killed 119 people last year. Reports at the time said managers had locked doors inside the factory to prevent workers from going to the toilet, leading to the high death toll.Saturday's blast comes two days after at least 26 people were killed in the southern Taiwanese city of Kaohsiung in a suspected gas pipeline explosion. A pipeline explosion in the Chinese coastal city of Qingdao last year killed 62 people and injured 136.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China factory explosion kills scores"},{"date": "2014-09-17T05:42:18Z", "country": "china", "content": "Chinese authorities began trying the Uighur academic Ilham Tohti on charges of \u201cseparatism\u201d on Wednesday morning, in what human rights groups have called a \u201ctravesty of justice\u201d that underscores the government\u2019s unwillingness to field even moderate criticisms of its ethnic policies. Tohti, 44, is being tried at the Urumqi intermediate court in Urumqi, capital of the Xinjiang Uighur autonomous region, more than 1,800 miles (3,000km) west of his home in Beijing. He will almost certainly be convicted; possible sentences range from 10 years to life in prison. He firmly denies the charge. According to Tohti\u2019s lawyers Liu Xiaoming and Li Fangping, the trial will last two days, with sentencing at a later date.Tohti, a former economics professor at the prestigious Minzu University of China in Beijing, was arrested in January and charged with separatism in July. His lawyers Liu Xiaoming and Li Fangping claim that he was shackled in prison, and denied access to food and warm clothes.\u201cHe said he is still in leg irons. Urumqi is already cold but he is still wearing short sleeves and he has fallen ill. He has not been given the clothes his family sent to him,\u201d Li told Reuters after meeting with Tohti on Monday.Photos posted online showed the courthouse surrounded by police and adjacent roads sealed off with tape and construction barriers. Nine western diplomats, including from Britain, Canada, Germany and the US, were barred from the courtroom. The US government and European Union have expressed \u201cconcern\u201d about the charges and called for Tohti\u2019s release. Xinjiang, a massive north-western region bordering several central Asian states, has seen an explosion of ethnic violence in recent months \u2014 mainly mass stabbings, bombings and vehicular attacks perpetrated by Uighurs, a predominantly Muslim group of eight million, against majority Han Chinese.Communist authorities have blamed the violence on Islamic fundamentalists and independence-seeking terrorist groups, and have responded by inundating the region with a military-style show of force. Uighur activists call the attacks a reflection of homegrown grievances, including severe cultural and religious restrictions. They say that the crackdown has only exacerbated the region\u2019s ethnic divide. \u201cAmong outspoken Uighurs, Tohti is one of the few that are not calling for independence \u2014 he\u2019s not connected to independence organisations,\u201d said Eliot Sperling, a professor at Indiana University who knew Tohti. \u201cAt the same time he has been scrupulously forthright about what\u2019s going on in Xinjiang \u2014 repression on the basis of nationality, and repression on the basis of religion, and calling for investigations into the truth behind government actions there.\u201dPrison guards have kept Tohti in leg irons since 9 August after a \u201cquarrel\u201d with his cell mates, his lawyers have said. Authorities denied him food for 10 days in March after a band of knife-wielding Uighurs executed a brutal terror attack at a southern Chinese train station. His wife, Guzailai Nu\u2019er, and two young sons have not been allowed to visit him in prison. Tohti\u2019s lawyers say the evidence against him includes dozens of articles and interviews with foreign media that touch on separatism, and 52 DVDs, some of which contain his university lectures. Seven people with connections to the academic, including some of his former students, have also been detained.In a statement Human Rights Watch called the trial a \u201ctravesty of justice\u201d and a \u201cdisturbing example of politicised show trials and intolerance for peaceful criticism\u201d. Tohti moved to Beijing in 1985 and began teaching at the university in the early 90s. He is perhaps best known in Uighur communities as the host of Uighur Online, a bilingual Uighur-Chinese online forum that encouraged candid debate about the government\u2019s regional policies. Authorities blocked the site in mid-2008. Tohti\u2019s name is currently censored on social media websites. Authorities have accused Tohti of playing a role in inciting numerous violent incidents, including a \u201cterror attack\u201d near the desert city Kashgar last spring which killed 21 people, and an attack on a police station in Lukqun, a nearby town of 30,000 people, that left dozens of people dead last June. \u201cI would think in general, one of the tragedies of this whole situation is that if the Chinese government was more reasonable Ilham Tohti could be one of their greatest allies \u2014 this is a peaceful, moderate, thoughtful scholar who has spent his whole life trying to find solutions to China\u2019s ethnic tensions,\u201d said Katy Glenn Bass, the deputy director of free expression programmes at the New York-based PEN American Centre.\u201cWhat they\u2019re doing with this trial is showing that no criticism, no matter how peaceful or moderate, will be tolerated.\u201dPEN America announced Tohti as the winner of its most prestigious award, the PEN/Barbara Goldsmith Freedom to Write Award, on 1 April, and his 20 year-old daughter Jewher Ilham, a student at Indiana University, accepted it for him in absentia the following month. China\u2019s foreign ministry condemned the award for interfering with the country\u2019s \u201cjudicial sovereignty and independence\u201d.\u201cI am heartbroken to see my father treated this way but I am also very proud of him,\u201d Jewher said, according to a statement by PEN America.\u201cMy father wanted Uighurs and Han Chinese to work together for peace and equality, and never advocated violence or separatism. While I know it is unlikely, I am hopeful that my country \u2013 his country \u2013 will recognise the value of my father\u2019s work and spare him from years in prison.\u201dNu\u2019er was allowed to attend the trial along with three other family members, but said that state security had her under constant surveillance. \u201cThey follow me everywhere, they are outside my brother\u2019s house as I speak,\u201d she told Agence France-Presse. \u201cI\u2019m worried about [Tohti\u2019s] health, he has heart and stomach troubles, and he hasn\u2019t been allowed to visit a hospital.\u201d", "tags": ["Xinjiang", "China", "Asia Pacific", "Human rights", "World news", "Law"], "title": "China begins trial of Ilham Tohti"},{"date": "2014-09-09T19:43:32Z", "country": "china", "content": "Your editorial on the selection of the chief executive of the Hong Kong special administrative region by universal suffrage (A foolish decision, 3 September) is a groundless attack on China\u2019s Hong Kong policy and lacks basic historical knowledge.According to the decision adopted by the standing committee of China\u2019s National People\u2019s Congress, starting from 2017, the selection of the Hong Kong chief executive may be implemented by universal suffrage. It means that if implemented smoothly, only 20 years after Hong Kong\u2019s return to the motherland, 5 million eligible voters of its 7 million population will be able to directly elect the chief executive through one-person-one-vote for the first time in history. It shows the rapid progress in Hong Kong\u2019s democratic development and the broad base of consensus it enjoys. Such a major step forward could only be dreamed of during the 150 years of British rule.The Sino-British joint declaration of 1984 made no mention of universal suffrage. It is the Chinese government who first proposed selection of the Hong Kong chief executive by universal suffrage, which was then clearly written into the 1990 Hong Kong Basic Law. It is thus incomprehensible how the editorial can argue \u201creasonably\u201d that \u201cChina has broken the promises it made\u201d.In conclusion, I would like to point out that the Chinese government is firmly dedicated to the development of various causes in Hong Kong, democratic politics included. At the same time, Hong Kong\u2019s political structure needs to improve by gradual and steady progress. The pressing task now is to make that first step forward and reasonably conclude the political debate that has hung over Hong Kong society for 20 years. Only thus can Hong Kong concentrate on its development and keep its competitive edge.Miao DeyuChinese embassy, London", "tags": ["Hong Kong", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "China"], "title": "Hong Kong, China and democracy| @guardianletters"},{"date": "2014-08-02T10:33:24Z", "country": "china", "content": "An explosion at a factory in China has killed at least 69 people, according to Chinese state media.Another 150 people were injured in the blast on Saturday morning in Kunshan, a city in the eastern province of Jiangsu near Shanghai.Workers in the factory were producing parts for cars for US companies including General Motors, state media said.\"We heard the explosion and we were all shocked,\" a security guard from a nearby factory told Agence France-Presse. He said the blast happened as workers were changing shifts, resulting in higher casualties.Photographs posted online showed a charred body being wheeled on a stretcher, and people with burned clothing sitting on the ground outside a factory complex that was billowing black smoke.Forty people died at the scene, and more than 20 others died in hospital, Chinese broadcasters said. Medical staff were sent from Shanghai to treat burns victims, according to the People's Daily.Preliminary investigations suggest that the blast was caused by dust produced as workers polished metal meeting with high temperatures or an open flame, China's ministry of public security said.\"The scene is a mess, it's unrecognisable,\" a witness at the scene wrote on Sina Weibo, a Chinese equivalent of Twitter.Chinese state television identified the factory as Zhongrong Plating. Company officials could not be reached for a comment. Its website says it employs 450 workers and counts General Motors and other US companies as clients. No one at General Motors in China was immediately available for comment.Jiangsu province is on China's coast, where many local and foreign companies have facilities producing goods for export. Kunshan is a centre for Taiwanese investment, with factories supplying China's vast automotive manufacturing industry.Industrial accidents are common in China, where safety standards are often lax. A fire at a poultry plant in the north-east of the country killed 119 people last year. Reports at the time said managers had locked doors inside the factory to prevent workers from going to the toilet, leading to the high death toll.Saturday's blast comes two days after at least 26 people were killed in the southern Taiwanese city of Kaohsiung in a suspected gas pipeline explosion. A pipeline explosion in the Chinese coastal city of Qingdao last year killed 62 people and injured 136.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China factory explosion kills scores"},{"date": "2014-09-17T05:42:18Z", "country": "china", "content": "Chinese authorities began trying the Uighur academic Ilham Tohti on charges of \u201cseparatism\u201d on Wednesday morning, in what human rights groups have called a \u201ctravesty of justice\u201d that underscores the government\u2019s unwillingness to field even moderate criticisms of its ethnic policies. Tohti, 44, is being tried at the Urumqi intermediate court in Urumqi, capital of the Xinjiang Uighur autonomous region, more than 1,800 miles (3,000km) west of his home in Beijing. He will almost certainly be convicted; possible sentences range from 10 years to life in prison. He firmly denies the charge. According to Tohti\u2019s lawyers Liu Xiaoming and Li Fangping, the trial will last two days, with sentencing at a later date.Tohti, a former economics professor at the prestigious Minzu University of China in Beijing, was arrested in January and charged with separatism in July. His lawyers Liu Xiaoming and Li Fangping claim that he was shackled in prison, and denied access to food and warm clothes.\u201cHe said he is still in leg irons. Urumqi is already cold but he is still wearing short sleeves and he has fallen ill. He has not been given the clothes his family sent to him,\u201d Li told Reuters after meeting with Tohti on Monday.Photos posted online showed the courthouse surrounded by police and adjacent roads sealed off with tape and construction barriers. Nine western diplomats, including from Britain, Canada, Germany and the US, were barred from the courtroom. The US government and European Union have expressed \u201cconcern\u201d about the charges and called for Tohti\u2019s release. Xinjiang, a massive north-western region bordering several central Asian states, has seen an explosion of ethnic violence in recent months \u2014 mainly mass stabbings, bombings and vehicular attacks perpetrated by Uighurs, a predominantly Muslim group of eight million, against majority Han Chinese.Communist authorities have blamed the violence on Islamic fundamentalists and independence-seeking terrorist groups, and have responded by inundating the region with a military-style show of force. Uighur activists call the attacks a reflection of homegrown grievances, including severe cultural and religious restrictions. They say that the crackdown has only exacerbated the region\u2019s ethnic divide. \u201cAmong outspoken Uighurs, Tohti is one of the few that are not calling for independence \u2014 he\u2019s not connected to independence organisations,\u201d said Eliot Sperling, a professor at Indiana University who knew Tohti. \u201cAt the same time he has been scrupulously forthright about what\u2019s going on in Xinjiang \u2014 repression on the basis of nationality, and repression on the basis of religion, and calling for investigations into the truth behind government actions there.\u201dPrison guards have kept Tohti in leg irons since 9 August after a \u201cquarrel\u201d with his cell mates, his lawyers have said. Authorities denied him food for 10 days in March after a band of knife-wielding Uighurs executed a brutal terror attack at a southern Chinese train station. His wife, Guzailai Nu\u2019er, and two young sons have not been allowed to visit him in prison. Tohti\u2019s lawyers say the evidence against him includes dozens of articles and interviews with foreign media that touch on separatism, and 52 DVDs, some of which contain his university lectures. Seven people with connections to the academic, including some of his former students, have also been detained.In a statement Human Rights Watch called the trial a \u201ctravesty of justice\u201d and a \u201cdisturbing example of politicised show trials and intolerance for peaceful criticism\u201d. Tohti moved to Beijing in 1985 and began teaching at the university in the early 90s. He is perhaps best known in Uighur communities as the host of Uighur Online, a bilingual Uighur-Chinese online forum that encouraged candid debate about the government\u2019s regional policies. Authorities blocked the site in mid-2008. Tohti\u2019s name is currently censored on social media websites. Authorities have accused Tohti of playing a role in inciting numerous violent incidents, including a \u201cterror attack\u201d near the desert city Kashgar last spring which killed 21 people, and an attack on a police station in Lukqun, a nearby town of 30,000 people, that left dozens of people dead last June. \u201cI would think in general, one of the tragedies of this whole situation is that if the Chinese government was more reasonable Ilham Tohti could be one of their greatest allies \u2014 this is a peaceful, moderate, thoughtful scholar who has spent his whole life trying to find solutions to China\u2019s ethnic tensions,\u201d said Katy Glenn Bass, the deputy director of free expression programmes at the New York-based PEN American Centre.\u201cWhat they\u2019re doing with this trial is showing that no criticism, no matter how peaceful or moderate, will be tolerated.\u201dPEN America announced Tohti as the winner of its most prestigious award, the PEN/Barbara Goldsmith Freedom to Write Award, on 1 April, and his 20 year-old daughter Jewher Ilham, a student at Indiana University, accepted it for him in absentia the following month. China\u2019s foreign ministry condemned the award for interfering with the country\u2019s \u201cjudicial sovereignty and independence\u201d.\u201cI am heartbroken to see my father treated this way but I am also very proud of him,\u201d Jewher said, according to a statement by PEN America.\u201cMy father wanted Uighurs and Han Chinese to work together for peace and equality, and never advocated violence or separatism. While I know it is unlikely, I am hopeful that my country \u2013 his country \u2013 will recognise the value of my father\u2019s work and spare him from years in prison.\u201dNu\u2019er was allowed to attend the trial along with three other family members, but said that state security had her under constant surveillance. \u201cThey follow me everywhere, they are outside my brother\u2019s house as I speak,\u201d she told Agence France-Presse. \u201cI\u2019m worried about [Tohti\u2019s] health, he has heart and stomach troubles, and he hasn\u2019t been allowed to visit a hospital.\u201d", "tags": ["Xinjiang", "China", "Asia Pacific", "Human rights", "World news", "Law"], "title": "China begins trial of Ilham Tohti"},{"date": "2014-07-28T14:48:14Z", "country": "china", "content": "China is becoming more unequal as it gets richer, with about a third of the country's wealth now concentrated in the hands of 1% of its citizens, according to new research.A report by the Peking University Institute of Social Science Survey also found that the poorest quarter of Chinese citizens owned only 1% of the country's wealth.The report, which was covered extensively by China's state media, concludes that while the country is getting richer as a whole \u2013 the average net worth of a Chinese household rose 17% between 2010 and 2012 to $71,000 (\u00a342,000) \u2013 inequality is a serious and growing problem.It says the country's Gini coefficient, a widely used indicator of economic inequality, has grown sharply over the past two decades.A Gini coefficient of zero represents absolute equality, while one represents absolute inequality. About 20 years ago, China's Gini coefficient for family net wealth was 0.45, according to the the People's Daily website, a Communist party mouthpiece, but by 2012 it had risen to 0.73.According to some analysts, societies that have a Gini coefficient of more than 0.40 are at increased risk of widespread social unrest. Data from the OECD gives the US the highest Gini coefficient in the G7, after taxes and transfers, at 0.39, followed by the UK at 0.34 and Italy at 0.32.In the US, the richest 1% of the population controls about 40% of the country's wealth.The Chinese study, which took its data from a large-scale survey conducted by Peking University researchers in 2012, said nearly three-quarters of Chinese household wealth comes from property investments.\"This data is fresh. We know about national wealth, how much everybody's wealth has grown, but we still don't have many numbers on individual wealth,\" said Li Wei, a sociologist at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. \"I'm very glad that academic institutions are putting so much work into research, and presenting this data about how our economy is really doing.\"In the future, government departments should take responsibility for collecting this information and presenting it quickly and transparently.\"Li said China's biggest wealth discrepancies used to be between rural and urban areas, but a major nationwide urbanisation campaign had narrowed the gap. The greatest economic divisions were now between the affluent east coast and the relatively impoverished interior, and among different areas of individual cities and provinces, he said.According to a Credit Suisse's 2013 global wealth report, about 1% of the world's population holds 46% of its total assets. The richest 10% of earners own 86% of all wealth, and the bottom half owns less than 1%.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China gets richer but more unequal"},{"date": "2014-09-09T19:43:32Z", "country": "china", "content": "Your editorial on the selection of the chief executive of the Hong Kong special administrative region by universal suffrage (A foolish decision, 3 September) is a groundless attack on China\u2019s Hong Kong policy and lacks basic historical knowledge.According to the decision adopted by the standing committee of China\u2019s National People\u2019s Congress, starting from 2017, the selection of the Hong Kong chief executive may be implemented by universal suffrage. It means that if implemented smoothly, only 20 years after Hong Kong\u2019s return to the motherland, 5 million eligible voters of its 7 million population will be able to directly elect the chief executive through one-person-one-vote for the first time in history. It shows the rapid progress in Hong Kong\u2019s democratic development and the broad base of consensus it enjoys. Such a major step forward could only be dreamed of during the 150 years of British rule.The Sino-British joint declaration of 1984 made no mention of universal suffrage. It is the Chinese government who first proposed selection of the Hong Kong chief executive by universal suffrage, which was then clearly written into the 1990 Hong Kong Basic Law. It is thus incomprehensible how the editorial can argue \u201creasonably\u201d that \u201cChina has broken the promises it made\u201d.In conclusion, I would like to point out that the Chinese government is firmly dedicated to the development of various causes in Hong Kong, democratic politics included. At the same time, Hong Kong\u2019s political structure needs to improve by gradual and steady progress. The pressing task now is to make that first step forward and reasonably conclude the political debate that has hung over Hong Kong society for 20 years. Only thus can Hong Kong concentrate on its development and keep its competitive edge.Miao DeyuChinese embassy, London", "tags": ["Hong Kong", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "China"], "title": "Hong Kong, China and democracy| @guardianletters"},{"date": "2014-08-02T10:33:24Z", "country": "china", "content": "An explosion at a factory in China has killed at least 69 people, according to Chinese state media.Another 150 people were injured in the blast on Saturday morning in Kunshan, a city in the eastern province of Jiangsu near Shanghai.Workers in the factory were producing parts for cars for US companies including General Motors, state media said.\"We heard the explosion and we were all shocked,\" a security guard from a nearby factory told Agence France-Presse. He said the blast happened as workers were changing shifts, resulting in higher casualties.Photographs posted online showed a charred body being wheeled on a stretcher, and people with burned clothing sitting on the ground outside a factory complex that was billowing black smoke.Forty people died at the scene, and more than 20 others died in hospital, Chinese broadcasters said. Medical staff were sent from Shanghai to treat burns victims, according to the People's Daily.Preliminary investigations suggest that the blast was caused by dust produced as workers polished metal meeting with high temperatures or an open flame, China's ministry of public security said.\"The scene is a mess, it's unrecognisable,\" a witness at the scene wrote on Sina Weibo, a Chinese equivalent of Twitter.Chinese state television identified the factory as Zhongrong Plating. Company officials could not be reached for a comment. Its website says it employs 450 workers and counts General Motors and other US companies as clients. No one at General Motors in China was immediately available for comment.Jiangsu province is on China's coast, where many local and foreign companies have facilities producing goods for export. Kunshan is a centre for Taiwanese investment, with factories supplying China's vast automotive manufacturing industry.Industrial accidents are common in China, where safety standards are often lax. A fire at a poultry plant in the north-east of the country killed 119 people last year. Reports at the time said managers had locked doors inside the factory to prevent workers from going to the toilet, leading to the high death toll.Saturday's blast comes two days after at least 26 people were killed in the southern Taiwanese city of Kaohsiung in a suspected gas pipeline explosion. A pipeline explosion in the Chinese coastal city of Qingdao last year killed 62 people and injured 136.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China factory explosion kills scores"},{"date": "2014-09-17T05:42:18Z", "country": "china", "content": "Chinese authorities began trying the Uighur academic Ilham Tohti on charges of \u201cseparatism\u201d on Wednesday morning, in what human rights groups have called a \u201ctravesty of justice\u201d that underscores the government\u2019s unwillingness to field even moderate criticisms of its ethnic policies. Tohti, 44, is being tried at the Urumqi intermediate court in Urumqi, capital of the Xinjiang Uighur autonomous region, more than 1,800 miles (3,000km) west of his home in Beijing. He will almost certainly be convicted; possible sentences range from 10 years to life in prison. He firmly denies the charge. According to Tohti\u2019s lawyers Liu Xiaoming and Li Fangping, the trial will last two days, with sentencing at a later date.Tohti, a former economics professor at the prestigious Minzu University of China in Beijing, was arrested in January and charged with separatism in July. His lawyers Liu Xiaoming and Li Fangping claim that he was shackled in prison, and denied access to food and warm clothes.\u201cHe said he is still in leg irons. Urumqi is already cold but he is still wearing short sleeves and he has fallen ill. He has not been given the clothes his family sent to him,\u201d Li told Reuters after meeting with Tohti on Monday.Photos posted online showed the courthouse surrounded by police and adjacent roads sealed off with tape and construction barriers. Nine western diplomats, including from Britain, Canada, Germany and the US, were barred from the courtroom. The US government and European Union have expressed \u201cconcern\u201d about the charges and called for Tohti\u2019s release. Xinjiang, a massive north-western region bordering several central Asian states, has seen an explosion of ethnic violence in recent months \u2014 mainly mass stabbings, bombings and vehicular attacks perpetrated by Uighurs, a predominantly Muslim group of eight million, against majority Han Chinese.Communist authorities have blamed the violence on Islamic fundamentalists and independence-seeking terrorist groups, and have responded by inundating the region with a military-style show of force. Uighur activists call the attacks a reflection of homegrown grievances, including severe cultural and religious restrictions. They say that the crackdown has only exacerbated the region\u2019s ethnic divide. \u201cAmong outspoken Uighurs, Tohti is one of the few that are not calling for independence \u2014 he\u2019s not connected to independence organisations,\u201d said Eliot Sperling, a professor at Indiana University who knew Tohti. \u201cAt the same time he has been scrupulously forthright about what\u2019s going on in Xinjiang \u2014 repression on the basis of nationality, and repression on the basis of religion, and calling for investigations into the truth behind government actions there.\u201dPrison guards have kept Tohti in leg irons since 9 August after a \u201cquarrel\u201d with his cell mates, his lawyers have said. Authorities denied him food for 10 days in March after a band of knife-wielding Uighurs executed a brutal terror attack at a southern Chinese train station. His wife, Guzailai Nu\u2019er, and two young sons have not been allowed to visit him in prison. Tohti\u2019s lawyers say the evidence against him includes dozens of articles and interviews with foreign media that touch on separatism, and 52 DVDs, some of which contain his university lectures. Seven people with connections to the academic, including some of his former students, have also been detained.In a statement Human Rights Watch called the trial a \u201ctravesty of justice\u201d and a \u201cdisturbing example of politicised show trials and intolerance for peaceful criticism\u201d. Tohti moved to Beijing in 1985 and began teaching at the university in the early 90s. He is perhaps best known in Uighur communities as the host of Uighur Online, a bilingual Uighur-Chinese online forum that encouraged candid debate about the government\u2019s regional policies. Authorities blocked the site in mid-2008. Tohti\u2019s name is currently censored on social media websites. Authorities have accused Tohti of playing a role in inciting numerous violent incidents, including a \u201cterror attack\u201d near the desert city Kashgar last spring which killed 21 people, and an attack on a police station in Lukqun, a nearby town of 30,000 people, that left dozens of people dead last June. \u201cI would think in general, one of the tragedies of this whole situation is that if the Chinese government was more reasonable Ilham Tohti could be one of their greatest allies \u2014 this is a peaceful, moderate, thoughtful scholar who has spent his whole life trying to find solutions to China\u2019s ethnic tensions,\u201d said Katy Glenn Bass, the deputy director of free expression programmes at the New York-based PEN American Centre.\u201cWhat they\u2019re doing with this trial is showing that no criticism, no matter how peaceful or moderate, will be tolerated.\u201dPEN America announced Tohti as the winner of its most prestigious award, the PEN/Barbara Goldsmith Freedom to Write Award, on 1 April, and his 20 year-old daughter Jewher Ilham, a student at Indiana University, accepted it for him in absentia the following month. China\u2019s foreign ministry condemned the award for interfering with the country\u2019s \u201cjudicial sovereignty and independence\u201d.\u201cI am heartbroken to see my father treated this way but I am also very proud of him,\u201d Jewher said, according to a statement by PEN America.\u201cMy father wanted Uighurs and Han Chinese to work together for peace and equality, and never advocated violence or separatism. While I know it is unlikely, I am hopeful that my country \u2013 his country \u2013 will recognise the value of my father\u2019s work and spare him from years in prison.\u201dNu\u2019er was allowed to attend the trial along with three other family members, but said that state security had her under constant surveillance. \u201cThey follow me everywhere, they are outside my brother\u2019s house as I speak,\u201d she told Agence France-Presse. \u201cI\u2019m worried about [Tohti\u2019s] health, he has heart and stomach troubles, and he hasn\u2019t been allowed to visit a hospital.\u201d", "tags": ["Xinjiang", "China", "Asia Pacific", "Human rights", "World news", "Law"], "title": "China begins trial of Ilham Tohti"},{"date": "2014-07-28T14:48:14Z", "country": "china", "content": "China is becoming more unequal as it gets richer, with about a third of the country's wealth now concentrated in the hands of 1% of its citizens, according to new research.A report by the Peking University Institute of Social Science Survey also found that the poorest quarter of Chinese citizens owned only 1% of the country's wealth.The report, which was covered extensively by China's state media, concludes that while the country is getting richer as a whole \u2013 the average net worth of a Chinese household rose 17% between 2010 and 2012 to $71,000 (\u00a342,000) \u2013 inequality is a serious and growing problem.It says the country's Gini coefficient, a widely used indicator of economic inequality, has grown sharply over the past two decades.A Gini coefficient of zero represents absolute equality, while one represents absolute inequality. About 20 years ago, China's Gini coefficient for family net wealth was 0.45, according to the the People's Daily website, a Communist party mouthpiece, but by 2012 it had risen to 0.73.According to some analysts, societies that have a Gini coefficient of more than 0.40 are at increased risk of widespread social unrest. Data from the OECD gives the US the highest Gini coefficient in the G7, after taxes and transfers, at 0.39, followed by the UK at 0.34 and Italy at 0.32.In the US, the richest 1% of the population controls about 40% of the country's wealth.The Chinese study, which took its data from a large-scale survey conducted by Peking University researchers in 2012, said nearly three-quarters of Chinese household wealth comes from property investments.\"This data is fresh. We know about national wealth, how much everybody's wealth has grown, but we still don't have many numbers on individual wealth,\" said Li Wei, a sociologist at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. \"I'm very glad that academic institutions are putting so much work into research, and presenting this data about how our economy is really doing.\"In the future, government departments should take responsibility for collecting this information and presenting it quickly and transparently.\"Li said China's biggest wealth discrepancies used to be between rural and urban areas, but a major nationwide urbanisation campaign had narrowed the gap. The greatest economic divisions were now between the affluent east coast and the relatively impoverished interior, and among different areas of individual cities and provinces, he said.According to a Credit Suisse's 2013 global wealth report, about 1% of the world's population holds 46% of its total assets. The richest 10% of earners own 86% of all wealth, and the bottom half owns less than 1%.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China gets richer but more unequal"},{"date": "2014-07-23T19:24:10Z", "country": "china", "content": "China is a honeypot for drug and cosmetic firms. Chinese consumers, hurt by a succession of contamination scandals, have little trust in domestic operators. For GlaxoSmithKline it should be a major profit centre but after its own China scandal, profits are in free-fall.On Wednesday shareholders digested the latest decline and the pharmaceutical company was the FTSE 100's biggest faller.The worries are two-fold. Can the company find a way back into one of the world's fastest developing healthcare markets? And what will be the implications of an investigation by the Serious Fraud Office into the drug maker's sales practices around the world?Sir Andrew Witty, the chief executive, gave little away about the Chinese investigation into claims that GSK's sales reps paid doctors and health officials up to 3bn yuan (\u00a3284m) to push the firm's drugs. With the situation as it is, it was probably difficult for him to say much. What he could say and did say was that the company had changed the way it conducts its business, including \"how we reward our sales representatives, and stopping payments to doctors to speak on our behalf or to attend medical congresses\".This statement was designed to allay fears about the SFO inquiry. But shareholders will be wary.A company as large as GSK and with operations in so many countries where corruption is endemic will find it difficult to stay clean, no matter how hard it tries.As Witty said: \"In a company of our size operating in almost every country in the world there's always a small potential for some people to step outside procedure.\" According to the last Transparency International corruption perceptions index, which ranks countries according how corrupt people believe public organisations to be, many of GSK's markets are far more corrupt than China.The People's Republic ranks at 80 out of 175 countries. The Philippines stands at 94, Mexico, home to 121 million people, is 106, while Russia and Pakistan are joint 127th.GSK's reputation for producing the highest quality medicines puts it in a leading position across the developing world. And its profits on Wednesday from markets outside China showed it is doing well selling drugs to counter everything from heart disease to asthma.But its travails underline the perils to any British company of entering high-growth export markets, which reside mostly in the developing world. When George Osborne set a target of \u00a31tn in exports for UK companies by 2020, it should have carried a health warning.", "tags": ["GlaxoSmithKline", "Pharmaceuticals industry", "Business", "China", "Serious Fraud Office", "Asia Pacific", "UK news", "World news"], "title": "GlaxoSmithKline's China crisis has spooked shareholders"},{"date": "2014-11-20T18:18:56Z", "country": "china", "content": "Aldi is planning to expand into China, taking the German discounter into its fourth continent.The family owners of the firm are reported to have agreed to the move but no timeframe has been set. Analysts at the Planet Retail consultancy say Aldi is not likely to start operations in east Asia before 2018.The expansion plan was revealed in minutes of meetings between the two arms of the business \u2013 Aldi Nord and Aldi S\u00fcd, which operates in the UK. According to the German business journal, Manager Magazin, Aldi S\u00fcd will take on the China venture. The supermarket group, which is piling pressure on traditional grocers in the UK including Tesco, Morrisons and Sainsbury\u2019s, is scheduled to make its debut in California next year, where it is building a warehouse near Los Angeles.The Chinese market has proved tough for many major western retailers including Tesco and Carrefour. Yujun Qiu, Planet Retail\u2019s China analyst, said: \u201cThe big challenge will be how Chinese consumers will react to Aldi\u2019s private-label ranges. Many are sceptical when it comes to retailers\u2019 own brands and prefer the well-known manufacturer brands instead.\u201d ", "tags": ["Aldi", "China", "Supermarkets", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Retail industry", "Business"], "title": "Aldi plans China move"},{"date": "2014-11-20T18:18:56Z", "country": "china", "content": "Aldi is planning to expand into China, taking the German discounter into its fourth continent.The family owners of the firm are reported to have agreed to the move but no timeframe has been set. Analysts at the Planet Retail consultancy say Aldi is not likely to start operations in east Asia before 2018.The expansion plan was revealed in minutes of meetings between the two arms of the business \u2013 Aldi Nord and Aldi S\u00fcd, which operates in the UK. According to the German business journal, Manager Magazin, Aldi S\u00fcd will take on the China venture. The supermarket group, which is piling pressure on traditional grocers in the UK including Tesco, Morrisons and Sainsbury\u2019s, is scheduled to make its debut in California next year, where it is building a warehouse near Los Angeles.The Chinese market has proved tough for many major western retailers including Tesco and Carrefour. Yujun Qiu, Planet Retail\u2019s China analyst, said: \u201cThe big challenge will be how Chinese consumers will react to Aldi\u2019s private-label ranges. Many are sceptical when it comes to retailers\u2019 own brands and prefer the well-known manufacturer brands instead.\u201d ", "tags": ["Aldi", "China", "Supermarkets", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Retail industry", "Business"], "title": "Aldi plans China move"},{"date": "2014-12-22T15:58:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Chinese anti-corruption authorities have placed Ling Jihua, a top aide to the former president Hu Jintao, under investigation for graft, state media reported.Ling, 58, is under investigation for \u201csuspected serious disciplinary violation\u201d \u2013 almost always shorthand for corruption \u2013 the state newswire Xinhua said in a terse report, without giving further details.Ling, 58, is one of the highest-ranking Communist party officials to be caught up in President Xi Jinping\u2019s anti-corruption drive, the most intense and wide-ranging in China\u2019s recent history.Analysts say the campaign has allowed Xi to consolidate power by undermining rivals while concurrently improving the party\u2019s public image. This month, anti-corruption authorities formally arrested the former security tsar Zhou Yongkang, the country\u2019s highest-ranking official to be prosecuted in more than three decades.In the spring of 2012, months before Xi would replace Hu in a once-in-a-decade leadership transition, Ling\u2019s 23 year-old son Ling Gu crashed a Ferrari while joyriding in Beijing, killing himself and seriously injuring two women. Ling allegedly attempted to engineer a coverup, and fallout from the scandal changed the dynamics of the transition, allowing Xi to replace many of Hu\u2019s top allies with his own.From 2007 until 2012, Ling directed the party\u2019s general office, an administrative body with close ties to China\u2019s top leaders. Analysts believed that Hu was grooming him for advancement to the party\u2019s seven-person politburo standing committee, its highest decision-making body. After the crash, Ling was given a less-vaunted post as head of the United Front Work Department, a government agency that oversees ethnic minority relations, crushing his chances of promotion.Ling was born in a coalmining region of northern China\u2019s Shanxi province, and joined the party when he was 20. He quickly ascended the ranks as Hu\u2019s protege and a member of the Communist Youth League, a prominent party faction.\u201cThe question is not so much why Ling Jihua was in trouble, it\u2019s why it took so long for Ling Jihua to get into trouble,\u201d said Steve Tsang, an expert on Chinese politics at the University of Nottingham. \u201cAnd I think the most likely explanation was that Xi Jinping needed the support of the Communist Youth League and Hu Jintao [to bring down Zhou Yongkang], so basically left Ling Jihua alone. It was a very pragmatic move.\u201dAnti-graft authorities tightened the net around Ling in recent months, placing several of his former associates and two of his brothers under investigation. One of the brothers, Ling Zhengce, was a high-ranking official in Shanxi; the other, Ling Wancheng, was an elite businessman and amateur golfer.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China targets senior official in corruption crackdown"},{"date": "2014-11-20T18:18:56Z", "country": "china", "content": "Aldi is planning to expand into China, taking the German discounter into its fourth continent.The family owners of the firm are reported to have agreed to the move but no timeframe has been set. Analysts at the Planet Retail consultancy say Aldi is not likely to start operations in east Asia before 2018.The expansion plan was revealed in minutes of meetings between the two arms of the business \u2013 Aldi Nord and Aldi S\u00fcd, which operates in the UK. According to the German business journal, Manager Magazin, Aldi S\u00fcd will take on the China venture. The supermarket group, which is piling pressure on traditional grocers in the UK including Tesco, Morrisons and Sainsbury\u2019s, is scheduled to make its debut in California next year, where it is building a warehouse near Los Angeles.The Chinese market has proved tough for many major western retailers including Tesco and Carrefour. Yujun Qiu, Planet Retail\u2019s China analyst, said: \u201cThe big challenge will be how Chinese consumers will react to Aldi\u2019s private-label ranges. Many are sceptical when it comes to retailers\u2019 own brands and prefer the well-known manufacturer brands instead.\u201d ", "tags": ["Aldi", "China", "Supermarkets", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Retail industry", "Business"], "title": "Aldi plans China move"},{"date": "2014-12-22T15:58:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Chinese anti-corruption authorities have placed Ling Jihua, a top aide to the former president Hu Jintao, under investigation for graft, state media reported.Ling, 58, is under investigation for \u201csuspected serious disciplinary violation\u201d \u2013 almost always shorthand for corruption \u2013 the state newswire Xinhua said in a terse report, without giving further details.Ling, 58, is one of the highest-ranking Communist party officials to be caught up in President Xi Jinping\u2019s anti-corruption drive, the most intense and wide-ranging in China\u2019s recent history.Analysts say the campaign has allowed Xi to consolidate power by undermining rivals while concurrently improving the party\u2019s public image. This month, anti-corruption authorities formally arrested the former security tsar Zhou Yongkang, the country\u2019s highest-ranking official to be prosecuted in more than three decades.In the spring of 2012, months before Xi would replace Hu in a once-in-a-decade leadership transition, Ling\u2019s 23 year-old son Ling Gu crashed a Ferrari while joyriding in Beijing, killing himself and seriously injuring two women. Ling allegedly attempted to engineer a coverup, and fallout from the scandal changed the dynamics of the transition, allowing Xi to replace many of Hu\u2019s top allies with his own.From 2007 until 2012, Ling directed the party\u2019s general office, an administrative body with close ties to China\u2019s top leaders. Analysts believed that Hu was grooming him for advancement to the party\u2019s seven-person politburo standing committee, its highest decision-making body. After the crash, Ling was given a less-vaunted post as head of the United Front Work Department, a government agency that oversees ethnic minority relations, crushing his chances of promotion.Ling was born in a coalmining region of northern China\u2019s Shanxi province, and joined the party when he was 20. He quickly ascended the ranks as Hu\u2019s protege and a member of the Communist Youth League, a prominent party faction.\u201cThe question is not so much why Ling Jihua was in trouble, it\u2019s why it took so long for Ling Jihua to get into trouble,\u201d said Steve Tsang, an expert on Chinese politics at the University of Nottingham. \u201cAnd I think the most likely explanation was that Xi Jinping needed the support of the Communist Youth League and Hu Jintao [to bring down Zhou Yongkang], so basically left Ling Jihua alone. It was a very pragmatic move.\u201dAnti-graft authorities tightened the net around Ling in recent months, placing several of his former associates and two of his brothers under investigation. One of the brothers, Ling Zhengce, was a high-ranking official in Shanxi; the other, Ling Wancheng, was an elite businessman and amateur golfer.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China targets senior official in corruption crackdown"},{"date": "2014-12-22T13:25:10Z", "country": "china", "content": "China is considering tough curbs on tobacco advertising as the world\u2019s top consumer of cigarettes looks to kick the habit, state media reported on Monday.A parliamentary committee of the National People\u2019s Congress (NPC) is weighing up an amendment to China\u2019s advertising law that would protect minors from harmful adverts, including cigarette ads, the Xinhua news agency said.If the amendment is approved, all such ads will be banned except those posted in tobacco shops, Xinhua said, citing an official at the NPC law committee.Ads would be banned in public places, hospitals and schools. They would also be forbidden on public transport facilities, the report said. Outdoor ads and window displays for tobacco products would be forbidden.The amendment comes as the state council, China\u2019s cabinet, is also considering a ban on indoor smoking.But intense lobbying by the powerful state tobacco monopoly has in the past stood in the way of controls. China faces a health crisis, with more than 300 million smokers and hundreds of millions more exposed to second-hand smoke each year.But the government is heavily dependent on tobacco taxes, and last year the tobacco industry contributed more than 816 billion yuan (\u00a384bn) to government coffers.Judith Mackay, a Hong Kong-based senior adviser to the World Lung Foundation, said that that the Chinese government dramatically hardened its stance on tobacco control in spring last year after the Central Party School, an influential research institute in Beijing, published a 240-page tome called Tobacco Control: International Experience and China\u2019s Strategy.Officials understand that they \u201chave a massive problem in terms of economic burden and early death, and it\u2019s only going to get worse\u201d, Mackay said.Since March last year, China\u2019s cabinet, education ministry, health ministry, commerce ministry and the People\u2019s Liberation Army have at least proposed regulations to restrict smoking in schools, hospitals, government offices and the military.Mackay noted that China\u2019s president, Xi Jinping, directed the Central Party School in the years it was developing the report. Since Xi became president in 2012, he has cemented a reputation as the country\u2019s most powerful top leader in decades.\u201cIt\u2019s all just coming together, and I think Xi Jinping has made a big difference in that,\u201d Mackay said.\u201cThis is a sea change of attitudes as well as political will just blowing through the country now. They have seven or eight things in motion at the moment. I\u2019m very optimistic about all of this.\u201d", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Smoking", "Society", "Tobacco industry", "Business"], "title": "China considers curbs on tobacco advertising"},{"date": "2014-11-20T18:18:56Z", "country": "china", "content": "Aldi is planning to expand into China, taking the German discounter into its fourth continent.The family owners of the firm are reported to have agreed to the move but no timeframe has been set. Analysts at the Planet Retail consultancy say Aldi is not likely to start operations in east Asia before 2018.The expansion plan was revealed in minutes of meetings between the two arms of the business \u2013 Aldi Nord and Aldi S\u00fcd, which operates in the UK. According to the German business journal, Manager Magazin, Aldi S\u00fcd will take on the China venture. The supermarket group, which is piling pressure on traditional grocers in the UK including Tesco, Morrisons and Sainsbury\u2019s, is scheduled to make its debut in California next year, where it is building a warehouse near Los Angeles.The Chinese market has proved tough for many major western retailers including Tesco and Carrefour. Yujun Qiu, Planet Retail\u2019s China analyst, said: \u201cThe big challenge will be how Chinese consumers will react to Aldi\u2019s private-label ranges. Many are sceptical when it comes to retailers\u2019 own brands and prefer the well-known manufacturer brands instead.\u201d ", "tags": ["Aldi", "China", "Supermarkets", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Retail industry", "Business"], "title": "Aldi plans China move"},{"date": "2014-12-22T15:58:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Chinese anti-corruption authorities have placed Ling Jihua, a top aide to the former president Hu Jintao, under investigation for graft, state media reported.Ling, 58, is under investigation for \u201csuspected serious disciplinary violation\u201d \u2013 almost always shorthand for corruption \u2013 the state newswire Xinhua said in a terse report, without giving further details.Ling, 58, is one of the highest-ranking Communist party officials to be caught up in President Xi Jinping\u2019s anti-corruption drive, the most intense and wide-ranging in China\u2019s recent history.Analysts say the campaign has allowed Xi to consolidate power by undermining rivals while concurrently improving the party\u2019s public image. This month, anti-corruption authorities formally arrested the former security tsar Zhou Yongkang, the country\u2019s highest-ranking official to be prosecuted in more than three decades.In the spring of 2012, months before Xi would replace Hu in a once-in-a-decade leadership transition, Ling\u2019s 23 year-old son Ling Gu crashed a Ferrari while joyriding in Beijing, killing himself and seriously injuring two women. Ling allegedly attempted to engineer a coverup, and fallout from the scandal changed the dynamics of the transition, allowing Xi to replace many of Hu\u2019s top allies with his own.From 2007 until 2012, Ling directed the party\u2019s general office, an administrative body with close ties to China\u2019s top leaders. Analysts believed that Hu was grooming him for advancement to the party\u2019s seven-person politburo standing committee, its highest decision-making body. After the crash, Ling was given a less-vaunted post as head of the United Front Work Department, a government agency that oversees ethnic minority relations, crushing his chances of promotion.Ling was born in a coalmining region of northern China\u2019s Shanxi province, and joined the party when he was 20. He quickly ascended the ranks as Hu\u2019s protege and a member of the Communist Youth League, a prominent party faction.\u201cThe question is not so much why Ling Jihua was in trouble, it\u2019s why it took so long for Ling Jihua to get into trouble,\u201d said Steve Tsang, an expert on Chinese politics at the University of Nottingham. \u201cAnd I think the most likely explanation was that Xi Jinping needed the support of the Communist Youth League and Hu Jintao [to bring down Zhou Yongkang], so basically left Ling Jihua alone. It was a very pragmatic move.\u201dAnti-graft authorities tightened the net around Ling in recent months, placing several of his former associates and two of his brothers under investigation. One of the brothers, Ling Zhengce, was a high-ranking official in Shanxi; the other, Ling Wancheng, was an elite businessman and amateur golfer.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China targets senior official in corruption crackdown"},{"date": "2014-12-22T13:25:10Z", "country": "china", "content": "China is considering tough curbs on tobacco advertising as the world\u2019s top consumer of cigarettes looks to kick the habit, state media reported on Monday.A parliamentary committee of the National People\u2019s Congress (NPC) is weighing up an amendment to China\u2019s advertising law that would protect minors from harmful adverts, including cigarette ads, the Xinhua news agency said.If the amendment is approved, all such ads will be banned except those posted in tobacco shops, Xinhua said, citing an official at the NPC law committee.Ads would be banned in public places, hospitals and schools. They would also be forbidden on public transport facilities, the report said. Outdoor ads and window displays for tobacco products would be forbidden.The amendment comes as the state council, China\u2019s cabinet, is also considering a ban on indoor smoking.But intense lobbying by the powerful state tobacco monopoly has in the past stood in the way of controls. China faces a health crisis, with more than 300 million smokers and hundreds of millions more exposed to second-hand smoke each year.But the government is heavily dependent on tobacco taxes, and last year the tobacco industry contributed more than 816 billion yuan (\u00a384bn) to government coffers.Judith Mackay, a Hong Kong-based senior adviser to the World Lung Foundation, said that that the Chinese government dramatically hardened its stance on tobacco control in spring last year after the Central Party School, an influential research institute in Beijing, published a 240-page tome called Tobacco Control: International Experience and China\u2019s Strategy.Officials understand that they \u201chave a massive problem in terms of economic burden and early death, and it\u2019s only going to get worse\u201d, Mackay said.Since March last year, China\u2019s cabinet, education ministry, health ministry, commerce ministry and the People\u2019s Liberation Army have at least proposed regulations to restrict smoking in schools, hospitals, government offices and the military.Mackay noted that China\u2019s president, Xi Jinping, directed the Central Party School in the years it was developing the report. Since Xi became president in 2012, he has cemented a reputation as the country\u2019s most powerful top leader in decades.\u201cIt\u2019s all just coming together, and I think Xi Jinping has made a big difference in that,\u201d Mackay said.\u201cThis is a sea change of attitudes as well as political will just blowing through the country now. They have seven or eight things in motion at the moment. I\u2019m very optimistic about all of this.\u201d", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Smoking", "Society", "Tobacco industry", "Business"], "title": "China considers curbs on tobacco advertising"},{"date": "2014-12-16T03:37:24Z", "country": "china", "content": "Chinese media coverage of the Lima climate change talks included comments by the country\u2019s top climate negotiator who described the deal reached as \u201cbalanced\u201d. Xie Zhenhua told the state news agency Xinhua that the outcome was \u201cwithin\u201d the Chinese delegation\u2019s expectation. However he said: \u201cwe\u2019re not very satisfied with the outcome, but we think it\u2019s a balanced and nice document\u201d. Xie added that the summit is an important step towards next year\u2019s summit in Paris but that those \u201cnegotiations will be more challenging and require parties to show greater flexibility\u201d.China\u2019s role going into the talks was buoyed by its recent climate deal with the US. In the agreement announced in November, China committed for the first time to cap its output of carbon pollution by 2030 and to increase its use of zero emission energy sources to 20% by 2030.However, while there was much progress on commitments, the issue of historical emissions has once again proven to be a sticking point that China is not willing to let go. \u201cDeveloped countries should honor their commitments and shoulder their responsibilities under the Convention to do more in support of developing countries in terms of mitigation, finance, technology and capability building,\u201d Xie was quoted as saying.A critical opinion piece in the English edition of the state run China Daily newspaper criticised the developed countries\u2019 \u201cdouble standards\u201d and that they have \u201cblurred the difference between responsibilities of the rich and poor nations to fight climate change\u201d.\u201cWhy does the developed world even pretend to help save the planet?\u201d it adds. Li Shuo, climate campaigner with Greenpeace said the issue of common but differentiated responsibilities is \u201cthe most challenging issue\u201d for next year\u2019s climate change summit in Paris. \u201cIt has to be resolved in 2015 to achieve a robust agreement,\u201d Li added. Another difficult negotiating point during the talks was on a method of accounting emission cuts. \u201cThe Lima conference ended up with a weak decision on this issue,\u201d said Li. \u201cLargely as a result of opposition from China and India, there will not be much top down scrutiny that the multilateral process can put on the offers from different countries,\u201d he added. Alvin Lin, the China Climate and Energy Policy Director with the National Resources Defence Council writes that China \u201cis moving in the right direction and should be pro-active in providing the details needed to evaluate its actions, so that other countries can have confidence in China\u2019s actions and in turn step up their own efforts to reduce the threat of global climate change\u201d. ", "tags": ["Environment", "China", "World news", "Climate change", "Cop 20: UN climate change conference | Lima", "Asia Pacific", "Global climate talks"], "title": "China climate negotiator says Lima deal \u2018balanced\u2019"},{"date": "2014-11-20T18:18:56Z", "country": "china", "content": "Aldi is planning to expand into China, taking the German discounter into its fourth continent.The family owners of the firm are reported to have agreed to the move but no timeframe has been set. Analysts at the Planet Retail consultancy say Aldi is not likely to start operations in east Asia before 2018.The expansion plan was revealed in minutes of meetings between the two arms of the business \u2013 Aldi Nord and Aldi S\u00fcd, which operates in the UK. According to the German business journal, Manager Magazin, Aldi S\u00fcd will take on the China venture. The supermarket group, which is piling pressure on traditional grocers in the UK including Tesco, Morrisons and Sainsbury\u2019s, is scheduled to make its debut in California next year, where it is building a warehouse near Los Angeles.The Chinese market has proved tough for many major western retailers including Tesco and Carrefour. Yujun Qiu, Planet Retail\u2019s China analyst, said: \u201cThe big challenge will be how Chinese consumers will react to Aldi\u2019s private-label ranges. Many are sceptical when it comes to retailers\u2019 own brands and prefer the well-known manufacturer brands instead.\u201d ", "tags": ["Aldi", "China", "Supermarkets", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Retail industry", "Business"], "title": "Aldi plans China move"},{"date": "2014-12-22T15:58:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Chinese anti-corruption authorities have placed Ling Jihua, a top aide to the former president Hu Jintao, under investigation for graft, state media reported.Ling, 58, is under investigation for \u201csuspected serious disciplinary violation\u201d \u2013 almost always shorthand for corruption \u2013 the state newswire Xinhua said in a terse report, without giving further details.Ling, 58, is one of the highest-ranking Communist party officials to be caught up in President Xi Jinping\u2019s anti-corruption drive, the most intense and wide-ranging in China\u2019s recent history.Analysts say the campaign has allowed Xi to consolidate power by undermining rivals while concurrently improving the party\u2019s public image. This month, anti-corruption authorities formally arrested the former security tsar Zhou Yongkang, the country\u2019s highest-ranking official to be prosecuted in more than three decades.In the spring of 2012, months before Xi would replace Hu in a once-in-a-decade leadership transition, Ling\u2019s 23 year-old son Ling Gu crashed a Ferrari while joyriding in Beijing, killing himself and seriously injuring two women. Ling allegedly attempted to engineer a coverup, and fallout from the scandal changed the dynamics of the transition, allowing Xi to replace many of Hu\u2019s top allies with his own.From 2007 until 2012, Ling directed the party\u2019s general office, an administrative body with close ties to China\u2019s top leaders. Analysts believed that Hu was grooming him for advancement to the party\u2019s seven-person politburo standing committee, its highest decision-making body. After the crash, Ling was given a less-vaunted post as head of the United Front Work Department, a government agency that oversees ethnic minority relations, crushing his chances of promotion.Ling was born in a coalmining region of northern China\u2019s Shanxi province, and joined the party when he was 20. He quickly ascended the ranks as Hu\u2019s protege and a member of the Communist Youth League, a prominent party faction.\u201cThe question is not so much why Ling Jihua was in trouble, it\u2019s why it took so long for Ling Jihua to get into trouble,\u201d said Steve Tsang, an expert on Chinese politics at the University of Nottingham. \u201cAnd I think the most likely explanation was that Xi Jinping needed the support of the Communist Youth League and Hu Jintao [to bring down Zhou Yongkang], so basically left Ling Jihua alone. It was a very pragmatic move.\u201dAnti-graft authorities tightened the net around Ling in recent months, placing several of his former associates and two of his brothers under investigation. One of the brothers, Ling Zhengce, was a high-ranking official in Shanxi; the other, Ling Wancheng, was an elite businessman and amateur golfer.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China targets senior official in corruption crackdown"},{"date": "2014-12-22T13:25:10Z", "country": "china", "content": "China is considering tough curbs on tobacco advertising as the world\u2019s top consumer of cigarettes looks to kick the habit, state media reported on Monday.A parliamentary committee of the National People\u2019s Congress (NPC) is weighing up an amendment to China\u2019s advertising law that would protect minors from harmful adverts, including cigarette ads, the Xinhua news agency said.If the amendment is approved, all such ads will be banned except those posted in tobacco shops, Xinhua said, citing an official at the NPC law committee.Ads would be banned in public places, hospitals and schools. They would also be forbidden on public transport facilities, the report said. Outdoor ads and window displays for tobacco products would be forbidden.The amendment comes as the state council, China\u2019s cabinet, is also considering a ban on indoor smoking.But intense lobbying by the powerful state tobacco monopoly has in the past stood in the way of controls. China faces a health crisis, with more than 300 million smokers and hundreds of millions more exposed to second-hand smoke each year.But the government is heavily dependent on tobacco taxes, and last year the tobacco industry contributed more than 816 billion yuan (\u00a384bn) to government coffers.Judith Mackay, a Hong Kong-based senior adviser to the World Lung Foundation, said that that the Chinese government dramatically hardened its stance on tobacco control in spring last year after the Central Party School, an influential research institute in Beijing, published a 240-page tome called Tobacco Control: International Experience and China\u2019s Strategy.Officials understand that they \u201chave a massive problem in terms of economic burden and early death, and it\u2019s only going to get worse\u201d, Mackay said.Since March last year, China\u2019s cabinet, education ministry, health ministry, commerce ministry and the People\u2019s Liberation Army have at least proposed regulations to restrict smoking in schools, hospitals, government offices and the military.Mackay noted that China\u2019s president, Xi Jinping, directed the Central Party School in the years it was developing the report. Since Xi became president in 2012, he has cemented a reputation as the country\u2019s most powerful top leader in decades.\u201cIt\u2019s all just coming together, and I think Xi Jinping has made a big difference in that,\u201d Mackay said.\u201cThis is a sea change of attitudes as well as political will just blowing through the country now. They have seven or eight things in motion at the moment. I\u2019m very optimistic about all of this.\u201d", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Smoking", "Society", "Tobacco industry", "Business"], "title": "China considers curbs on tobacco advertising"},{"date": "2014-12-16T03:37:24Z", "country": "china", "content": "Chinese media coverage of the Lima climate change talks included comments by the country\u2019s top climate negotiator who described the deal reached as \u201cbalanced\u201d. Xie Zhenhua told the state news agency Xinhua that the outcome was \u201cwithin\u201d the Chinese delegation\u2019s expectation. However he said: \u201cwe\u2019re not very satisfied with the outcome, but we think it\u2019s a balanced and nice document\u201d. Xie added that the summit is an important step towards next year\u2019s summit in Paris but that those \u201cnegotiations will be more challenging and require parties to show greater flexibility\u201d.China\u2019s role going into the talks was buoyed by its recent climate deal with the US. In the agreement announced in November, China committed for the first time to cap its output of carbon pollution by 2030 and to increase its use of zero emission energy sources to 20% by 2030.However, while there was much progress on commitments, the issue of historical emissions has once again proven to be a sticking point that China is not willing to let go. \u201cDeveloped countries should honor their commitments and shoulder their responsibilities under the Convention to do more in support of developing countries in terms of mitigation, finance, technology and capability building,\u201d Xie was quoted as saying.A critical opinion piece in the English edition of the state run China Daily newspaper criticised the developed countries\u2019 \u201cdouble standards\u201d and that they have \u201cblurred the difference between responsibilities of the rich and poor nations to fight climate change\u201d.\u201cWhy does the developed world even pretend to help save the planet?\u201d it adds. Li Shuo, climate campaigner with Greenpeace said the issue of common but differentiated responsibilities is \u201cthe most challenging issue\u201d for next year\u2019s climate change summit in Paris. \u201cIt has to be resolved in 2015 to achieve a robust agreement,\u201d Li added. Another difficult negotiating point during the talks was on a method of accounting emission cuts. \u201cThe Lima conference ended up with a weak decision on this issue,\u201d said Li. \u201cLargely as a result of opposition from China and India, there will not be much top down scrutiny that the multilateral process can put on the offers from different countries,\u201d he added. Alvin Lin, the China Climate and Energy Policy Director with the National Resources Defence Council writes that China \u201cis moving in the right direction and should be pro-active in providing the details needed to evaluate its actions, so that other countries can have confidence in China\u2019s actions and in turn step up their own efforts to reduce the threat of global climate change\u201d. ", "tags": ["Environment", "China", "World news", "Climate change", "Cop 20: UN climate change conference | Lima", "Asia Pacific", "Global climate talks"], "title": "China climate negotiator says Lima deal \u2018balanced\u2019"},{"date": "2014-12-10T09:22:20Z", "country": "china", "content": "It\u2019s difficult to fit all that has happened over the past two years into 700 words. Exporting to China has been an interesting and rewarding journey, both personally and for the business. Trioni has been through rapid expansion since we started trading internationally in 2012, yet China was never an official part of our strategy; instead it was just a hunch that led the team to take advantage of the opportunity when it arose.In 2011, we exhibited Trioni (a range of organic dairy products) at the Anuga Food Fair in Cologne and met a distributor from China who was interested in our offering. Initial discussions showed us just how highly the Chinese regard British products \u2013 particularly milk. They see it as a health drink, recognising the quality and integrity with which we export our home-grown produce. Couple this with the far-reaching impact of the 2008 and 2010 China milk scandals, and it\u2019s not hard to understand why British products might be highly favoured.In fact, it was from the knock-on effect of these scandals that Chinese Organic Certification came about. Encompassing a selection of rules imposed by the Chinese government, everything from our factories to our packaging and labelling had to be assessed and deemed safe for import. It was a daunting process, with a number of obstacles to overcome, particularly with regard to paperwork. In fact it isn\u2019t something we could have even thought about achieving without the support of the Welsh government, FDEA and UKTI, all of which helped us in equal measure.Family support was also of enormous help. My son Ben lives in Hong Kong and works for an investment company there. His advice on doing business with China was invaluable. Face-to-face meetings are an absolute necessity, as it makes it easier to negotiate with a translator in the room with you, as opposed to over email or the phone. And, of course, travelling for business meetings never felt like a chore when it meant I was getting to see my son as well.Travelling is always a learning curve, whether for business or pleasure and we definitely learned a lot in our first few months exporting to China. There were many challenges including the paperwork, how best to build relationships in a foreign country, and China\u2019s strict regulations for market entry.We made our second shipment to China after the new laws came into play. Although these were needed, they meant additional testing and re-testing of our product before being allowed entry.If you\u2019re considering exporting, I\u2019d always suggest getting out there yourself and personally checking out the market. Look into the country and competitors already established there. Be aware of potential import tariffs and the price competitors are charging so you can position your product accordingly. I went on a trade mission with the UKTI to China, which was invaluable in getting under the skin of the country.Although visiting the country is a necessity, there are many things you can do with your feet firmly on British soil \u2013 sourcing funding is one of them. The UKTI and FDEA were, again, incredibly supportive in this and helped to point me in the right direction.I\u2019ve thoroughly enjoyed the experience of exporting and I am definitely looking to expand our presence further. Some things, however, will be trial and error. No matter what your previous international experience, until that first batch of product lands on foreign shores you can never fully predict what you\u2019ll come up against. It\u2019s an exciting time ahead for any business and although I feel slightly more confident and relaxed about the thought of expanding further, there will always be challenges to confront. But that\u2019s part of the fun when you achieve it.Laurence Harris is the founder of Trioni Ltd.Exporting to China: a guide for small businessesCultural complexity: the etiquette of doing business abroadSign up to become a member of the Guardian Small Business Network here for more advice, insight and best practice direct to your inbox.", "tags": ["Exporting to new markets", "Guardian Small Business Network", "Small business", "Business", "Milk"], "title": "How I began exporting milk to China"},{"date": "2014-11-20T18:18:56Z", "country": "china", "content": "Aldi is planning to expand into China, taking the German discounter into its fourth continent.The family owners of the firm are reported to have agreed to the move but no timeframe has been set. Analysts at the Planet Retail consultancy say Aldi is not likely to start operations in east Asia before 2018.The expansion plan was revealed in minutes of meetings between the two arms of the business \u2013 Aldi Nord and Aldi S\u00fcd, which operates in the UK. According to the German business journal, Manager Magazin, Aldi S\u00fcd will take on the China venture. The supermarket group, which is piling pressure on traditional grocers in the UK including Tesco, Morrisons and Sainsbury\u2019s, is scheduled to make its debut in California next year, where it is building a warehouse near Los Angeles.The Chinese market has proved tough for many major western retailers including Tesco and Carrefour. Yujun Qiu, Planet Retail\u2019s China analyst, said: \u201cThe big challenge will be how Chinese consumers will react to Aldi\u2019s private-label ranges. Many are sceptical when it comes to retailers\u2019 own brands and prefer the well-known manufacturer brands instead.\u201d ", "tags": ["Aldi", "China", "Supermarkets", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Retail industry", "Business"], "title": "Aldi plans China move"},{"date": "2014-12-22T15:58:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Chinese anti-corruption authorities have placed Ling Jihua, a top aide to the former president Hu Jintao, under investigation for graft, state media reported.Ling, 58, is under investigation for \u201csuspected serious disciplinary violation\u201d \u2013 almost always shorthand for corruption \u2013 the state newswire Xinhua said in a terse report, without giving further details.Ling, 58, is one of the highest-ranking Communist party officials to be caught up in President Xi Jinping\u2019s anti-corruption drive, the most intense and wide-ranging in China\u2019s recent history.Analysts say the campaign has allowed Xi to consolidate power by undermining rivals while concurrently improving the party\u2019s public image. This month, anti-corruption authorities formally arrested the former security tsar Zhou Yongkang, the country\u2019s highest-ranking official to be prosecuted in more than three decades.In the spring of 2012, months before Xi would replace Hu in a once-in-a-decade leadership transition, Ling\u2019s 23 year-old son Ling Gu crashed a Ferrari while joyriding in Beijing, killing himself and seriously injuring two women. Ling allegedly attempted to engineer a coverup, and fallout from the scandal changed the dynamics of the transition, allowing Xi to replace many of Hu\u2019s top allies with his own.From 2007 until 2012, Ling directed the party\u2019s general office, an administrative body with close ties to China\u2019s top leaders. Analysts believed that Hu was grooming him for advancement to the party\u2019s seven-person politburo standing committee, its highest decision-making body. After the crash, Ling was given a less-vaunted post as head of the United Front Work Department, a government agency that oversees ethnic minority relations, crushing his chances of promotion.Ling was born in a coalmining region of northern China\u2019s Shanxi province, and joined the party when he was 20. He quickly ascended the ranks as Hu\u2019s protege and a member of the Communist Youth League, a prominent party faction.\u201cThe question is not so much why Ling Jihua was in trouble, it\u2019s why it took so long for Ling Jihua to get into trouble,\u201d said Steve Tsang, an expert on Chinese politics at the University of Nottingham. \u201cAnd I think the most likely explanation was that Xi Jinping needed the support of the Communist Youth League and Hu Jintao [to bring down Zhou Yongkang], so basically left Ling Jihua alone. It was a very pragmatic move.\u201dAnti-graft authorities tightened the net around Ling in recent months, placing several of his former associates and two of his brothers under investigation. One of the brothers, Ling Zhengce, was a high-ranking official in Shanxi; the other, Ling Wancheng, was an elite businessman and amateur golfer.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China targets senior official in corruption crackdown"},{"date": "2014-12-22T13:25:10Z", "country": "china", "content": "China is considering tough curbs on tobacco advertising as the world\u2019s top consumer of cigarettes looks to kick the habit, state media reported on Monday.A parliamentary committee of the National People\u2019s Congress (NPC) is weighing up an amendment to China\u2019s advertising law that would protect minors from harmful adverts, including cigarette ads, the Xinhua news agency said.If the amendment is approved, all such ads will be banned except those posted in tobacco shops, Xinhua said, citing an official at the NPC law committee.Ads would be banned in public places, hospitals and schools. They would also be forbidden on public transport facilities, the report said. Outdoor ads and window displays for tobacco products would be forbidden.The amendment comes as the state council, China\u2019s cabinet, is also considering a ban on indoor smoking.But intense lobbying by the powerful state tobacco monopoly has in the past stood in the way of controls. China faces a health crisis, with more than 300 million smokers and hundreds of millions more exposed to second-hand smoke each year.But the government is heavily dependent on tobacco taxes, and last year the tobacco industry contributed more than 816 billion yuan (\u00a384bn) to government coffers.Judith Mackay, a Hong Kong-based senior adviser to the World Lung Foundation, said that that the Chinese government dramatically hardened its stance on tobacco control in spring last year after the Central Party School, an influential research institute in Beijing, published a 240-page tome called Tobacco Control: International Experience and China\u2019s Strategy.Officials understand that they \u201chave a massive problem in terms of economic burden and early death, and it\u2019s only going to get worse\u201d, Mackay said.Since March last year, China\u2019s cabinet, education ministry, health ministry, commerce ministry and the People\u2019s Liberation Army have at least proposed regulations to restrict smoking in schools, hospitals, government offices and the military.Mackay noted that China\u2019s president, Xi Jinping, directed the Central Party School in the years it was developing the report. Since Xi became president in 2012, he has cemented a reputation as the country\u2019s most powerful top leader in decades.\u201cIt\u2019s all just coming together, and I think Xi Jinping has made a big difference in that,\u201d Mackay said.\u201cThis is a sea change of attitudes as well as political will just blowing through the country now. They have seven or eight things in motion at the moment. I\u2019m very optimistic about all of this.\u201d", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Smoking", "Society", "Tobacco industry", "Business"], "title": "China considers curbs on tobacco advertising"},{"date": "2014-12-16T03:37:24Z", "country": "china", "content": "Chinese media coverage of the Lima climate change talks included comments by the country\u2019s top climate negotiator who described the deal reached as \u201cbalanced\u201d. Xie Zhenhua told the state news agency Xinhua that the outcome was \u201cwithin\u201d the Chinese delegation\u2019s expectation. However he said: \u201cwe\u2019re not very satisfied with the outcome, but we think it\u2019s a balanced and nice document\u201d. Xie added that the summit is an important step towards next year\u2019s summit in Paris but that those \u201cnegotiations will be more challenging and require parties to show greater flexibility\u201d.China\u2019s role going into the talks was buoyed by its recent climate deal with the US. In the agreement announced in November, China committed for the first time to cap its output of carbon pollution by 2030 and to increase its use of zero emission energy sources to 20% by 2030.However, while there was much progress on commitments, the issue of historical emissions has once again proven to be a sticking point that China is not willing to let go. \u201cDeveloped countries should honor their commitments and shoulder their responsibilities under the Convention to do more in support of developing countries in terms of mitigation, finance, technology and capability building,\u201d Xie was quoted as saying.A critical opinion piece in the English edition of the state run China Daily newspaper criticised the developed countries\u2019 \u201cdouble standards\u201d and that they have \u201cblurred the difference between responsibilities of the rich and poor nations to fight climate change\u201d.\u201cWhy does the developed world even pretend to help save the planet?\u201d it adds. Li Shuo, climate campaigner with Greenpeace said the issue of common but differentiated responsibilities is \u201cthe most challenging issue\u201d for next year\u2019s climate change summit in Paris. \u201cIt has to be resolved in 2015 to achieve a robust agreement,\u201d Li added. Another difficult negotiating point during the talks was on a method of accounting emission cuts. \u201cThe Lima conference ended up with a weak decision on this issue,\u201d said Li. \u201cLargely as a result of opposition from China and India, there will not be much top down scrutiny that the multilateral process can put on the offers from different countries,\u201d he added. Alvin Lin, the China Climate and Energy Policy Director with the National Resources Defence Council writes that China \u201cis moving in the right direction and should be pro-active in providing the details needed to evaluate its actions, so that other countries can have confidence in China\u2019s actions and in turn step up their own efforts to reduce the threat of global climate change\u201d. ", "tags": ["Environment", "China", "World news", "Climate change", "Cop 20: UN climate change conference | Lima", "Asia Pacific", "Global climate talks"], "title": "China climate negotiator says Lima deal \u2018balanced\u2019"},{"date": "2014-12-10T09:22:20Z", "country": "china", "content": "It\u2019s difficult to fit all that has happened over the past two years into 700 words. Exporting to China has been an interesting and rewarding journey, both personally and for the business. Trioni has been through rapid expansion since we started trading internationally in 2012, yet China was never an official part of our strategy; instead it was just a hunch that led the team to take advantage of the opportunity when it arose.In 2011, we exhibited Trioni (a range of organic dairy products) at the Anuga Food Fair in Cologne and met a distributor from China who was interested in our offering. Initial discussions showed us just how highly the Chinese regard British products \u2013 particularly milk. They see it as a health drink, recognising the quality and integrity with which we export our home-grown produce. Couple this with the far-reaching impact of the 2008 and 2010 China milk scandals, and it\u2019s not hard to understand why British products might be highly favoured.In fact, it was from the knock-on effect of these scandals that Chinese Organic Certification came about. Encompassing a selection of rules imposed by the Chinese government, everything from our factories to our packaging and labelling had to be assessed and deemed safe for import. It was a daunting process, with a number of obstacles to overcome, particularly with regard to paperwork. In fact it isn\u2019t something we could have even thought about achieving without the support of the Welsh government, FDEA and UKTI, all of which helped us in equal measure.Family support was also of enormous help. My son Ben lives in Hong Kong and works for an investment company there. His advice on doing business with China was invaluable. Face-to-face meetings are an absolute necessity, as it makes it easier to negotiate with a translator in the room with you, as opposed to over email or the phone. And, of course, travelling for business meetings never felt like a chore when it meant I was getting to see my son as well.Travelling is always a learning curve, whether for business or pleasure and we definitely learned a lot in our first few months exporting to China. There were many challenges including the paperwork, how best to build relationships in a foreign country, and China\u2019s strict regulations for market entry.We made our second shipment to China after the new laws came into play. Although these were needed, they meant additional testing and re-testing of our product before being allowed entry.If you\u2019re considering exporting, I\u2019d always suggest getting out there yourself and personally checking out the market. Look into the country and competitors already established there. Be aware of potential import tariffs and the price competitors are charging so you can position your product accordingly. I went on a trade mission with the UKTI to China, which was invaluable in getting under the skin of the country.Although visiting the country is a necessity, there are many things you can do with your feet firmly on British soil \u2013 sourcing funding is one of them. The UKTI and FDEA were, again, incredibly supportive in this and helped to point me in the right direction.I\u2019ve thoroughly enjoyed the experience of exporting and I am definitely looking to expand our presence further. Some things, however, will be trial and error. No matter what your previous international experience, until that first batch of product lands on foreign shores you can never fully predict what you\u2019ll come up against. It\u2019s an exciting time ahead for any business and although I feel slightly more confident and relaxed about the thought of expanding further, there will always be challenges to confront. But that\u2019s part of the fun when you achieve it.Laurence Harris is the founder of Trioni Ltd.Exporting to China: a guide for small businessesCultural complexity: the etiquette of doing business abroadSign up to become a member of the Guardian Small Business Network here for more advice, insight and best practice direct to your inbox.", "tags": ["Exporting to new markets", "Guardian Small Business Network", "Small business", "Business", "Milk"], "title": "How I began exporting milk to China"},{"date": "2014-11-21T17:20:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "World stock markets soared on Friday as China\u2019s central bank moved to head off a sharp slowdown in growth with its first cut in interest rates for two years.The People\u2019s Bank of China said it would lower its one-year benchmark lending rate at the weekend by almost half a percentage point to 5.6% and cut its one-year deposit rate amid concerns that the world\u2019s second largest economy is weakening. The FTSE 100 closed 1% higher at 6750.76 on Friday, while the Dow Jones was also higher in early trading.Analysts said one of the main effects of the interest rate cut would be to force down the yuan against the yen and the dollar, helping China to export its way out of trouble. The yuan has already fallen 10% against the dollar since the summer from a level that was widely regarded as overvalued and may have further to go in the coming months as the economy struggles and the US recovery gathers pace.The interest rate cut will be welcomed by the millions of Chinese homeowners who pay a large proportion of their salary each month on mortgage payments. Rocketing mortgage debt has become a huge problem in China alongside the massive debts racked up by state enterprises and local authorities.Officials at the central bank, aware that many homeowners have reduced spending on other items, will hope lower borrowing costs and the cut in deposit rates will encourage them to boost expenditure in other areas of the economy.China\u2019s slowdown was highlighted by David Cameron as one of his red warning lights signalling the danger of a second financial crash. He said faltering growth in emerging markets was a cause for concern alongside the escalating dispute in Ukraine and the Ebola crisis.Beijing has maintained that GDP growth continues to stay above 7%. Government figures for the third quarter this year estimated growth at 7.3%.However, this was the slowest pace for more than five years and unofficial estimates have put growth at no higher than 5%. While even this rate of expansion is still almost double the UK\u2019s rise in GDP this year, many economists believe China needs to grow by at least 6% a year just to keep pace with population growth.Beijing has already seen its manufacturing output come perilously close to contraction after hitting its lowest level for six months in October. The HSBC flash PMI reading dropped to 50.0, down from the previous month\u2019s 50.4, with a reading above 50 indicating expansion in the sector.The manufacturing data is the latest in a steady stream of weaker-than-expected indicators in recent weeks as trading conditions remain difficult. Credit and investment growth have also slowed.Marc Ostwald, a strategist at broker ADM ISI, warned China\u2019s rate cut could spark a currency war among other emerging nations in the region.\u201cOne can certainly also expect a response from South Korea and others in south-east Asia and a rate cut from India\u2019s central bank also seems likely.\u201dEuropean Central Bank (ECB) boss Mario Draghi also strongly hinted that he plans to drive the euro lower to help eurozone economies become more competitive.Draghi said that if current measures were not enough to spur growth and prevent inflation from settling at uncomfortably low levels, the ECB\u2019s governing council would \u201cbroaden even more the channels through which we intervene, by altering accordingly the size, pace and composition of our purchases\u201d.Nick Kounis, head of financial markets research at ABN Amro, said: \u201cDraghi all but announced that the central bank will step up monetary easing soon. Mr Maybe has become Mr Definitely \u2013 striking an even more dovish tone than at the press conference earlier in the month.\u201dThe ECB has already set out proposals to increase its funding to the financial markets to \u20ac2tn and this plan could entail joining the quantitative easing programme adopted by the Bank of England and US and Japanese central banks.", "tags": ["Global economy", "Economics", "Business", "Stock markets", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "Global shares boosted by China rate cut"},{"date": "2014-11-20T18:18:56Z", "country": "china", "content": "Aldi is planning to expand into China, taking the German discounter into its fourth continent.The family owners of the firm are reported to have agreed to the move but no timeframe has been set. Analysts at the Planet Retail consultancy say Aldi is not likely to start operations in east Asia before 2018.The expansion plan was revealed in minutes of meetings between the two arms of the business \u2013 Aldi Nord and Aldi S\u00fcd, which operates in the UK. According to the German business journal, Manager Magazin, Aldi S\u00fcd will take on the China venture. The supermarket group, which is piling pressure on traditional grocers in the UK including Tesco, Morrisons and Sainsbury\u2019s, is scheduled to make its debut in California next year, where it is building a warehouse near Los Angeles.The Chinese market has proved tough for many major western retailers including Tesco and Carrefour. Yujun Qiu, Planet Retail\u2019s China analyst, said: \u201cThe big challenge will be how Chinese consumers will react to Aldi\u2019s private-label ranges. Many are sceptical when it comes to retailers\u2019 own brands and prefer the well-known manufacturer brands instead.\u201d ", "tags": ["Aldi", "China", "Supermarkets", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Retail industry", "Business"], "title": "Aldi plans China move"},{"date": "2014-12-22T15:58:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Chinese anti-corruption authorities have placed Ling Jihua, a top aide to the former president Hu Jintao, under investigation for graft, state media reported.Ling, 58, is under investigation for \u201csuspected serious disciplinary violation\u201d \u2013 almost always shorthand for corruption \u2013 the state newswire Xinhua said in a terse report, without giving further details.Ling, 58, is one of the highest-ranking Communist party officials to be caught up in President Xi Jinping\u2019s anti-corruption drive, the most intense and wide-ranging in China\u2019s recent history.Analysts say the campaign has allowed Xi to consolidate power by undermining rivals while concurrently improving the party\u2019s public image. This month, anti-corruption authorities formally arrested the former security tsar Zhou Yongkang, the country\u2019s highest-ranking official to be prosecuted in more than three decades.In the spring of 2012, months before Xi would replace Hu in a once-in-a-decade leadership transition, Ling\u2019s 23 year-old son Ling Gu crashed a Ferrari while joyriding in Beijing, killing himself and seriously injuring two women. Ling allegedly attempted to engineer a coverup, and fallout from the scandal changed the dynamics of the transition, allowing Xi to replace many of Hu\u2019s top allies with his own.From 2007 until 2012, Ling directed the party\u2019s general office, an administrative body with close ties to China\u2019s top leaders. Analysts believed that Hu was grooming him for advancement to the party\u2019s seven-person politburo standing committee, its highest decision-making body. After the crash, Ling was given a less-vaunted post as head of the United Front Work Department, a government agency that oversees ethnic minority relations, crushing his chances of promotion.Ling was born in a coalmining region of northern China\u2019s Shanxi province, and joined the party when he was 20. He quickly ascended the ranks as Hu\u2019s protege and a member of the Communist Youth League, a prominent party faction.\u201cThe question is not so much why Ling Jihua was in trouble, it\u2019s why it took so long for Ling Jihua to get into trouble,\u201d said Steve Tsang, an expert on Chinese politics at the University of Nottingham. \u201cAnd I think the most likely explanation was that Xi Jinping needed the support of the Communist Youth League and Hu Jintao [to bring down Zhou Yongkang], so basically left Ling Jihua alone. It was a very pragmatic move.\u201dAnti-graft authorities tightened the net around Ling in recent months, placing several of his former associates and two of his brothers under investigation. One of the brothers, Ling Zhengce, was a high-ranking official in Shanxi; the other, Ling Wancheng, was an elite businessman and amateur golfer.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China targets senior official in corruption crackdown"},{"date": "2014-12-22T13:25:10Z", "country": "china", "content": "China is considering tough curbs on tobacco advertising as the world\u2019s top consumer of cigarettes looks to kick the habit, state media reported on Monday.A parliamentary committee of the National People\u2019s Congress (NPC) is weighing up an amendment to China\u2019s advertising law that would protect minors from harmful adverts, including cigarette ads, the Xinhua news agency said.If the amendment is approved, all such ads will be banned except those posted in tobacco shops, Xinhua said, citing an official at the NPC law committee.Ads would be banned in public places, hospitals and schools. They would also be forbidden on public transport facilities, the report said. Outdoor ads and window displays for tobacco products would be forbidden.The amendment comes as the state council, China\u2019s cabinet, is also considering a ban on indoor smoking.But intense lobbying by the powerful state tobacco monopoly has in the past stood in the way of controls. China faces a health crisis, with more than 300 million smokers and hundreds of millions more exposed to second-hand smoke each year.But the government is heavily dependent on tobacco taxes, and last year the tobacco industry contributed more than 816 billion yuan (\u00a384bn) to government coffers.Judith Mackay, a Hong Kong-based senior adviser to the World Lung Foundation, said that that the Chinese government dramatically hardened its stance on tobacco control in spring last year after the Central Party School, an influential research institute in Beijing, published a 240-page tome called Tobacco Control: International Experience and China\u2019s Strategy.Officials understand that they \u201chave a massive problem in terms of economic burden and early death, and it\u2019s only going to get worse\u201d, Mackay said.Since March last year, China\u2019s cabinet, education ministry, health ministry, commerce ministry and the People\u2019s Liberation Army have at least proposed regulations to restrict smoking in schools, hospitals, government offices and the military.Mackay noted that China\u2019s president, Xi Jinping, directed the Central Party School in the years it was developing the report. Since Xi became president in 2012, he has cemented a reputation as the country\u2019s most powerful top leader in decades.\u201cIt\u2019s all just coming together, and I think Xi Jinping has made a big difference in that,\u201d Mackay said.\u201cThis is a sea change of attitudes as well as political will just blowing through the country now. They have seven or eight things in motion at the moment. I\u2019m very optimistic about all of this.\u201d", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Smoking", "Society", "Tobacco industry", "Business"], "title": "China considers curbs on tobacco advertising"},{"date": "2014-12-16T03:37:24Z", "country": "china", "content": "Chinese media coverage of the Lima climate change talks included comments by the country\u2019s top climate negotiator who described the deal reached as \u201cbalanced\u201d. Xie Zhenhua told the state news agency Xinhua that the outcome was \u201cwithin\u201d the Chinese delegation\u2019s expectation. However he said: \u201cwe\u2019re not very satisfied with the outcome, but we think it\u2019s a balanced and nice document\u201d. Xie added that the summit is an important step towards next year\u2019s summit in Paris but that those \u201cnegotiations will be more challenging and require parties to show greater flexibility\u201d.China\u2019s role going into the talks was buoyed by its recent climate deal with the US. In the agreement announced in November, China committed for the first time to cap its output of carbon pollution by 2030 and to increase its use of zero emission energy sources to 20% by 2030.However, while there was much progress on commitments, the issue of historical emissions has once again proven to be a sticking point that China is not willing to let go. \u201cDeveloped countries should honor their commitments and shoulder their responsibilities under the Convention to do more in support of developing countries in terms of mitigation, finance, technology and capability building,\u201d Xie was quoted as saying.A critical opinion piece in the English edition of the state run China Daily newspaper criticised the developed countries\u2019 \u201cdouble standards\u201d and that they have \u201cblurred the difference between responsibilities of the rich and poor nations to fight climate change\u201d.\u201cWhy does the developed world even pretend to help save the planet?\u201d it adds. Li Shuo, climate campaigner with Greenpeace said the issue of common but differentiated responsibilities is \u201cthe most challenging issue\u201d for next year\u2019s climate change summit in Paris. \u201cIt has to be resolved in 2015 to achieve a robust agreement,\u201d Li added. Another difficult negotiating point during the talks was on a method of accounting emission cuts. \u201cThe Lima conference ended up with a weak decision on this issue,\u201d said Li. \u201cLargely as a result of opposition from China and India, there will not be much top down scrutiny that the multilateral process can put on the offers from different countries,\u201d he added. Alvin Lin, the China Climate and Energy Policy Director with the National Resources Defence Council writes that China \u201cis moving in the right direction and should be pro-active in providing the details needed to evaluate its actions, so that other countries can have confidence in China\u2019s actions and in turn step up their own efforts to reduce the threat of global climate change\u201d. ", "tags": ["Environment", "China", "World news", "Climate change", "Cop 20: UN climate change conference | Lima", "Asia Pacific", "Global climate talks"], "title": "China climate negotiator says Lima deal \u2018balanced\u2019"},{"date": "2014-12-10T09:22:20Z", "country": "china", "content": "It\u2019s difficult to fit all that has happened over the past two years into 700 words. Exporting to China has been an interesting and rewarding journey, both personally and for the business. Trioni has been through rapid expansion since we started trading internationally in 2012, yet China was never an official part of our strategy; instead it was just a hunch that led the team to take advantage of the opportunity when it arose.In 2011, we exhibited Trioni (a range of organic dairy products) at the Anuga Food Fair in Cologne and met a distributor from China who was interested in our offering. Initial discussions showed us just how highly the Chinese regard British products \u2013 particularly milk. They see it as a health drink, recognising the quality and integrity with which we export our home-grown produce. Couple this with the far-reaching impact of the 2008 and 2010 China milk scandals, and it\u2019s not hard to understand why British products might be highly favoured.In fact, it was from the knock-on effect of these scandals that Chinese Organic Certification came about. Encompassing a selection of rules imposed by the Chinese government, everything from our factories to our packaging and labelling had to be assessed and deemed safe for import. It was a daunting process, with a number of obstacles to overcome, particularly with regard to paperwork. In fact it isn\u2019t something we could have even thought about achieving without the support of the Welsh government, FDEA and UKTI, all of which helped us in equal measure.Family support was also of enormous help. My son Ben lives in Hong Kong and works for an investment company there. His advice on doing business with China was invaluable. Face-to-face meetings are an absolute necessity, as it makes it easier to negotiate with a translator in the room with you, as opposed to over email or the phone. And, of course, travelling for business meetings never felt like a chore when it meant I was getting to see my son as well.Travelling is always a learning curve, whether for business or pleasure and we definitely learned a lot in our first few months exporting to China. There were many challenges including the paperwork, how best to build relationships in a foreign country, and China\u2019s strict regulations for market entry.We made our second shipment to China after the new laws came into play. Although these were needed, they meant additional testing and re-testing of our product before being allowed entry.If you\u2019re considering exporting, I\u2019d always suggest getting out there yourself and personally checking out the market. Look into the country and competitors already established there. Be aware of potential import tariffs and the price competitors are charging so you can position your product accordingly. I went on a trade mission with the UKTI to China, which was invaluable in getting under the skin of the country.Although visiting the country is a necessity, there are many things you can do with your feet firmly on British soil \u2013 sourcing funding is one of them. The UKTI and FDEA were, again, incredibly supportive in this and helped to point me in the right direction.I\u2019ve thoroughly enjoyed the experience of exporting and I am definitely looking to expand our presence further. Some things, however, will be trial and error. No matter what your previous international experience, until that first batch of product lands on foreign shores you can never fully predict what you\u2019ll come up against. It\u2019s an exciting time ahead for any business and although I feel slightly more confident and relaxed about the thought of expanding further, there will always be challenges to confront. But that\u2019s part of the fun when you achieve it.Laurence Harris is the founder of Trioni Ltd.Exporting to China: a guide for small businessesCultural complexity: the etiquette of doing business abroadSign up to become a member of the Guardian Small Business Network here for more advice, insight and best practice direct to your inbox.", "tags": ["Exporting to new markets", "Guardian Small Business Network", "Small business", "Business", "Milk"], "title": "How I began exporting milk to China"},{"date": "2014-11-21T17:20:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "World stock markets soared on Friday as China\u2019s central bank moved to head off a sharp slowdown in growth with its first cut in interest rates for two years.The People\u2019s Bank of China said it would lower its one-year benchmark lending rate at the weekend by almost half a percentage point to 5.6% and cut its one-year deposit rate amid concerns that the world\u2019s second largest economy is weakening. The FTSE 100 closed 1% higher at 6750.76 on Friday, while the Dow Jones was also higher in early trading.Analysts said one of the main effects of the interest rate cut would be to force down the yuan against the yen and the dollar, helping China to export its way out of trouble. The yuan has already fallen 10% against the dollar since the summer from a level that was widely regarded as overvalued and may have further to go in the coming months as the economy struggles and the US recovery gathers pace.The interest rate cut will be welcomed by the millions of Chinese homeowners who pay a large proportion of their salary each month on mortgage payments. Rocketing mortgage debt has become a huge problem in China alongside the massive debts racked up by state enterprises and local authorities.Officials at the central bank, aware that many homeowners have reduced spending on other items, will hope lower borrowing costs and the cut in deposit rates will encourage them to boost expenditure in other areas of the economy.China\u2019s slowdown was highlighted by David Cameron as one of his red warning lights signalling the danger of a second financial crash. He said faltering growth in emerging markets was a cause for concern alongside the escalating dispute in Ukraine and the Ebola crisis.Beijing has maintained that GDP growth continues to stay above 7%. Government figures for the third quarter this year estimated growth at 7.3%.However, this was the slowest pace for more than five years and unofficial estimates have put growth at no higher than 5%. While even this rate of expansion is still almost double the UK\u2019s rise in GDP this year, many economists believe China needs to grow by at least 6% a year just to keep pace with population growth.Beijing has already seen its manufacturing output come perilously close to contraction after hitting its lowest level for six months in October. The HSBC flash PMI reading dropped to 50.0, down from the previous month\u2019s 50.4, with a reading above 50 indicating expansion in the sector.The manufacturing data is the latest in a steady stream of weaker-than-expected indicators in recent weeks as trading conditions remain difficult. Credit and investment growth have also slowed.Marc Ostwald, a strategist at broker ADM ISI, warned China\u2019s rate cut could spark a currency war among other emerging nations in the region.\u201cOne can certainly also expect a response from South Korea and others in south-east Asia and a rate cut from India\u2019s central bank also seems likely.\u201dEuropean Central Bank (ECB) boss Mario Draghi also strongly hinted that he plans to drive the euro lower to help eurozone economies become more competitive.Draghi said that if current measures were not enough to spur growth and prevent inflation from settling at uncomfortably low levels, the ECB\u2019s governing council would \u201cbroaden even more the channels through which we intervene, by altering accordingly the size, pace and composition of our purchases\u201d.Nick Kounis, head of financial markets research at ABN Amro, said: \u201cDraghi all but announced that the central bank will step up monetary easing soon. Mr Maybe has become Mr Definitely \u2013 striking an even more dovish tone than at the press conference earlier in the month.\u201dThe ECB has already set out proposals to increase its funding to the financial markets to \u20ac2tn and this plan could entail joining the quantitative easing programme adopted by the Bank of England and US and Japanese central banks.", "tags": ["Global economy", "Economics", "Business", "Stock markets", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "Global shares boosted by China rate cut"},{"date": "2014-11-06T14:29:23Z", "country": "china", "content": "China plans to build a 100-bed medical centre in Liberia to combat Ebola, officials announced on Thursday, after criticism that the country is not doing enough to fight the disease.China will send 1,000 aid workers to Ebola-affected areas \u201cin the months to come\u201d, and has already sent 252 people to the three hardest-hit countries \u2013 Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone \u2013 since the deadly virus broke out in March, the official newswire Xinhua reported  on Wednesday.Foreign ministry spokesman Hong Lei elaborated on the announcement at a regular press conference on Thursday afternoon. \u201cIn Liberia, we will build a 100-bed medical centre,\u201d he said. \u201cOn 9 November, 160 medical workers will set off for Liberia.\u201d He added that 320 additional workers would arrive at the centre at a later date.\u201cAll the construction materials, construction workers and medical workers are in place,\u201d he said. The centre is scheduled to open in 30 days.Hong said: \u201cMany countries have evacuated their diplomatic personnel, aid workers and enterprises from affected areas. However, there are still several thousand Chinese people working there.\u201dHong\u2019s comments partially contradict earlier reports that scores of Chinese workers have fled Ebola-affected countries since the spring. According to the Wall Street Journal, the state-backed China Henan International Cooperation Group pulled most of its workers from an $80m road-building project in Liberia in August. China\u2019s commerce ministry estimated then that 20,000 Chinese people lived in affected countries; since then, the number may have halved.Jim Yong Kim, president of the World Bank, told reporters this week that \u201cmany countries in Asia who could help simply are not [helping], especially when it comes to sending health workers\u201d. He did not mention China by name.Last month Brett Rierson, the World Food Programme\u2019s China representative, urged China to do more to fight the disease. \u201cNo one\u2019s been willing to do anything big yet,\u201d he said.The US secretary of state, John Kerry, said last month that the US and China, despite their many disagreements, hoped to work together to curb the virus. China has sent a total of $122m (\u00a376m) to combat Ebola, according to the China Daily. The US has pledged more than $1bn.\u201cChina and Africa are good brothers who hold hands,\u201d Hong said. \u201cWhen Africa is hit by Ebola, the Chinese government and people feel like they\u2019re suffering, so we offer assistance to the best of our abilities. China is a developing country, but we are doing everything we can.\u201d", "tags": ["Ebola", "China", "Liberia", "Africa", "Hospitals", "Health", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China to build Ebola hospital in Liberia"},{"date": "2014-11-20T18:18:56Z", "country": "china", "content": "Aldi is planning to expand into China, taking the German discounter into its fourth continent.The family owners of the firm are reported to have agreed to the move but no timeframe has been set. Analysts at the Planet Retail consultancy say Aldi is not likely to start operations in east Asia before 2018.The expansion plan was revealed in minutes of meetings between the two arms of the business \u2013 Aldi Nord and Aldi S\u00fcd, which operates in the UK. According to the German business journal, Manager Magazin, Aldi S\u00fcd will take on the China venture. The supermarket group, which is piling pressure on traditional grocers in the UK including Tesco, Morrisons and Sainsbury\u2019s, is scheduled to make its debut in California next year, where it is building a warehouse near Los Angeles.The Chinese market has proved tough for many major western retailers including Tesco and Carrefour. Yujun Qiu, Planet Retail\u2019s China analyst, said: \u201cThe big challenge will be how Chinese consumers will react to Aldi\u2019s private-label ranges. Many are sceptical when it comes to retailers\u2019 own brands and prefer the well-known manufacturer brands instead.\u201d ", "tags": ["Aldi", "China", "Supermarkets", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Retail industry", "Business"], "title": "Aldi plans China move"},{"date": "2014-12-22T15:58:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Chinese anti-corruption authorities have placed Ling Jihua, a top aide to the former president Hu Jintao, under investigation for graft, state media reported.Ling, 58, is under investigation for \u201csuspected serious disciplinary violation\u201d \u2013 almost always shorthand for corruption \u2013 the state newswire Xinhua said in a terse report, without giving further details.Ling, 58, is one of the highest-ranking Communist party officials to be caught up in President Xi Jinping\u2019s anti-corruption drive, the most intense and wide-ranging in China\u2019s recent history.Analysts say the campaign has allowed Xi to consolidate power by undermining rivals while concurrently improving the party\u2019s public image. This month, anti-corruption authorities formally arrested the former security tsar Zhou Yongkang, the country\u2019s highest-ranking official to be prosecuted in more than three decades.In the spring of 2012, months before Xi would replace Hu in a once-in-a-decade leadership transition, Ling\u2019s 23 year-old son Ling Gu crashed a Ferrari while joyriding in Beijing, killing himself and seriously injuring two women. Ling allegedly attempted to engineer a coverup, and fallout from the scandal changed the dynamics of the transition, allowing Xi to replace many of Hu\u2019s top allies with his own.From 2007 until 2012, Ling directed the party\u2019s general office, an administrative body with close ties to China\u2019s top leaders. Analysts believed that Hu was grooming him for advancement to the party\u2019s seven-person politburo standing committee, its highest decision-making body. After the crash, Ling was given a less-vaunted post as head of the United Front Work Department, a government agency that oversees ethnic minority relations, crushing his chances of promotion.Ling was born in a coalmining region of northern China\u2019s Shanxi province, and joined the party when he was 20. He quickly ascended the ranks as Hu\u2019s protege and a member of the Communist Youth League, a prominent party faction.\u201cThe question is not so much why Ling Jihua was in trouble, it\u2019s why it took so long for Ling Jihua to get into trouble,\u201d said Steve Tsang, an expert on Chinese politics at the University of Nottingham. \u201cAnd I think the most likely explanation was that Xi Jinping needed the support of the Communist Youth League and Hu Jintao [to bring down Zhou Yongkang], so basically left Ling Jihua alone. It was a very pragmatic move.\u201dAnti-graft authorities tightened the net around Ling in recent months, placing several of his former associates and two of his brothers under investigation. One of the brothers, Ling Zhengce, was a high-ranking official in Shanxi; the other, Ling Wancheng, was an elite businessman and amateur golfer.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China targets senior official in corruption crackdown"},{"date": "2014-12-22T13:25:10Z", "country": "china", "content": "China is considering tough curbs on tobacco advertising as the world\u2019s top consumer of cigarettes looks to kick the habit, state media reported on Monday.A parliamentary committee of the National People\u2019s Congress (NPC) is weighing up an amendment to China\u2019s advertising law that would protect minors from harmful adverts, including cigarette ads, the Xinhua news agency said.If the amendment is approved, all such ads will be banned except those posted in tobacco shops, Xinhua said, citing an official at the NPC law committee.Ads would be banned in public places, hospitals and schools. They would also be forbidden on public transport facilities, the report said. Outdoor ads and window displays for tobacco products would be forbidden.The amendment comes as the state council, China\u2019s cabinet, is also considering a ban on indoor smoking.But intense lobbying by the powerful state tobacco monopoly has in the past stood in the way of controls. China faces a health crisis, with more than 300 million smokers and hundreds of millions more exposed to second-hand smoke each year.But the government is heavily dependent on tobacco taxes, and last year the tobacco industry contributed more than 816 billion yuan (\u00a384bn) to government coffers.Judith Mackay, a Hong Kong-based senior adviser to the World Lung Foundation, said that that the Chinese government dramatically hardened its stance on tobacco control in spring last year after the Central Party School, an influential research institute in Beijing, published a 240-page tome called Tobacco Control: International Experience and China\u2019s Strategy.Officials understand that they \u201chave a massive problem in terms of economic burden and early death, and it\u2019s only going to get worse\u201d, Mackay said.Since March last year, China\u2019s cabinet, education ministry, health ministry, commerce ministry and the People\u2019s Liberation Army have at least proposed regulations to restrict smoking in schools, hospitals, government offices and the military.Mackay noted that China\u2019s president, Xi Jinping, directed the Central Party School in the years it was developing the report. Since Xi became president in 2012, he has cemented a reputation as the country\u2019s most powerful top leader in decades.\u201cIt\u2019s all just coming together, and I think Xi Jinping has made a big difference in that,\u201d Mackay said.\u201cThis is a sea change of attitudes as well as political will just blowing through the country now. They have seven or eight things in motion at the moment. I\u2019m very optimistic about all of this.\u201d", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Smoking", "Society", "Tobacco industry", "Business"], "title": "China considers curbs on tobacco advertising"},{"date": "2014-12-16T03:37:24Z", "country": "china", "content": "Chinese media coverage of the Lima climate change talks included comments by the country\u2019s top climate negotiator who described the deal reached as \u201cbalanced\u201d. Xie Zhenhua told the state news agency Xinhua that the outcome was \u201cwithin\u201d the Chinese delegation\u2019s expectation. However he said: \u201cwe\u2019re not very satisfied with the outcome, but we think it\u2019s a balanced and nice document\u201d. Xie added that the summit is an important step towards next year\u2019s summit in Paris but that those \u201cnegotiations will be more challenging and require parties to show greater flexibility\u201d.China\u2019s role going into the talks was buoyed by its recent climate deal with the US. In the agreement announced in November, China committed for the first time to cap its output of carbon pollution by 2030 and to increase its use of zero emission energy sources to 20% by 2030.However, while there was much progress on commitments, the issue of historical emissions has once again proven to be a sticking point that China is not willing to let go. \u201cDeveloped countries should honor their commitments and shoulder their responsibilities under the Convention to do more in support of developing countries in terms of mitigation, finance, technology and capability building,\u201d Xie was quoted as saying.A critical opinion piece in the English edition of the state run China Daily newspaper criticised the developed countries\u2019 \u201cdouble standards\u201d and that they have \u201cblurred the difference between responsibilities of the rich and poor nations to fight climate change\u201d.\u201cWhy does the developed world even pretend to help save the planet?\u201d it adds. Li Shuo, climate campaigner with Greenpeace said the issue of common but differentiated responsibilities is \u201cthe most challenging issue\u201d for next year\u2019s climate change summit in Paris. \u201cIt has to be resolved in 2015 to achieve a robust agreement,\u201d Li added. Another difficult negotiating point during the talks was on a method of accounting emission cuts. \u201cThe Lima conference ended up with a weak decision on this issue,\u201d said Li. \u201cLargely as a result of opposition from China and India, there will not be much top down scrutiny that the multilateral process can put on the offers from different countries,\u201d he added. Alvin Lin, the China Climate and Energy Policy Director with the National Resources Defence Council writes that China \u201cis moving in the right direction and should be pro-active in providing the details needed to evaluate its actions, so that other countries can have confidence in China\u2019s actions and in turn step up their own efforts to reduce the threat of global climate change\u201d. ", "tags": ["Environment", "China", "World news", "Climate change", "Cop 20: UN climate change conference | Lima", "Asia Pacific", "Global climate talks"], "title": "China climate negotiator says Lima deal \u2018balanced\u2019"},{"date": "2014-12-10T09:22:20Z", "country": "china", "content": "It\u2019s difficult to fit all that has happened over the past two years into 700 words. Exporting to China has been an interesting and rewarding journey, both personally and for the business. Trioni has been through rapid expansion since we started trading internationally in 2012, yet China was never an official part of our strategy; instead it was just a hunch that led the team to take advantage of the opportunity when it arose.In 2011, we exhibited Trioni (a range of organic dairy products) at the Anuga Food Fair in Cologne and met a distributor from China who was interested in our offering. Initial discussions showed us just how highly the Chinese regard British products \u2013 particularly milk. They see it as a health drink, recognising the quality and integrity with which we export our home-grown produce. Couple this with the far-reaching impact of the 2008 and 2010 China milk scandals, and it\u2019s not hard to understand why British products might be highly favoured.In fact, it was from the knock-on effect of these scandals that Chinese Organic Certification came about. Encompassing a selection of rules imposed by the Chinese government, everything from our factories to our packaging and labelling had to be assessed and deemed safe for import. It was a daunting process, with a number of obstacles to overcome, particularly with regard to paperwork. In fact it isn\u2019t something we could have even thought about achieving without the support of the Welsh government, FDEA and UKTI, all of which helped us in equal measure.Family support was also of enormous help. My son Ben lives in Hong Kong and works for an investment company there. His advice on doing business with China was invaluable. Face-to-face meetings are an absolute necessity, as it makes it easier to negotiate with a translator in the room with you, as opposed to over email or the phone. And, of course, travelling for business meetings never felt like a chore when it meant I was getting to see my son as well.Travelling is always a learning curve, whether for business or pleasure and we definitely learned a lot in our first few months exporting to China. There were many challenges including the paperwork, how best to build relationships in a foreign country, and China\u2019s strict regulations for market entry.We made our second shipment to China after the new laws came into play. Although these were needed, they meant additional testing and re-testing of our product before being allowed entry.If you\u2019re considering exporting, I\u2019d always suggest getting out there yourself and personally checking out the market. Look into the country and competitors already established there. Be aware of potential import tariffs and the price competitors are charging so you can position your product accordingly. I went on a trade mission with the UKTI to China, which was invaluable in getting under the skin of the country.Although visiting the country is a necessity, there are many things you can do with your feet firmly on British soil \u2013 sourcing funding is one of them. The UKTI and FDEA were, again, incredibly supportive in this and helped to point me in the right direction.I\u2019ve thoroughly enjoyed the experience of exporting and I am definitely looking to expand our presence further. Some things, however, will be trial and error. No matter what your previous international experience, until that first batch of product lands on foreign shores you can never fully predict what you\u2019ll come up against. It\u2019s an exciting time ahead for any business and although I feel slightly more confident and relaxed about the thought of expanding further, there will always be challenges to confront. But that\u2019s part of the fun when you achieve it.Laurence Harris is the founder of Trioni Ltd.Exporting to China: a guide for small businessesCultural complexity: the etiquette of doing business abroadSign up to become a member of the Guardian Small Business Network here for more advice, insight and best practice direct to your inbox.", "tags": ["Exporting to new markets", "Guardian Small Business Network", "Small business", "Business", "Milk"], "title": "How I began exporting milk to China"},{"date": "2014-11-21T17:20:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "World stock markets soared on Friday as China\u2019s central bank moved to head off a sharp slowdown in growth with its first cut in interest rates for two years.The People\u2019s Bank of China said it would lower its one-year benchmark lending rate at the weekend by almost half a percentage point to 5.6% and cut its one-year deposit rate amid concerns that the world\u2019s second largest economy is weakening. The FTSE 100 closed 1% higher at 6750.76 on Friday, while the Dow Jones was also higher in early trading.Analysts said one of the main effects of the interest rate cut would be to force down the yuan against the yen and the dollar, helping China to export its way out of trouble. The yuan has already fallen 10% against the dollar since the summer from a level that was widely regarded as overvalued and may have further to go in the coming months as the economy struggles and the US recovery gathers pace.The interest rate cut will be welcomed by the millions of Chinese homeowners who pay a large proportion of their salary each month on mortgage payments. Rocketing mortgage debt has become a huge problem in China alongside the massive debts racked up by state enterprises and local authorities.Officials at the central bank, aware that many homeowners have reduced spending on other items, will hope lower borrowing costs and the cut in deposit rates will encourage them to boost expenditure in other areas of the economy.China\u2019s slowdown was highlighted by David Cameron as one of his red warning lights signalling the danger of a second financial crash. He said faltering growth in emerging markets was a cause for concern alongside the escalating dispute in Ukraine and the Ebola crisis.Beijing has maintained that GDP growth continues to stay above 7%. Government figures for the third quarter this year estimated growth at 7.3%.However, this was the slowest pace for more than five years and unofficial estimates have put growth at no higher than 5%. While even this rate of expansion is still almost double the UK\u2019s rise in GDP this year, many economists believe China needs to grow by at least 6% a year just to keep pace with population growth.Beijing has already seen its manufacturing output come perilously close to contraction after hitting its lowest level for six months in October. The HSBC flash PMI reading dropped to 50.0, down from the previous month\u2019s 50.4, with a reading above 50 indicating expansion in the sector.The manufacturing data is the latest in a steady stream of weaker-than-expected indicators in recent weeks as trading conditions remain difficult. Credit and investment growth have also slowed.Marc Ostwald, a strategist at broker ADM ISI, warned China\u2019s rate cut could spark a currency war among other emerging nations in the region.\u201cOne can certainly also expect a response from South Korea and others in south-east Asia and a rate cut from India\u2019s central bank also seems likely.\u201dEuropean Central Bank (ECB) boss Mario Draghi also strongly hinted that he plans to drive the euro lower to help eurozone economies become more competitive.Draghi said that if current measures were not enough to spur growth and prevent inflation from settling at uncomfortably low levels, the ECB\u2019s governing council would \u201cbroaden even more the channels through which we intervene, by altering accordingly the size, pace and composition of our purchases\u201d.Nick Kounis, head of financial markets research at ABN Amro, said: \u201cDraghi all but announced that the central bank will step up monetary easing soon. Mr Maybe has become Mr Definitely \u2013 striking an even more dovish tone than at the press conference earlier in the month.\u201dThe ECB has already set out proposals to increase its funding to the financial markets to \u20ac2tn and this plan could entail joining the quantitative easing programme adopted by the Bank of England and US and Japanese central banks.", "tags": ["Global economy", "Economics", "Business", "Stock markets", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "Global shares boosted by China rate cut"},{"date": "2014-11-06T14:29:23Z", "country": "china", "content": "China plans to build a 100-bed medical centre in Liberia to combat Ebola, officials announced on Thursday, after criticism that the country is not doing enough to fight the disease.China will send 1,000 aid workers to Ebola-affected areas \u201cin the months to come\u201d, and has already sent 252 people to the three hardest-hit countries \u2013 Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone \u2013 since the deadly virus broke out in March, the official newswire Xinhua reported  on Wednesday.Foreign ministry spokesman Hong Lei elaborated on the announcement at a regular press conference on Thursday afternoon. \u201cIn Liberia, we will build a 100-bed medical centre,\u201d he said. \u201cOn 9 November, 160 medical workers will set off for Liberia.\u201d He added that 320 additional workers would arrive at the centre at a later date.\u201cAll the construction materials, construction workers and medical workers are in place,\u201d he said. The centre is scheduled to open in 30 days.Hong said: \u201cMany countries have evacuated their diplomatic personnel, aid workers and enterprises from affected areas. However, there are still several thousand Chinese people working there.\u201dHong\u2019s comments partially contradict earlier reports that scores of Chinese workers have fled Ebola-affected countries since the spring. According to the Wall Street Journal, the state-backed China Henan International Cooperation Group pulled most of its workers from an $80m road-building project in Liberia in August. China\u2019s commerce ministry estimated then that 20,000 Chinese people lived in affected countries; since then, the number may have halved.Jim Yong Kim, president of the World Bank, told reporters this week that \u201cmany countries in Asia who could help simply are not [helping], especially when it comes to sending health workers\u201d. He did not mention China by name.Last month Brett Rierson, the World Food Programme\u2019s China representative, urged China to do more to fight the disease. \u201cNo one\u2019s been willing to do anything big yet,\u201d he said.The US secretary of state, John Kerry, said last month that the US and China, despite their many disagreements, hoped to work together to curb the virus. China has sent a total of $122m (\u00a376m) to combat Ebola, according to the China Daily. The US has pledged more than $1bn.\u201cChina and Africa are good brothers who hold hands,\u201d Hong said. \u201cWhen Africa is hit by Ebola, the Chinese government and people feel like they\u2019re suffering, so we offer assistance to the best of our abilities. China is a developing country, but we are doing everything we can.\u201d", "tags": ["Ebola", "China", "Liberia", "Africa", "Hospitals", "Health", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China to build Ebola hospital in Liberia"},{"date": "2014-10-28T11:18:27Z", "country": "china", "content": "Chinese viewers are to get their own online version of Big Brother, following a deal between the show\u2019s maker and Chinese internet video firm Youku Tudou.The first-ever Chinese version of Endemol\u2019s global reality TV hit will run for 10 weeks early next year, with production on the show due to start imminently.Big Brother China will debut on Youku Tudou, which is publicly listed in New York with a market capitalisation of about $4bn (\u00a32.5bn), claims 500 million active users generating 200bn video views annually.\u201cIn a market that annually generates hundreds of billions of video views, partnering with the number one digital video platform will allow us to bring Big Brother to a young audience and deliver the most immersive, interactive and unique experience to fans across the nation,\u201d said Arjen van Mierlo, chief executive of Endemol\u2019s Asia operations.The show will be a collaboration between Youku Tudou and Endemol China, a new operation that has been established in Beijing.\u201cWe are delighted to be joining forces with Endemol to finally bring this groundbreaking format to China,\u201d said Victor Koo, chairman and chief executive of Youku Tudou. Chinese viewers are also set to get their own version of Educating the East End, following a deal earlier this month to license the hit UK documentary format to Hunan TV.Earlier this month, the BBC unveiled China\u2019s answer to Top Gear with Jeremy Clarkson, James May and Richard Hammond replaced with a double Olympic gold diving champion, the presenter of Chinese Pop Idol and a pop star turned actor.\u2022 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email media@theguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \u201cfor publication\u201d.\u2022 To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian on Twitter and Facebook.", "tags": ["Endemol", "Television industry", "Media business", "Media", "Digital media", "UK news", "China", "World news", "Independent production companies"], "title": "China gets own version of Big Brother"},{"date": "2014-11-20T18:18:56Z", "country": "china", "content": "Aldi is planning to expand into China, taking the German discounter into its fourth continent.The family owners of the firm are reported to have agreed to the move but no timeframe has been set. Analysts at the Planet Retail consultancy say Aldi is not likely to start operations in east Asia before 2018.The expansion plan was revealed in minutes of meetings between the two arms of the business \u2013 Aldi Nord and Aldi S\u00fcd, which operates in the UK. According to the German business journal, Manager Magazin, Aldi S\u00fcd will take on the China venture. The supermarket group, which is piling pressure on traditional grocers in the UK including Tesco, Morrisons and Sainsbury\u2019s, is scheduled to make its debut in California next year, where it is building a warehouse near Los Angeles.The Chinese market has proved tough for many major western retailers including Tesco and Carrefour. Yujun Qiu, Planet Retail\u2019s China analyst, said: \u201cThe big challenge will be how Chinese consumers will react to Aldi\u2019s private-label ranges. Many are sceptical when it comes to retailers\u2019 own brands and prefer the well-known manufacturer brands instead.\u201d ", "tags": ["Aldi", "China", "Supermarkets", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Retail industry", "Business"], "title": "Aldi plans China move"},{"date": "2014-12-22T15:58:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Chinese anti-corruption authorities have placed Ling Jihua, a top aide to the former president Hu Jintao, under investigation for graft, state media reported.Ling, 58, is under investigation for \u201csuspected serious disciplinary violation\u201d \u2013 almost always shorthand for corruption \u2013 the state newswire Xinhua said in a terse report, without giving further details.Ling, 58, is one of the highest-ranking Communist party officials to be caught up in President Xi Jinping\u2019s anti-corruption drive, the most intense and wide-ranging in China\u2019s recent history.Analysts say the campaign has allowed Xi to consolidate power by undermining rivals while concurrently improving the party\u2019s public image. This month, anti-corruption authorities formally arrested the former security tsar Zhou Yongkang, the country\u2019s highest-ranking official to be prosecuted in more than three decades.In the spring of 2012, months before Xi would replace Hu in a once-in-a-decade leadership transition, Ling\u2019s 23 year-old son Ling Gu crashed a Ferrari while joyriding in Beijing, killing himself and seriously injuring two women. Ling allegedly attempted to engineer a coverup, and fallout from the scandal changed the dynamics of the transition, allowing Xi to replace many of Hu\u2019s top allies with his own.From 2007 until 2012, Ling directed the party\u2019s general office, an administrative body with close ties to China\u2019s top leaders. Analysts believed that Hu was grooming him for advancement to the party\u2019s seven-person politburo standing committee, its highest decision-making body. After the crash, Ling was given a less-vaunted post as head of the United Front Work Department, a government agency that oversees ethnic minority relations, crushing his chances of promotion.Ling was born in a coalmining region of northern China\u2019s Shanxi province, and joined the party when he was 20. He quickly ascended the ranks as Hu\u2019s protege and a member of the Communist Youth League, a prominent party faction.\u201cThe question is not so much why Ling Jihua was in trouble, it\u2019s why it took so long for Ling Jihua to get into trouble,\u201d said Steve Tsang, an expert on Chinese politics at the University of Nottingham. \u201cAnd I think the most likely explanation was that Xi Jinping needed the support of the Communist Youth League and Hu Jintao [to bring down Zhou Yongkang], so basically left Ling Jihua alone. It was a very pragmatic move.\u201dAnti-graft authorities tightened the net around Ling in recent months, placing several of his former associates and two of his brothers under investigation. One of the brothers, Ling Zhengce, was a high-ranking official in Shanxi; the other, Ling Wancheng, was an elite businessman and amateur golfer.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China targets senior official in corruption crackdown"},{"date": "2014-12-22T13:25:10Z", "country": "china", "content": "China is considering tough curbs on tobacco advertising as the world\u2019s top consumer of cigarettes looks to kick the habit, state media reported on Monday.A parliamentary committee of the National People\u2019s Congress (NPC) is weighing up an amendment to China\u2019s advertising law that would protect minors from harmful adverts, including cigarette ads, the Xinhua news agency said.If the amendment is approved, all such ads will be banned except those posted in tobacco shops, Xinhua said, citing an official at the NPC law committee.Ads would be banned in public places, hospitals and schools. They would also be forbidden on public transport facilities, the report said. Outdoor ads and window displays for tobacco products would be forbidden.The amendment comes as the state council, China\u2019s cabinet, is also considering a ban on indoor smoking.But intense lobbying by the powerful state tobacco monopoly has in the past stood in the way of controls. China faces a health crisis, with more than 300 million smokers and hundreds of millions more exposed to second-hand smoke each year.But the government is heavily dependent on tobacco taxes, and last year the tobacco industry contributed more than 816 billion yuan (\u00a384bn) to government coffers.Judith Mackay, a Hong Kong-based senior adviser to the World Lung Foundation, said that that the Chinese government dramatically hardened its stance on tobacco control in spring last year after the Central Party School, an influential research institute in Beijing, published a 240-page tome called Tobacco Control: International Experience and China\u2019s Strategy.Officials understand that they \u201chave a massive problem in terms of economic burden and early death, and it\u2019s only going to get worse\u201d, Mackay said.Since March last year, China\u2019s cabinet, education ministry, health ministry, commerce ministry and the People\u2019s Liberation Army have at least proposed regulations to restrict smoking in schools, hospitals, government offices and the military.Mackay noted that China\u2019s president, Xi Jinping, directed the Central Party School in the years it was developing the report. Since Xi became president in 2012, he has cemented a reputation as the country\u2019s most powerful top leader in decades.\u201cIt\u2019s all just coming together, and I think Xi Jinping has made a big difference in that,\u201d Mackay said.\u201cThis is a sea change of attitudes as well as political will just blowing through the country now. They have seven or eight things in motion at the moment. I\u2019m very optimistic about all of this.\u201d", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Smoking", "Society", "Tobacco industry", "Business"], "title": "China considers curbs on tobacco advertising"},{"date": "2014-12-16T03:37:24Z", "country": "china", "content": "Chinese media coverage of the Lima climate change talks included comments by the country\u2019s top climate negotiator who described the deal reached as \u201cbalanced\u201d. Xie Zhenhua told the state news agency Xinhua that the outcome was \u201cwithin\u201d the Chinese delegation\u2019s expectation. However he said: \u201cwe\u2019re not very satisfied with the outcome, but we think it\u2019s a balanced and nice document\u201d. Xie added that the summit is an important step towards next year\u2019s summit in Paris but that those \u201cnegotiations will be more challenging and require parties to show greater flexibility\u201d.China\u2019s role going into the talks was buoyed by its recent climate deal with the US. In the agreement announced in November, China committed for the first time to cap its output of carbon pollution by 2030 and to increase its use of zero emission energy sources to 20% by 2030.However, while there was much progress on commitments, the issue of historical emissions has once again proven to be a sticking point that China is not willing to let go. \u201cDeveloped countries should honor their commitments and shoulder their responsibilities under the Convention to do more in support of developing countries in terms of mitigation, finance, technology and capability building,\u201d Xie was quoted as saying.A critical opinion piece in the English edition of the state run China Daily newspaper criticised the developed countries\u2019 \u201cdouble standards\u201d and that they have \u201cblurred the difference between responsibilities of the rich and poor nations to fight climate change\u201d.\u201cWhy does the developed world even pretend to help save the planet?\u201d it adds. Li Shuo, climate campaigner with Greenpeace said the issue of common but differentiated responsibilities is \u201cthe most challenging issue\u201d for next year\u2019s climate change summit in Paris. \u201cIt has to be resolved in 2015 to achieve a robust agreement,\u201d Li added. Another difficult negotiating point during the talks was on a method of accounting emission cuts. \u201cThe Lima conference ended up with a weak decision on this issue,\u201d said Li. \u201cLargely as a result of opposition from China and India, there will not be much top down scrutiny that the multilateral process can put on the offers from different countries,\u201d he added. Alvin Lin, the China Climate and Energy Policy Director with the National Resources Defence Council writes that China \u201cis moving in the right direction and should be pro-active in providing the details needed to evaluate its actions, so that other countries can have confidence in China\u2019s actions and in turn step up their own efforts to reduce the threat of global climate change\u201d. ", "tags": ["Environment", "China", "World news", "Climate change", "Cop 20: UN climate change conference | Lima", "Asia Pacific", "Global climate talks"], "title": "China climate negotiator says Lima deal \u2018balanced\u2019"},{"date": "2014-12-10T09:22:20Z", "country": "china", "content": "It\u2019s difficult to fit all that has happened over the past two years into 700 words. Exporting to China has been an interesting and rewarding journey, both personally and for the business. Trioni has been through rapid expansion since we started trading internationally in 2012, yet China was never an official part of our strategy; instead it was just a hunch that led the team to take advantage of the opportunity when it arose.In 2011, we exhibited Trioni (a range of organic dairy products) at the Anuga Food Fair in Cologne and met a distributor from China who was interested in our offering. Initial discussions showed us just how highly the Chinese regard British products \u2013 particularly milk. They see it as a health drink, recognising the quality and integrity with which we export our home-grown produce. Couple this with the far-reaching impact of the 2008 and 2010 China milk scandals, and it\u2019s not hard to understand why British products might be highly favoured.In fact, it was from the knock-on effect of these scandals that Chinese Organic Certification came about. Encompassing a selection of rules imposed by the Chinese government, everything from our factories to our packaging and labelling had to be assessed and deemed safe for import. It was a daunting process, with a number of obstacles to overcome, particularly with regard to paperwork. In fact it isn\u2019t something we could have even thought about achieving without the support of the Welsh government, FDEA and UKTI, all of which helped us in equal measure.Family support was also of enormous help. My son Ben lives in Hong Kong and works for an investment company there. His advice on doing business with China was invaluable. Face-to-face meetings are an absolute necessity, as it makes it easier to negotiate with a translator in the room with you, as opposed to over email or the phone. And, of course, travelling for business meetings never felt like a chore when it meant I was getting to see my son as well.Travelling is always a learning curve, whether for business or pleasure and we definitely learned a lot in our first few months exporting to China. There were many challenges including the paperwork, how best to build relationships in a foreign country, and China\u2019s strict regulations for market entry.We made our second shipment to China after the new laws came into play. Although these were needed, they meant additional testing and re-testing of our product before being allowed entry.If you\u2019re considering exporting, I\u2019d always suggest getting out there yourself and personally checking out the market. Look into the country and competitors already established there. Be aware of potential import tariffs and the price competitors are charging so you can position your product accordingly. I went on a trade mission with the UKTI to China, which was invaluable in getting under the skin of the country.Although visiting the country is a necessity, there are many things you can do with your feet firmly on British soil \u2013 sourcing funding is one of them. The UKTI and FDEA were, again, incredibly supportive in this and helped to point me in the right direction.I\u2019ve thoroughly enjoyed the experience of exporting and I am definitely looking to expand our presence further. Some things, however, will be trial and error. No matter what your previous international experience, until that first batch of product lands on foreign shores you can never fully predict what you\u2019ll come up against. It\u2019s an exciting time ahead for any business and although I feel slightly more confident and relaxed about the thought of expanding further, there will always be challenges to confront. But that\u2019s part of the fun when you achieve it.Laurence Harris is the founder of Trioni Ltd.Exporting to China: a guide for small businessesCultural complexity: the etiquette of doing business abroadSign up to become a member of the Guardian Small Business Network here for more advice, insight and best practice direct to your inbox.", "tags": ["Exporting to new markets", "Guardian Small Business Network", "Small business", "Business", "Milk"], "title": "How I began exporting milk to China"},{"date": "2014-11-21T17:20:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "World stock markets soared on Friday as China\u2019s central bank moved to head off a sharp slowdown in growth with its first cut in interest rates for two years.The People\u2019s Bank of China said it would lower its one-year benchmark lending rate at the weekend by almost half a percentage point to 5.6% and cut its one-year deposit rate amid concerns that the world\u2019s second largest economy is weakening. The FTSE 100 closed 1% higher at 6750.76 on Friday, while the Dow Jones was also higher in early trading.Analysts said one of the main effects of the interest rate cut would be to force down the yuan against the yen and the dollar, helping China to export its way out of trouble. The yuan has already fallen 10% against the dollar since the summer from a level that was widely regarded as overvalued and may have further to go in the coming months as the economy struggles and the US recovery gathers pace.The interest rate cut will be welcomed by the millions of Chinese homeowners who pay a large proportion of their salary each month on mortgage payments. Rocketing mortgage debt has become a huge problem in China alongside the massive debts racked up by state enterprises and local authorities.Officials at the central bank, aware that many homeowners have reduced spending on other items, will hope lower borrowing costs and the cut in deposit rates will encourage them to boost expenditure in other areas of the economy.China\u2019s slowdown was highlighted by David Cameron as one of his red warning lights signalling the danger of a second financial crash. He said faltering growth in emerging markets was a cause for concern alongside the escalating dispute in Ukraine and the Ebola crisis.Beijing has maintained that GDP growth continues to stay above 7%. Government figures for the third quarter this year estimated growth at 7.3%.However, this was the slowest pace for more than five years and unofficial estimates have put growth at no higher than 5%. While even this rate of expansion is still almost double the UK\u2019s rise in GDP this year, many economists believe China needs to grow by at least 6% a year just to keep pace with population growth.Beijing has already seen its manufacturing output come perilously close to contraction after hitting its lowest level for six months in October. The HSBC flash PMI reading dropped to 50.0, down from the previous month\u2019s 50.4, with a reading above 50 indicating expansion in the sector.The manufacturing data is the latest in a steady stream of weaker-than-expected indicators in recent weeks as trading conditions remain difficult. Credit and investment growth have also slowed.Marc Ostwald, a strategist at broker ADM ISI, warned China\u2019s rate cut could spark a currency war among other emerging nations in the region.\u201cOne can certainly also expect a response from South Korea and others in south-east Asia and a rate cut from India\u2019s central bank also seems likely.\u201dEuropean Central Bank (ECB) boss Mario Draghi also strongly hinted that he plans to drive the euro lower to help eurozone economies become more competitive.Draghi said that if current measures were not enough to spur growth and prevent inflation from settling at uncomfortably low levels, the ECB\u2019s governing council would \u201cbroaden even more the channels through which we intervene, by altering accordingly the size, pace and composition of our purchases\u201d.Nick Kounis, head of financial markets research at ABN Amro, said: \u201cDraghi all but announced that the central bank will step up monetary easing soon. Mr Maybe has become Mr Definitely \u2013 striking an even more dovish tone than at the press conference earlier in the month.\u201dThe ECB has already set out proposals to increase its funding to the financial markets to \u20ac2tn and this plan could entail joining the quantitative easing programme adopted by the Bank of England and US and Japanese central banks.", "tags": ["Global economy", "Economics", "Business", "Stock markets", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "Global shares boosted by China rate cut"},{"date": "2014-11-06T14:29:23Z", "country": "china", "content": "China plans to build a 100-bed medical centre in Liberia to combat Ebola, officials announced on Thursday, after criticism that the country is not doing enough to fight the disease.China will send 1,000 aid workers to Ebola-affected areas \u201cin the months to come\u201d, and has already sent 252 people to the three hardest-hit countries \u2013 Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone \u2013 since the deadly virus broke out in March, the official newswire Xinhua reported  on Wednesday.Foreign ministry spokesman Hong Lei elaborated on the announcement at a regular press conference on Thursday afternoon. \u201cIn Liberia, we will build a 100-bed medical centre,\u201d he said. \u201cOn 9 November, 160 medical workers will set off for Liberia.\u201d He added that 320 additional workers would arrive at the centre at a later date.\u201cAll the construction materials, construction workers and medical workers are in place,\u201d he said. The centre is scheduled to open in 30 days.Hong said: \u201cMany countries have evacuated their diplomatic personnel, aid workers and enterprises from affected areas. However, there are still several thousand Chinese people working there.\u201dHong\u2019s comments partially contradict earlier reports that scores of Chinese workers have fled Ebola-affected countries since the spring. According to the Wall Street Journal, the state-backed China Henan International Cooperation Group pulled most of its workers from an $80m road-building project in Liberia in August. China\u2019s commerce ministry estimated then that 20,000 Chinese people lived in affected countries; since then, the number may have halved.Jim Yong Kim, president of the World Bank, told reporters this week that \u201cmany countries in Asia who could help simply are not [helping], especially when it comes to sending health workers\u201d. He did not mention China by name.Last month Brett Rierson, the World Food Programme\u2019s China representative, urged China to do more to fight the disease. \u201cNo one\u2019s been willing to do anything big yet,\u201d he said.The US secretary of state, John Kerry, said last month that the US and China, despite their many disagreements, hoped to work together to curb the virus. China has sent a total of $122m (\u00a376m) to combat Ebola, according to the China Daily. The US has pledged more than $1bn.\u201cChina and Africa are good brothers who hold hands,\u201d Hong said. \u201cWhen Africa is hit by Ebola, the Chinese government and people feel like they\u2019re suffering, so we offer assistance to the best of our abilities. China is a developing country, but we are doing everything we can.\u201d", "tags": ["Ebola", "China", "Liberia", "Africa", "Hospitals", "Health", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China to build Ebola hospital in Liberia"},{"date": "2014-10-28T11:18:27Z", "country": "china", "content": "Chinese viewers are to get their own online version of Big Brother, following a deal between the show\u2019s maker and Chinese internet video firm Youku Tudou.The first-ever Chinese version of Endemol\u2019s global reality TV hit will run for 10 weeks early next year, with production on the show due to start imminently.Big Brother China will debut on Youku Tudou, which is publicly listed in New York with a market capitalisation of about $4bn (\u00a32.5bn), claims 500 million active users generating 200bn video views annually.\u201cIn a market that annually generates hundreds of billions of video views, partnering with the number one digital video platform will allow us to bring Big Brother to a young audience and deliver the most immersive, interactive and unique experience to fans across the nation,\u201d said Arjen van Mierlo, chief executive of Endemol\u2019s Asia operations.The show will be a collaboration between Youku Tudou and Endemol China, a new operation that has been established in Beijing.\u201cWe are delighted to be joining forces with Endemol to finally bring this groundbreaking format to China,\u201d said Victor Koo, chairman and chief executive of Youku Tudou. Chinese viewers are also set to get their own version of Educating the East End, following a deal earlier this month to license the hit UK documentary format to Hunan TV.Earlier this month, the BBC unveiled China\u2019s answer to Top Gear with Jeremy Clarkson, James May and Richard Hammond replaced with a double Olympic gold diving champion, the presenter of Chinese Pop Idol and a pop star turned actor.\u2022 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email media@theguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \u201cfor publication\u201d.\u2022 To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian on Twitter and Facebook.", "tags": ["Endemol", "Television industry", "Media business", "Media", "Digital media", "UK news", "China", "World news", "Independent production companies"], "title": "China gets own version of Big Brother"},{"date": "2014-12-23T15:39:37Z", "country": "china", "content": "China is to send 700 combat troops to South Sudan in what analysts describe as a significant shift from its stated policy of non-interference in African conflicts.The first Chinese infantry battalion to take part in a UN peacekeeping mission will be equipped with drones, armoured carriers, antitank missiles, mortars and other weapons, \u201ccompletely for self-defence purpose\u201d, state media reported.China is Africa\u2019s biggest trade partner but has taken an arm\u2019s length approach to the continent\u2019s myriad of political and military disputes. But it has been unusually proactive in diplomatic efforts to pacify South Sudan, where it has invested heavily but where civil war has slashed oil production by a third.Richard Poplak, an author and journalist studying Beijing\u2019s influence on the continent, said: \u201cThis does seem to announce a new era in the way China is engaging with Africa. It runs contrary to China\u2019s foreign policy of, \u2018We don\u2019t interfere\u2019. It\u2019s an enormous renunciation of that.\u201dPoplak, who has visited 18 African countries including South Sudan for a forthcoming book, added: \u201cIt comes down to interest. The Chinese have poured billions and billions into South Sudan, so many resources that it\u2019s almost baffling. This is a shift in realpolitik: you can\u2019t just talk all the time and not carry a big stick. The Chinese have realised that.\u201dChina is the biggest contributor of peacekeepers among the five permanent members of the UN security council and currently has more than 2,000 posted around the world. But nearly all are engineers, medical and transport workers and security guards.Poplak said it has previously sent small contingents of elite troops to Mali and South Sudan to guard its personnel but that the new infantry battalion would be of a different order.However, China would still have far less military presence in Africa than other major powers, at least for the time being, he said. \u201cI don\u2019t think they will be anything as visible or machinelike as France or America but they\u2019ve realised that as well as white hats they need blue hats.\u201cIt\u2019s not possible for anyone here or anyone in Beijing to say where this ends. It\u2019s a precedent and any precedent is a dangerous precedent.\u201dA rally for the departing Chinese battalion was held on Monday in the city of Laiyang, Shandong province, according to the official Xinhua news agency. An initial contingent of 180 soldiers will fly to South Sudan next month, with the rest of the battalion following in March.\u201cThe 700-strong infantry battalion included 121 officers and 579 soldiers. Forty-three members have participated in peacekeeping missions before. An infantry squad composed of 13 female soldiers will participate in a peacekeeping mission for the first time,\u201d Xinhua reported.The UN has more than 11,000 peacekeepers in South Sudan, which became independent from Sudan in 2011. Oil accounts for more than 90% of the new country\u2019s foreign revenues.Fighting broke out in December last year when President Salva Kiir accused his sacked deputy Riek Machar of attempting a coup. The fighting in the capital, Juba, set off a cycle of retaliatory massacres across large swaths of South Sudan, claiming thousands of lives and pushing the country to the brink of famine. Oil-producing regions have endured some of the worst violence.The state-owned China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC) said last Sunday it had signed a deal with the government in Juba to increase production. The CNPC said it would use heavy oil recovery technologies in \u201cstabilising and increasing crude output\u201d.On Monday, Ethiopia\u2019s prime minister, Hailemariam Desalegn, said South Sudan\u2019s leaders could face punitive sanctions from their neighbours as a \u201clast resort\u201d if peace talks fail to end the war. Negotiations in Addis Ababa have led to several ceasefire deals but each has been violated within hours.A 2011 report by the NGO Saferworld found that, despite its stated neutrality, China is gradually using diplomatic means to push for the resolution of certain conflicts. It also said the Asian power is becoming a major supplier of conventional arms to African states and has increased its contributions to UN peacekeeping missions twentyfold since 2000, with the majority based in Africa.", "tags": ["South Sudan", "China", "Oil", "Business", "United Nations"], "title": "China to send 700 combat troops to South Sudan"},{"date": "2014-11-20T18:18:56Z", "country": "china", "content": "Aldi is planning to expand into China, taking the German discounter into its fourth continent.The family owners of the firm are reported to have agreed to the move but no timeframe has been set. Analysts at the Planet Retail consultancy say Aldi is not likely to start operations in east Asia before 2018.The expansion plan was revealed in minutes of meetings between the two arms of the business \u2013 Aldi Nord and Aldi S\u00fcd, which operates in the UK. According to the German business journal, Manager Magazin, Aldi S\u00fcd will take on the China venture. The supermarket group, which is piling pressure on traditional grocers in the UK including Tesco, Morrisons and Sainsbury\u2019s, is scheduled to make its debut in California next year, where it is building a warehouse near Los Angeles.The Chinese market has proved tough for many major western retailers including Tesco and Carrefour. Yujun Qiu, Planet Retail\u2019s China analyst, said: \u201cThe big challenge will be how Chinese consumers will react to Aldi\u2019s private-label ranges. Many are sceptical when it comes to retailers\u2019 own brands and prefer the well-known manufacturer brands instead.\u201d ", "tags": ["Aldi", "China", "Supermarkets", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Retail industry", "Business"], "title": "Aldi plans China move"},{"date": "2014-12-22T15:58:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Chinese anti-corruption authorities have placed Ling Jihua, a top aide to the former president Hu Jintao, under investigation for graft, state media reported.Ling, 58, is under investigation for \u201csuspected serious disciplinary violation\u201d \u2013 almost always shorthand for corruption \u2013 the state newswire Xinhua said in a terse report, without giving further details.Ling, 58, is one of the highest-ranking Communist party officials to be caught up in President Xi Jinping\u2019s anti-corruption drive, the most intense and wide-ranging in China\u2019s recent history.Analysts say the campaign has allowed Xi to consolidate power by undermining rivals while concurrently improving the party\u2019s public image. This month, anti-corruption authorities formally arrested the former security tsar Zhou Yongkang, the country\u2019s highest-ranking official to be prosecuted in more than three decades.In the spring of 2012, months before Xi would replace Hu in a once-in-a-decade leadership transition, Ling\u2019s 23 year-old son Ling Gu crashed a Ferrari while joyriding in Beijing, killing himself and seriously injuring two women. Ling allegedly attempted to engineer a coverup, and fallout from the scandal changed the dynamics of the transition, allowing Xi to replace many of Hu\u2019s top allies with his own.From 2007 until 2012, Ling directed the party\u2019s general office, an administrative body with close ties to China\u2019s top leaders. Analysts believed that Hu was grooming him for advancement to the party\u2019s seven-person politburo standing committee, its highest decision-making body. After the crash, Ling was given a less-vaunted post as head of the United Front Work Department, a government agency that oversees ethnic minority relations, crushing his chances of promotion.Ling was born in a coalmining region of northern China\u2019s Shanxi province, and joined the party when he was 20. He quickly ascended the ranks as Hu\u2019s protege and a member of the Communist Youth League, a prominent party faction.\u201cThe question is not so much why Ling Jihua was in trouble, it\u2019s why it took so long for Ling Jihua to get into trouble,\u201d said Steve Tsang, an expert on Chinese politics at the University of Nottingham. \u201cAnd I think the most likely explanation was that Xi Jinping needed the support of the Communist Youth League and Hu Jintao [to bring down Zhou Yongkang], so basically left Ling Jihua alone. It was a very pragmatic move.\u201dAnti-graft authorities tightened the net around Ling in recent months, placing several of his former associates and two of his brothers under investigation. One of the brothers, Ling Zhengce, was a high-ranking official in Shanxi; the other, Ling Wancheng, was an elite businessman and amateur golfer.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China targets senior official in corruption crackdown"},{"date": "2014-12-22T13:25:10Z", "country": "china", "content": "China is considering tough curbs on tobacco advertising as the world\u2019s top consumer of cigarettes looks to kick the habit, state media reported on Monday.A parliamentary committee of the National People\u2019s Congress (NPC) is weighing up an amendment to China\u2019s advertising law that would protect minors from harmful adverts, including cigarette ads, the Xinhua news agency said.If the amendment is approved, all such ads will be banned except those posted in tobacco shops, Xinhua said, citing an official at the NPC law committee.Ads would be banned in public places, hospitals and schools. They would also be forbidden on public transport facilities, the report said. Outdoor ads and window displays for tobacco products would be forbidden.The amendment comes as the state council, China\u2019s cabinet, is also considering a ban on indoor smoking.But intense lobbying by the powerful state tobacco monopoly has in the past stood in the way of controls. China faces a health crisis, with more than 300 million smokers and hundreds of millions more exposed to second-hand smoke each year.But the government is heavily dependent on tobacco taxes, and last year the tobacco industry contributed more than 816 billion yuan (\u00a384bn) to government coffers.Judith Mackay, a Hong Kong-based senior adviser to the World Lung Foundation, said that that the Chinese government dramatically hardened its stance on tobacco control in spring last year after the Central Party School, an influential research institute in Beijing, published a 240-page tome called Tobacco Control: International Experience and China\u2019s Strategy.Officials understand that they \u201chave a massive problem in terms of economic burden and early death, and it\u2019s only going to get worse\u201d, Mackay said.Since March last year, China\u2019s cabinet, education ministry, health ministry, commerce ministry and the People\u2019s Liberation Army have at least proposed regulations to restrict smoking in schools, hospitals, government offices and the military.Mackay noted that China\u2019s president, Xi Jinping, directed the Central Party School in the years it was developing the report. Since Xi became president in 2012, he has cemented a reputation as the country\u2019s most powerful top leader in decades.\u201cIt\u2019s all just coming together, and I think Xi Jinping has made a big difference in that,\u201d Mackay said.\u201cThis is a sea change of attitudes as well as political will just blowing through the country now. They have seven or eight things in motion at the moment. I\u2019m very optimistic about all of this.\u201d", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Smoking", "Society", "Tobacco industry", "Business"], "title": "China considers curbs on tobacco advertising"},{"date": "2014-12-16T03:37:24Z", "country": "china", "content": "Chinese media coverage of the Lima climate change talks included comments by the country\u2019s top climate negotiator who described the deal reached as \u201cbalanced\u201d. Xie Zhenhua told the state news agency Xinhua that the outcome was \u201cwithin\u201d the Chinese delegation\u2019s expectation. However he said: \u201cwe\u2019re not very satisfied with the outcome, but we think it\u2019s a balanced and nice document\u201d. Xie added that the summit is an important step towards next year\u2019s summit in Paris but that those \u201cnegotiations will be more challenging and require parties to show greater flexibility\u201d.China\u2019s role going into the talks was buoyed by its recent climate deal with the US. In the agreement announced in November, China committed for the first time to cap its output of carbon pollution by 2030 and to increase its use of zero emission energy sources to 20% by 2030.However, while there was much progress on commitments, the issue of historical emissions has once again proven to be a sticking point that China is not willing to let go. \u201cDeveloped countries should honor their commitments and shoulder their responsibilities under the Convention to do more in support of developing countries in terms of mitigation, finance, technology and capability building,\u201d Xie was quoted as saying.A critical opinion piece in the English edition of the state run China Daily newspaper criticised the developed countries\u2019 \u201cdouble standards\u201d and that they have \u201cblurred the difference between responsibilities of the rich and poor nations to fight climate change\u201d.\u201cWhy does the developed world even pretend to help save the planet?\u201d it adds. Li Shuo, climate campaigner with Greenpeace said the issue of common but differentiated responsibilities is \u201cthe most challenging issue\u201d for next year\u2019s climate change summit in Paris. \u201cIt has to be resolved in 2015 to achieve a robust agreement,\u201d Li added. Another difficult negotiating point during the talks was on a method of accounting emission cuts. \u201cThe Lima conference ended up with a weak decision on this issue,\u201d said Li. \u201cLargely as a result of opposition from China and India, there will not be much top down scrutiny that the multilateral process can put on the offers from different countries,\u201d he added. Alvin Lin, the China Climate and Energy Policy Director with the National Resources Defence Council writes that China \u201cis moving in the right direction and should be pro-active in providing the details needed to evaluate its actions, so that other countries can have confidence in China\u2019s actions and in turn step up their own efforts to reduce the threat of global climate change\u201d. ", "tags": ["Environment", "China", "World news", "Climate change", "Cop 20: UN climate change conference | Lima", "Asia Pacific", "Global climate talks"], "title": "China climate negotiator says Lima deal \u2018balanced\u2019"},{"date": "2014-12-10T09:22:20Z", "country": "china", "content": "It\u2019s difficult to fit all that has happened over the past two years into 700 words. Exporting to China has been an interesting and rewarding journey, both personally and for the business. Trioni has been through rapid expansion since we started trading internationally in 2012, yet China was never an official part of our strategy; instead it was just a hunch that led the team to take advantage of the opportunity when it arose.In 2011, we exhibited Trioni (a range of organic dairy products) at the Anuga Food Fair in Cologne and met a distributor from China who was interested in our offering. Initial discussions showed us just how highly the Chinese regard British products \u2013 particularly milk. They see it as a health drink, recognising the quality and integrity with which we export our home-grown produce. Couple this with the far-reaching impact of the 2008 and 2010 China milk scandals, and it\u2019s not hard to understand why British products might be highly favoured.In fact, it was from the knock-on effect of these scandals that Chinese Organic Certification came about. Encompassing a selection of rules imposed by the Chinese government, everything from our factories to our packaging and labelling had to be assessed and deemed safe for import. It was a daunting process, with a number of obstacles to overcome, particularly with regard to paperwork. In fact it isn\u2019t something we could have even thought about achieving without the support of the Welsh government, FDEA and UKTI, all of which helped us in equal measure.Family support was also of enormous help. My son Ben lives in Hong Kong and works for an investment company there. His advice on doing business with China was invaluable. Face-to-face meetings are an absolute necessity, as it makes it easier to negotiate with a translator in the room with you, as opposed to over email or the phone. And, of course, travelling for business meetings never felt like a chore when it meant I was getting to see my son as well.Travelling is always a learning curve, whether for business or pleasure and we definitely learned a lot in our first few months exporting to China. There were many challenges including the paperwork, how best to build relationships in a foreign country, and China\u2019s strict regulations for market entry.We made our second shipment to China after the new laws came into play. Although these were needed, they meant additional testing and re-testing of our product before being allowed entry.If you\u2019re considering exporting, I\u2019d always suggest getting out there yourself and personally checking out the market. Look into the country and competitors already established there. Be aware of potential import tariffs and the price competitors are charging so you can position your product accordingly. I went on a trade mission with the UKTI to China, which was invaluable in getting under the skin of the country.Although visiting the country is a necessity, there are many things you can do with your feet firmly on British soil \u2013 sourcing funding is one of them. The UKTI and FDEA were, again, incredibly supportive in this and helped to point me in the right direction.I\u2019ve thoroughly enjoyed the experience of exporting and I am definitely looking to expand our presence further. Some things, however, will be trial and error. No matter what your previous international experience, until that first batch of product lands on foreign shores you can never fully predict what you\u2019ll come up against. It\u2019s an exciting time ahead for any business and although I feel slightly more confident and relaxed about the thought of expanding further, there will always be challenges to confront. But that\u2019s part of the fun when you achieve it.Laurence Harris is the founder of Trioni Ltd.Exporting to China: a guide for small businessesCultural complexity: the etiquette of doing business abroadSign up to become a member of the Guardian Small Business Network here for more advice, insight and best practice direct to your inbox.", "tags": ["Exporting to new markets", "Guardian Small Business Network", "Small business", "Business", "Milk"], "title": "How I began exporting milk to China"},{"date": "2014-11-21T17:20:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "World stock markets soared on Friday as China\u2019s central bank moved to head off a sharp slowdown in growth with its first cut in interest rates for two years.The People\u2019s Bank of China said it would lower its one-year benchmark lending rate at the weekend by almost half a percentage point to 5.6% and cut its one-year deposit rate amid concerns that the world\u2019s second largest economy is weakening. The FTSE 100 closed 1% higher at 6750.76 on Friday, while the Dow Jones was also higher in early trading.Analysts said one of the main effects of the interest rate cut would be to force down the yuan against the yen and the dollar, helping China to export its way out of trouble. The yuan has already fallen 10% against the dollar since the summer from a level that was widely regarded as overvalued and may have further to go in the coming months as the economy struggles and the US recovery gathers pace.The interest rate cut will be welcomed by the millions of Chinese homeowners who pay a large proportion of their salary each month on mortgage payments. Rocketing mortgage debt has become a huge problem in China alongside the massive debts racked up by state enterprises and local authorities.Officials at the central bank, aware that many homeowners have reduced spending on other items, will hope lower borrowing costs and the cut in deposit rates will encourage them to boost expenditure in other areas of the economy.China\u2019s slowdown was highlighted by David Cameron as one of his red warning lights signalling the danger of a second financial crash. He said faltering growth in emerging markets was a cause for concern alongside the escalating dispute in Ukraine and the Ebola crisis.Beijing has maintained that GDP growth continues to stay above 7%. Government figures for the third quarter this year estimated growth at 7.3%.However, this was the slowest pace for more than five years and unofficial estimates have put growth at no higher than 5%. While even this rate of expansion is still almost double the UK\u2019s rise in GDP this year, many economists believe China needs to grow by at least 6% a year just to keep pace with population growth.Beijing has already seen its manufacturing output come perilously close to contraction after hitting its lowest level for six months in October. The HSBC flash PMI reading dropped to 50.0, down from the previous month\u2019s 50.4, with a reading above 50 indicating expansion in the sector.The manufacturing data is the latest in a steady stream of weaker-than-expected indicators in recent weeks as trading conditions remain difficult. Credit and investment growth have also slowed.Marc Ostwald, a strategist at broker ADM ISI, warned China\u2019s rate cut could spark a currency war among other emerging nations in the region.\u201cOne can certainly also expect a response from South Korea and others in south-east Asia and a rate cut from India\u2019s central bank also seems likely.\u201dEuropean Central Bank (ECB) boss Mario Draghi also strongly hinted that he plans to drive the euro lower to help eurozone economies become more competitive.Draghi said that if current measures were not enough to spur growth and prevent inflation from settling at uncomfortably low levels, the ECB\u2019s governing council would \u201cbroaden even more the channels through which we intervene, by altering accordingly the size, pace and composition of our purchases\u201d.Nick Kounis, head of financial markets research at ABN Amro, said: \u201cDraghi all but announced that the central bank will step up monetary easing soon. Mr Maybe has become Mr Definitely \u2013 striking an even more dovish tone than at the press conference earlier in the month.\u201dThe ECB has already set out proposals to increase its funding to the financial markets to \u20ac2tn and this plan could entail joining the quantitative easing programme adopted by the Bank of England and US and Japanese central banks.", "tags": ["Global economy", "Economics", "Business", "Stock markets", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "Global shares boosted by China rate cut"},{"date": "2014-11-06T14:29:23Z", "country": "china", "content": "China plans to build a 100-bed medical centre in Liberia to combat Ebola, officials announced on Thursday, after criticism that the country is not doing enough to fight the disease.China will send 1,000 aid workers to Ebola-affected areas \u201cin the months to come\u201d, and has already sent 252 people to the three hardest-hit countries \u2013 Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone \u2013 since the deadly virus broke out in March, the official newswire Xinhua reported  on Wednesday.Foreign ministry spokesman Hong Lei elaborated on the announcement at a regular press conference on Thursday afternoon. \u201cIn Liberia, we will build a 100-bed medical centre,\u201d he said. \u201cOn 9 November, 160 medical workers will set off for Liberia.\u201d He added that 320 additional workers would arrive at the centre at a later date.\u201cAll the construction materials, construction workers and medical workers are in place,\u201d he said. The centre is scheduled to open in 30 days.Hong said: \u201cMany countries have evacuated their diplomatic personnel, aid workers and enterprises from affected areas. However, there are still several thousand Chinese people working there.\u201dHong\u2019s comments partially contradict earlier reports that scores of Chinese workers have fled Ebola-affected countries since the spring. According to the Wall Street Journal, the state-backed China Henan International Cooperation Group pulled most of its workers from an $80m road-building project in Liberia in August. China\u2019s commerce ministry estimated then that 20,000 Chinese people lived in affected countries; since then, the number may have halved.Jim Yong Kim, president of the World Bank, told reporters this week that \u201cmany countries in Asia who could help simply are not [helping], especially when it comes to sending health workers\u201d. He did not mention China by name.Last month Brett Rierson, the World Food Programme\u2019s China representative, urged China to do more to fight the disease. \u201cNo one\u2019s been willing to do anything big yet,\u201d he said.The US secretary of state, John Kerry, said last month that the US and China, despite their many disagreements, hoped to work together to curb the virus. China has sent a total of $122m (\u00a376m) to combat Ebola, according to the China Daily. The US has pledged more than $1bn.\u201cChina and Africa are good brothers who hold hands,\u201d Hong said. \u201cWhen Africa is hit by Ebola, the Chinese government and people feel like they\u2019re suffering, so we offer assistance to the best of our abilities. China is a developing country, but we are doing everything we can.\u201d", "tags": ["Ebola", "China", "Liberia", "Africa", "Hospitals", "Health", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China to build Ebola hospital in Liberia"},{"date": "2014-10-28T11:18:27Z", "country": "china", "content": "Chinese viewers are to get their own online version of Big Brother, following a deal between the show\u2019s maker and Chinese internet video firm Youku Tudou.The first-ever Chinese version of Endemol\u2019s global reality TV hit will run for 10 weeks early next year, with production on the show due to start imminently.Big Brother China will debut on Youku Tudou, which is publicly listed in New York with a market capitalisation of about $4bn (\u00a32.5bn), claims 500 million active users generating 200bn video views annually.\u201cIn a market that annually generates hundreds of billions of video views, partnering with the number one digital video platform will allow us to bring Big Brother to a young audience and deliver the most immersive, interactive and unique experience to fans across the nation,\u201d said Arjen van Mierlo, chief executive of Endemol\u2019s Asia operations.The show will be a collaboration between Youku Tudou and Endemol China, a new operation that has been established in Beijing.\u201cWe are delighted to be joining forces with Endemol to finally bring this groundbreaking format to China,\u201d said Victor Koo, chairman and chief executive of Youku Tudou. Chinese viewers are also set to get their own version of Educating the East End, following a deal earlier this month to license the hit UK documentary format to Hunan TV.Earlier this month, the BBC unveiled China\u2019s answer to Top Gear with Jeremy Clarkson, James May and Richard Hammond replaced with a double Olympic gold diving champion, the presenter of Chinese Pop Idol and a pop star turned actor.\u2022 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email media@theguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \u201cfor publication\u201d.\u2022 To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian on Twitter and Facebook.", "tags": ["Endemol", "Television industry", "Media business", "Media", "Digital media", "UK news", "China", "World news", "Independent production companies"], "title": "China gets own version of Big Brother"},{"date": "2014-12-23T15:39:37Z", "country": "china", "content": "China is to send 700 combat troops to South Sudan in what analysts describe as a significant shift from its stated policy of non-interference in African conflicts.The first Chinese infantry battalion to take part in a UN peacekeeping mission will be equipped with drones, armoured carriers, antitank missiles, mortars and other weapons, \u201ccompletely for self-defence purpose\u201d, state media reported.China is Africa\u2019s biggest trade partner but has taken an arm\u2019s length approach to the continent\u2019s myriad of political and military disputes. But it has been unusually proactive in diplomatic efforts to pacify South Sudan, where it has invested heavily but where civil war has slashed oil production by a third.Richard Poplak, an author and journalist studying Beijing\u2019s influence on the continent, said: \u201cThis does seem to announce a new era in the way China is engaging with Africa. It runs contrary to China\u2019s foreign policy of, \u2018We don\u2019t interfere\u2019. It\u2019s an enormous renunciation of that.\u201dPoplak, who has visited 18 African countries including South Sudan for a forthcoming book, added: \u201cIt comes down to interest. The Chinese have poured billions and billions into South Sudan, so many resources that it\u2019s almost baffling. This is a shift in realpolitik: you can\u2019t just talk all the time and not carry a big stick. The Chinese have realised that.\u201dChina is the biggest contributor of peacekeepers among the five permanent members of the UN security council and currently has more than 2,000 posted around the world. But nearly all are engineers, medical and transport workers and security guards.Poplak said it has previously sent small contingents of elite troops to Mali and South Sudan to guard its personnel but that the new infantry battalion would be of a different order.However, China would still have far less military presence in Africa than other major powers, at least for the time being, he said. \u201cI don\u2019t think they will be anything as visible or machinelike as France or America but they\u2019ve realised that as well as white hats they need blue hats.\u201cIt\u2019s not possible for anyone here or anyone in Beijing to say where this ends. It\u2019s a precedent and any precedent is a dangerous precedent.\u201dA rally for the departing Chinese battalion was held on Monday in the city of Laiyang, Shandong province, according to the official Xinhua news agency. An initial contingent of 180 soldiers will fly to South Sudan next month, with the rest of the battalion following in March.\u201cThe 700-strong infantry battalion included 121 officers and 579 soldiers. Forty-three members have participated in peacekeeping missions before. An infantry squad composed of 13 female soldiers will participate in a peacekeeping mission for the first time,\u201d Xinhua reported.The UN has more than 11,000 peacekeepers in South Sudan, which became independent from Sudan in 2011. Oil accounts for more than 90% of the new country\u2019s foreign revenues.Fighting broke out in December last year when President Salva Kiir accused his sacked deputy Riek Machar of attempting a coup. The fighting in the capital, Juba, set off a cycle of retaliatory massacres across large swaths of South Sudan, claiming thousands of lives and pushing the country to the brink of famine. Oil-producing regions have endured some of the worst violence.The state-owned China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC) said last Sunday it had signed a deal with the government in Juba to increase production. The CNPC said it would use heavy oil recovery technologies in \u201cstabilising and increasing crude output\u201d.On Monday, Ethiopia\u2019s prime minister, Hailemariam Desalegn, said South Sudan\u2019s leaders could face punitive sanctions from their neighbours as a \u201clast resort\u201d if peace talks fail to end the war. Negotiations in Addis Ababa have led to several ceasefire deals but each has been violated within hours.A 2011 report by the NGO Saferworld found that, despite its stated neutrality, China is gradually using diplomatic means to push for the resolution of certain conflicts. It also said the Asian power is becoming a major supplier of conventional arms to African states and has increased its contributions to UN peacekeeping missions twentyfold since 2000, with the majority based in Africa.", "tags": ["South Sudan", "China", "Oil", "Business", "United Nations"], "title": "China to send 700 combat troops to South Sudan"},{"date": "2014-12-19T13:45:34Z", "country": "china", "content": "Scientists are racing to save a critically endangered ape species that lives only in the rainforests of southern China\u2019s Hainan island. With 25 known individuals remaining, a disease outbreak or a strong typhoon could \u201cmassively impact\u201d the species\u2019s chances of survival, the scientists say.Samuel Turvey, a senior research fellow at the Zoological Society of London, said the Hainan gibbon was \u201cdefinitely the world\u2019s rarest ape species, the rarest primate species, and one of the rarest mammal species. They\u2019re kind of clinging on, literally and metaphorically, to patches of forest in the mountains which people haven\u2019t gotten around to cutting down yet.\u201dHe said both the species and its habitat were protected under Chinese law, but \u201cthe population is so low now that simply removing the threat isn\u2019t enough \u2026 If by chance one or two of them die from disease, or a typhoon, their chance of recovery [would be] massively impacted.\u201dTurvey added: \u201cThe Hainan gibbon can become one of the world\u2019s conservation success stories if everyone works together and the right steps are carried out.\u201dHainan is China\u2019s smallest and southernmost province, an island of rainforests, mountains and sandy beaches in the South China Sea. The gibbons \u2013 gangly creatures with small black faces and thick beige fur \u2013 live in the Bawangling national nature reserve, a 26 sq mile swath of rainforest more than 120 miles from the provincial capital, Haikou.The reserve was home to more than 2,000 gibbons in the late 1950s, but poachers and loggers slowly encroached on the area, leaving only 30 or so left by 1980, when the Chinese government declared the park a protected area.Greenpeace China\u2019s forest campaigner Wu Hao said the island \u2013 one of China\u2019s most biodiverse regions \u2013 lost 72,000 hectares of rainforest between 2000 to 2010, mostly to make way for rubber and paper plantations. \u201cThe plantations are still there, which is actually still a big problem for the nature reserve, for the gibbon and for other species,\u201d he said.In March, Turvey helped to organise a meeting attended by more than 100 experts \u2013 government officials, businesspeople, NGO workers \u2013 at an international forum in the Hainan town of Bo\u2019ao.\u201cFirstly, we need to better know what\u2019s happening on the ground in Hainan,\u201d said Turvey. The gibbons often break from their social groups in adulthood, lowering the chances that they\u2019ll reproduce. \u201cWe want to use visual monitoring, bioacoustics, things like that to get a more robust picture of what\u2019s happening to these individuals, why they\u2019re not forming social groups,\u201d he said.Experts are also searching for individual gibbons that might inhabit far-flung patches of forest, where none have been previously observed. \u201cEvery one of those gibbons is worth its weight in gold for conservation,\u201d he said. \u201cThe more gibbons there are left, the greater the chances that we can recover this population.\u201d", "tags": ["Endangered species", "Endangered habitats", "Wildlife", "Conservation", "Animals", "Environment", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "Hainan gibbon \u2018clinging on\u2019 with 25 left in China"},{"date": "2015-03-06T19:34:54Z", "country": "china", "content": "The report on your website (David Attenborough calls on Chinese president to end ivory trade, theguardian.com, 20 February) of the open letter by animal conservationists and MPs accused China of its ivory trade policy and attributed elephant poaching to \u201cChina\u2019s demand\u201d. Such allegations are misleading and contrary to the facts.The Chinese government attaches great importance to protecting elephants, and China has worked closely with the international community to resolutely fight the illegal ivory trade. It has intensified efforts to fight ivory smuggling and dealt with a large number of cases in recent years.\u00a0The illegal ivory trade cannot be stopped by one or two countries alone. It requires the whole world to come on board, taking concrete steps to enhance law-enforcement and monitoring, educate the public and combine prevention and control measures.China shoulders the dual responsibility of protecting elephants as a natural heritage and carrying forward the intangible cultural heritage of ivory carving. Legal ivory processing in China is to preserve traditional ivory carving arts and crafts. The processing scale is limited with the toughest regulatory and monitoring measures applied. To blame elephant poaching solely on China\u2019s legal ivory imports is unfair. It will mislead the global efforts to protect the elephants and will do no good to the cause of elephant protection.Deyu MiaoEmbassy of the People\u2019s Republic of China, London", "tags": ["Illegal wildlife trade", "Endangered species", "China", "David Attenborough", "Wildlife", "Conservation", "Environment", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China has no truck with ivory smuggling"},{"date": "2015-03-06T19:34:54Z", "country": "china", "content": "The report on your website (David Attenborough calls on Chinese president to end ivory trade, theguardian.com, 20 February) of the open letter by animal conservationists and MPs accused China of its ivory trade policy and attributed elephant poaching to \u201cChina\u2019s demand\u201d. Such allegations are misleading and contrary to the facts.The Chinese government attaches great importance to protecting elephants, and China has worked closely with the international community to resolutely fight the illegal ivory trade. It has intensified efforts to fight ivory smuggling and dealt with a large number of cases in recent years.\u00a0The illegal ivory trade cannot be stopped by one or two countries alone. It requires the whole world to come on board, taking concrete steps to enhance law-enforcement and monitoring, educate the public and combine prevention and control measures.China shoulders the dual responsibility of protecting elephants as a natural heritage and carrying forward the intangible cultural heritage of ivory carving. Legal ivory processing in China is to preserve traditional ivory carving arts and crafts. The processing scale is limited with the toughest regulatory and monitoring measures applied. To blame elephant poaching solely on China\u2019s legal ivory imports is unfair. It will mislead the global efforts to protect the elephants and will do no good to the cause of elephant protection.Deyu MiaoEmbassy of the People\u2019s Republic of China, London", "tags": ["Illegal wildlife trade", "Endangered species", "China", "David Attenborough", "Wildlife", "Conservation", "Environment", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China has no truck with ivory smuggling"},{"date": "2015-03-06T08:19:28Z", "country": "china", "content": "A Chinese investor has bought a 5% stake in British holiday group Thomas Cook for \u00a392m as part of a broader expansion into Europe\u2019s tourism sector.Fosun International plans to double its initial investment in the package holiday specialist to 10% \u201cover time\u201d, Thomas Cook said in a statement.Last month, the Chinese conglomerate bought French holiday company Club Med for \u20ac939m (\u00a3679) following a long takeover battle. Thomas Cook and Club Med are expected to work more closely together as a result of the new deal. Thomas Cook shares rose by 13% to 137p in early trading.Peter Fankhauser, chief executive of Thomas Cook, said Fosun\u2019s portfolio of travel investments would allow it to exploit new opportunities for growth abroad. He said: \u201cOur partnership with Fosun is aimed at accelerating our profitable growth strategy by allowing us to further develop ... in our core destination markets, to collaborate with Fosun\u2019s other portfolio businesses particularly in France, and to access the world\u2019s largest and fastest-growing tourism markets with an experienced local partner.\u201dThomas Cook and Fosun will work together to capitalise on the Chinese domestic and international tourism market which is expanding rapidly as the middle classes in the world\u2019s second-largest economy swell. The two companies also plan to jointly develop a hotel portfolio. Wang Qunbin, executive director and president of Fosun, said its stake in Thomas Cook complemented its other recent investments in the travel sector. He added: \u201cThomas Cook\u2019s strong brand heritage and its leading position in the European travel market, together with Fosun\u2019s extensive expertise and resources, will capitalise on the increasing demand for international leisure travel.\u201d", "tags": ["Thomas Cook", "Travel & leisure", "Mergers and acquisitions", "Business", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "Thomas Cook stake sold to China conglomerate"},{"date": "2015-03-06T19:34:54Z", "country": "china", "content": "The report on your website (David Attenborough calls on Chinese president to end ivory trade, theguardian.com, 20 February) of the open letter by animal conservationists and MPs accused China of its ivory trade policy and attributed elephant poaching to \u201cChina\u2019s demand\u201d. Such allegations are misleading and contrary to the facts.The Chinese government attaches great importance to protecting elephants, and China has worked closely with the international community to resolutely fight the illegal ivory trade. It has intensified efforts to fight ivory smuggling and dealt with a large number of cases in recent years.\u00a0The illegal ivory trade cannot be stopped by one or two countries alone. It requires the whole world to come on board, taking concrete steps to enhance law-enforcement and monitoring, educate the public and combine prevention and control measures.China shoulders the dual responsibility of protecting elephants as a natural heritage and carrying forward the intangible cultural heritage of ivory carving. Legal ivory processing in China is to preserve traditional ivory carving arts and crafts. The processing scale is limited with the toughest regulatory and monitoring measures applied. To blame elephant poaching solely on China\u2019s legal ivory imports is unfair. It will mislead the global efforts to protect the elephants and will do no good to the cause of elephant protection.Deyu MiaoEmbassy of the People\u2019s Republic of China, London", "tags": ["Illegal wildlife trade", "Endangered species", "China", "David Attenborough", "Wildlife", "Conservation", "Environment", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China has no truck with ivory smuggling"},{"date": "2015-03-06T08:19:28Z", "country": "china", "content": "A Chinese investor has bought a 5% stake in British holiday group Thomas Cook for \u00a392m as part of a broader expansion into Europe\u2019s tourism sector.Fosun International plans to double its initial investment in the package holiday specialist to 10% \u201cover time\u201d, Thomas Cook said in a statement.Last month, the Chinese conglomerate bought French holiday company Club Med for \u20ac939m (\u00a3679) following a long takeover battle. Thomas Cook and Club Med are expected to work more closely together as a result of the new deal. Thomas Cook shares rose by 13% to 137p in early trading.Peter Fankhauser, chief executive of Thomas Cook, said Fosun\u2019s portfolio of travel investments would allow it to exploit new opportunities for growth abroad. He said: \u201cOur partnership with Fosun is aimed at accelerating our profitable growth strategy by allowing us to further develop ... in our core destination markets, to collaborate with Fosun\u2019s other portfolio businesses particularly in France, and to access the world\u2019s largest and fastest-growing tourism markets with an experienced local partner.\u201dThomas Cook and Fosun will work together to capitalise on the Chinese domestic and international tourism market which is expanding rapidly as the middle classes in the world\u2019s second-largest economy swell. The two companies also plan to jointly develop a hotel portfolio. Wang Qunbin, executive director and president of Fosun, said its stake in Thomas Cook complemented its other recent investments in the travel sector. He added: \u201cThomas Cook\u2019s strong brand heritage and its leading position in the European travel market, together with Fosun\u2019s extensive expertise and resources, will capitalise on the increasing demand for international leisure travel.\u201d", "tags": ["Thomas Cook", "Travel & leisure", "Mergers and acquisitions", "Business", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "Thomas Cook stake sold to China conglomerate"},{"date": "2015-02-06T12:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Deeba and her friend Zanna find themselves in mortal danger when they discover the city of UnLondon. UnLondon is full of walking and flying buses; houses made from all sorts of materials; ghosts and half-ghosts; not to mention the living umbrellas!Deeba and Zanna make all sorts of strange friends in UnLondon before they leave. Deeba and her group of out-of-this-worldly friends join the battle against the Terrible Cloud Smog. Here starts the dangerous and challenging journey through a forest in a house and black windows to retrieve the UnGun.My favourite character is Yoric Cavea (a bird that lives in a cage on the neck of a human body) because he risks his life for Deeba and because I think he is very funny.I would recommend this book to 10+ but if you want a good long book to read you could try it.\u2022 Buy this book at the Guardian Bookshop.Want to tell the world about a book you've read? Join the site and send us your review!", "tags": ["Children and teenagers", "Books", "Culture", "Children's books: 8-12 years", "Children's fantasy books (children's and teens)"], "title": "Un Lun Dun by China Mi\u00e9ville \u2013 review"},{"date": "2015-03-06T19:34:54Z", "country": "china", "content": "The report on your website (David Attenborough calls on Chinese president to end ivory trade, theguardian.com, 20 February) of the open letter by animal conservationists and MPs accused China of its ivory trade policy and attributed elephant poaching to \u201cChina\u2019s demand\u201d. Such allegations are misleading and contrary to the facts.The Chinese government attaches great importance to protecting elephants, and China has worked closely with the international community to resolutely fight the illegal ivory trade. It has intensified efforts to fight ivory smuggling and dealt with a large number of cases in recent years.\u00a0The illegal ivory trade cannot be stopped by one or two countries alone. It requires the whole world to come on board, taking concrete steps to enhance law-enforcement and monitoring, educate the public and combine prevention and control measures.China shoulders the dual responsibility of protecting elephants as a natural heritage and carrying forward the intangible cultural heritage of ivory carving. Legal ivory processing in China is to preserve traditional ivory carving arts and crafts. The processing scale is limited with the toughest regulatory and monitoring measures applied. To blame elephant poaching solely on China\u2019s legal ivory imports is unfair. It will mislead the global efforts to protect the elephants and will do no good to the cause of elephant protection.Deyu MiaoEmbassy of the People\u2019s Republic of China, London", "tags": ["Illegal wildlife trade", "Endangered species", "China", "David Attenborough", "Wildlife", "Conservation", "Environment", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China has no truck with ivory smuggling"},{"date": "2015-03-06T08:19:28Z", "country": "china", "content": "A Chinese investor has bought a 5% stake in British holiday group Thomas Cook for \u00a392m as part of a broader expansion into Europe\u2019s tourism sector.Fosun International plans to double its initial investment in the package holiday specialist to 10% \u201cover time\u201d, Thomas Cook said in a statement.Last month, the Chinese conglomerate bought French holiday company Club Med for \u20ac939m (\u00a3679) following a long takeover battle. Thomas Cook and Club Med are expected to work more closely together as a result of the new deal. Thomas Cook shares rose by 13% to 137p in early trading.Peter Fankhauser, chief executive of Thomas Cook, said Fosun\u2019s portfolio of travel investments would allow it to exploit new opportunities for growth abroad. He said: \u201cOur partnership with Fosun is aimed at accelerating our profitable growth strategy by allowing us to further develop ... in our core destination markets, to collaborate with Fosun\u2019s other portfolio businesses particularly in France, and to access the world\u2019s largest and fastest-growing tourism markets with an experienced local partner.\u201dThomas Cook and Fosun will work together to capitalise on the Chinese domestic and international tourism market which is expanding rapidly as the middle classes in the world\u2019s second-largest economy swell. The two companies also plan to jointly develop a hotel portfolio. Wang Qunbin, executive director and president of Fosun, said its stake in Thomas Cook complemented its other recent investments in the travel sector. He added: \u201cThomas Cook\u2019s strong brand heritage and its leading position in the European travel market, together with Fosun\u2019s extensive expertise and resources, will capitalise on the increasing demand for international leisure travel.\u201d", "tags": ["Thomas Cook", "Travel & leisure", "Mergers and acquisitions", "Business", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "Thomas Cook stake sold to China conglomerate"},{"date": "2015-02-06T12:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Deeba and her friend Zanna find themselves in mortal danger when they discover the city of UnLondon. UnLondon is full of walking and flying buses; houses made from all sorts of materials; ghosts and half-ghosts; not to mention the living umbrellas!Deeba and Zanna make all sorts of strange friends in UnLondon before they leave. Deeba and her group of out-of-this-worldly friends join the battle against the Terrible Cloud Smog. Here starts the dangerous and challenging journey through a forest in a house and black windows to retrieve the UnGun.My favourite character is Yoric Cavea (a bird that lives in a cage on the neck of a human body) because he risks his life for Deeba and because I think he is very funny.I would recommend this book to 10+ but if you want a good long book to read you could try it.\u2022 Buy this book at the Guardian Bookshop.Want to tell the world about a book you've read? Join the site and send us your review!", "tags": ["Children and teenagers", "Books", "Culture", "Children's books: 8-12 years", "Children's fantasy books (children's and teens)"], "title": "Un Lun Dun by China Mi\u00e9ville \u2013 review"},{"date": "2015-01-12T16:50:24Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has adamantly denied the oft-repeated charge that it is building an empire in Africa just as the European powers did in the late 19th century.Beijing is Africa\u2019s biggest trade partner and has frequently been accused of an ethically deaf \u201cresource colonialism\u201d \u2013 extracting the continent\u2019s mineral wealth at knockdown prices to propel its economic growth.But foreign minister Wang Yi, on a five-nation tour of Africa, insisted: \u201cPolitically, we always speak up for African countries and uphold justice. Economically, we help African countries to enhance development to achieve prosperity.\u201cIn China\u2019s exchanges and cooperation with Africa, we want to see mutual benefit and win-win results. I want to make clear one point, that is, China will never follow the track of western colonists and all cooperation with Africa will never come at the expense of the ecology, environment or long-term interests of Africa.\u201dThe comments were made to Chinese Central Television while Wang was in Kenya, where he met President Uhuru Kenyatta on Saturday. Chinese firms are carrying out a $653m (\u00a3430m) expansion of the main airport in the capital, Nairobi.China\u2019s rivalry with the west on the African stage has been much debated, but it is rare for one side to draw comparison so publicly. Last year, at the biggest gathering of African leaders ever held in Washington, US president Barack Obama said pointedly, \u201cWe don\u2019t look to Africa simply for its natural resources,\u201d but declined to mention China by name.Only in a diplomatic cable, published via WikiLeaks in 2010 and not intended for public consumption, did a US official admit: \u201cChina is a very aggressive and pernicious economic competitor with no morals. China is not in Africa for altruistic reasons. China is in Africa for China primarily.\u201dPreviously, Beijing has said its cooperation with African nations ranges across agriculture, health and infrastructure-related projects from schools to stadiums. The $200m headquarters of the Africa Union in Addis Ababa was a present and a \u201csymbol of deepening relations\u201d.China maintains that more than half its foreign aid \u2013 more than $14bn between 2010 and 2012 \u2013 goes to Africa. It says the support comes with no strings attached and that it will never interfere in countries\u2019 domestic affairs. But by default, critics argue, this means it effectively shores up the rule of Angola\u2019s Jos\u00e9 Eduardo dos Santos, Sudan\u2019s Omar al-Bashir and Zimbabwe\u2019s Robert Mugabe, three of Africa\u2019s most tenaciously authoritarian rulers.Last month, however, Beijing announced that it will send 700 combat troops to join the UN peacekeeping mission in South Sudan, signalling an unusually robust intervention. Speaking to reporters in Sudan on Sunday, Wang defended China\u2019s mediation efforts in South Sudan, rejecting the claim that it was acting out of self-interest after investing heavily in oil. \u201cChina\u2019s mediation of South Sudan issues is completely the responsibility and duty of a responsible power, and not because of China\u2019s own interests,\u201d the minister said.Wang\u2019s itinerary spans Kenya, Cameroon, Equatorial Guinea, Sudan and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. ", "tags": ["Trade and development", "Governance", "Global development", "China", "Africa"], "title": "China denies building empire in Africa"},{"date": "2015-03-06T19:34:54Z", "country": "china", "content": "The report on your website (David Attenborough calls on Chinese president to end ivory trade, theguardian.com, 20 February) of the open letter by animal conservationists and MPs accused China of its ivory trade policy and attributed elephant poaching to \u201cChina\u2019s demand\u201d. Such allegations are misleading and contrary to the facts.The Chinese government attaches great importance to protecting elephants, and China has worked closely with the international community to resolutely fight the illegal ivory trade. It has intensified efforts to fight ivory smuggling and dealt with a large number of cases in recent years.\u00a0The illegal ivory trade cannot be stopped by one or two countries alone. It requires the whole world to come on board, taking concrete steps to enhance law-enforcement and monitoring, educate the public and combine prevention and control measures.China shoulders the dual responsibility of protecting elephants as a natural heritage and carrying forward the intangible cultural heritage of ivory carving. Legal ivory processing in China is to preserve traditional ivory carving arts and crafts. The processing scale is limited with the toughest regulatory and monitoring measures applied. To blame elephant poaching solely on China\u2019s legal ivory imports is unfair. It will mislead the global efforts to protect the elephants and will do no good to the cause of elephant protection.Deyu MiaoEmbassy of the People\u2019s Republic of China, London", "tags": ["Illegal wildlife trade", "Endangered species", "China", "David Attenborough", "Wildlife", "Conservation", "Environment", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China has no truck with ivory smuggling"},{"date": "2015-03-06T08:19:28Z", "country": "china", "content": "A Chinese investor has bought a 5% stake in British holiday group Thomas Cook for \u00a392m as part of a broader expansion into Europe\u2019s tourism sector.Fosun International plans to double its initial investment in the package holiday specialist to 10% \u201cover time\u201d, Thomas Cook said in a statement.Last month, the Chinese conglomerate bought French holiday company Club Med for \u20ac939m (\u00a3679) following a long takeover battle. Thomas Cook and Club Med are expected to work more closely together as a result of the new deal. Thomas Cook shares rose by 13% to 137p in early trading.Peter Fankhauser, chief executive of Thomas Cook, said Fosun\u2019s portfolio of travel investments would allow it to exploit new opportunities for growth abroad. He said: \u201cOur partnership with Fosun is aimed at accelerating our profitable growth strategy by allowing us to further develop ... in our core destination markets, to collaborate with Fosun\u2019s other portfolio businesses particularly in France, and to access the world\u2019s largest and fastest-growing tourism markets with an experienced local partner.\u201dThomas Cook and Fosun will work together to capitalise on the Chinese domestic and international tourism market which is expanding rapidly as the middle classes in the world\u2019s second-largest economy swell. The two companies also plan to jointly develop a hotel portfolio. Wang Qunbin, executive director and president of Fosun, said its stake in Thomas Cook complemented its other recent investments in the travel sector. He added: \u201cThomas Cook\u2019s strong brand heritage and its leading position in the European travel market, together with Fosun\u2019s extensive expertise and resources, will capitalise on the increasing demand for international leisure travel.\u201d", "tags": ["Thomas Cook", "Travel & leisure", "Mergers and acquisitions", "Business", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "Thomas Cook stake sold to China conglomerate"},{"date": "2015-02-06T12:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Deeba and her friend Zanna find themselves in mortal danger when they discover the city of UnLondon. UnLondon is full of walking and flying buses; houses made from all sorts of materials; ghosts and half-ghosts; not to mention the living umbrellas!Deeba and Zanna make all sorts of strange friends in UnLondon before they leave. Deeba and her group of out-of-this-worldly friends join the battle against the Terrible Cloud Smog. Here starts the dangerous and challenging journey through a forest in a house and black windows to retrieve the UnGun.My favourite character is Yoric Cavea (a bird that lives in a cage on the neck of a human body) because he risks his life for Deeba and because I think he is very funny.I would recommend this book to 10+ but if you want a good long book to read you could try it.\u2022 Buy this book at the Guardian Bookshop.Want to tell the world about a book you've read? Join the site and send us your review!", "tags": ["Children and teenagers", "Books", "Culture", "Children's books: 8-12 years", "Children's fantasy books (children's and teens)"], "title": "Un Lun Dun by China Mi\u00e9ville \u2013 review"},{"date": "2015-01-12T16:50:24Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has adamantly denied the oft-repeated charge that it is building an empire in Africa just as the European powers did in the late 19th century.Beijing is Africa\u2019s biggest trade partner and has frequently been accused of an ethically deaf \u201cresource colonialism\u201d \u2013 extracting the continent\u2019s mineral wealth at knockdown prices to propel its economic growth.But foreign minister Wang Yi, on a five-nation tour of Africa, insisted: \u201cPolitically, we always speak up for African countries and uphold justice. Economically, we help African countries to enhance development to achieve prosperity.\u201cIn China\u2019s exchanges and cooperation with Africa, we want to see mutual benefit and win-win results. I want to make clear one point, that is, China will never follow the track of western colonists and all cooperation with Africa will never come at the expense of the ecology, environment or long-term interests of Africa.\u201dThe comments were made to Chinese Central Television while Wang was in Kenya, where he met President Uhuru Kenyatta on Saturday. Chinese firms are carrying out a $653m (\u00a3430m) expansion of the main airport in the capital, Nairobi.China\u2019s rivalry with the west on the African stage has been much debated, but it is rare for one side to draw comparison so publicly. Last year, at the biggest gathering of African leaders ever held in Washington, US president Barack Obama said pointedly, \u201cWe don\u2019t look to Africa simply for its natural resources,\u201d but declined to mention China by name.Only in a diplomatic cable, published via WikiLeaks in 2010 and not intended for public consumption, did a US official admit: \u201cChina is a very aggressive and pernicious economic competitor with no morals. China is not in Africa for altruistic reasons. China is in Africa for China primarily.\u201dPreviously, Beijing has said its cooperation with African nations ranges across agriculture, health and infrastructure-related projects from schools to stadiums. The $200m headquarters of the Africa Union in Addis Ababa was a present and a \u201csymbol of deepening relations\u201d.China maintains that more than half its foreign aid \u2013 more than $14bn between 2010 and 2012 \u2013 goes to Africa. It says the support comes with no strings attached and that it will never interfere in countries\u2019 domestic affairs. But by default, critics argue, this means it effectively shores up the rule of Angola\u2019s Jos\u00e9 Eduardo dos Santos, Sudan\u2019s Omar al-Bashir and Zimbabwe\u2019s Robert Mugabe, three of Africa\u2019s most tenaciously authoritarian rulers.Last month, however, Beijing announced that it will send 700 combat troops to join the UN peacekeeping mission in South Sudan, signalling an unusually robust intervention. Speaking to reporters in Sudan on Sunday, Wang defended China\u2019s mediation efforts in South Sudan, rejecting the claim that it was acting out of self-interest after investing heavily in oil. \u201cChina\u2019s mediation of South Sudan issues is completely the responsibility and duty of a responsible power, and not because of China\u2019s own interests,\u201d the minister said.Wang\u2019s itinerary spans Kenya, Cameroon, Equatorial Guinea, Sudan and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. ", "tags": ["Trade and development", "Governance", "Global development", "China", "Africa"], "title": "China denies building empire in Africa"},{"date": "2015-03-30T12:48:37Z", "country": "china", "content": "Rolls-Royce has signed a deal with Air China to supply its Trent 1000 engines for 15 Boeing Dreamliner aircraft.The company said the deal would add around $1bn (\u00a3670m) to its order book, and build on its strong relationship with the airline. The company received a $1.8bn engine order from Air China in 2010 and the airline currently flies 49 Trent 700-powered aircraft. The news lifted Rolls\u2019s share price by nearly 1% to 955p.However, Rolls-Royce\u2019s relationships in the region are not limited to Air China. The 2010 order followed a separate deal with China Eastern Airlines, made during David Cameron\u2019s trade mission. Rolls-Royce states that it has \u201cbeen actively involved in the rapid growth of Chinese civil aviation\u201d and has operations across China. The engineering group supplies an estimated 56% of engines in China, as of 2010.The deal comes after a disappointing year for the group, with a series of profit warnings and a number of job cuts. Last week, it announced 200 redundancies in Scotland as part of a plan to reduce headcount by 2,600 worldwide.The order follows a deal earlier this month to supply Trent 700 worth $300m to Turkish Airlines.\u201cThe second sales deal in a month for Rolls\u2019s Trent engines is a start in the right direction to repairing the investor damage from several profit warnings over the past year,\u201d said Lewis Sturdy, a London Capital Group dealer. ", "tags": ["Rolls-Royce", "China", "Asia Pacific", "Business", "Air transport", "Airline industry", "World news"], "title": "Rolls-Royce signs $1bn engine deal with Air China"},{"date": "2015-03-06T19:34:54Z", "country": "china", "content": "The report on your website (David Attenborough calls on Chinese president to end ivory trade, theguardian.com, 20 February) of the open letter by animal conservationists and MPs accused China of its ivory trade policy and attributed elephant poaching to \u201cChina\u2019s demand\u201d. Such allegations are misleading and contrary to the facts.The Chinese government attaches great importance to protecting elephants, and China has worked closely with the international community to resolutely fight the illegal ivory trade. It has intensified efforts to fight ivory smuggling and dealt with a large number of cases in recent years.\u00a0The illegal ivory trade cannot be stopped by one or two countries alone. It requires the whole world to come on board, taking concrete steps to enhance law-enforcement and monitoring, educate the public and combine prevention and control measures.China shoulders the dual responsibility of protecting elephants as a natural heritage and carrying forward the intangible cultural heritage of ivory carving. Legal ivory processing in China is to preserve traditional ivory carving arts and crafts. The processing scale is limited with the toughest regulatory and monitoring measures applied. To blame elephant poaching solely on China\u2019s legal ivory imports is unfair. It will mislead the global efforts to protect the elephants and will do no good to the cause of elephant protection.Deyu MiaoEmbassy of the People\u2019s Republic of China, London", "tags": ["Illegal wildlife trade", "Endangered species", "China", "David Attenborough", "Wildlife", "Conservation", "Environment", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China has no truck with ivory smuggling"},{"date": "2015-03-06T08:19:28Z", "country": "china", "content": "A Chinese investor has bought a 5% stake in British holiday group Thomas Cook for \u00a392m as part of a broader expansion into Europe\u2019s tourism sector.Fosun International plans to double its initial investment in the package holiday specialist to 10% \u201cover time\u201d, Thomas Cook said in a statement.Last month, the Chinese conglomerate bought French holiday company Club Med for \u20ac939m (\u00a3679) following a long takeover battle. Thomas Cook and Club Med are expected to work more closely together as a result of the new deal. Thomas Cook shares rose by 13% to 137p in early trading.Peter Fankhauser, chief executive of Thomas Cook, said Fosun\u2019s portfolio of travel investments would allow it to exploit new opportunities for growth abroad. He said: \u201cOur partnership with Fosun is aimed at accelerating our profitable growth strategy by allowing us to further develop ... in our core destination markets, to collaborate with Fosun\u2019s other portfolio businesses particularly in France, and to access the world\u2019s largest and fastest-growing tourism markets with an experienced local partner.\u201dThomas Cook and Fosun will work together to capitalise on the Chinese domestic and international tourism market which is expanding rapidly as the middle classes in the world\u2019s second-largest economy swell. The two companies also plan to jointly develop a hotel portfolio. Wang Qunbin, executive director and president of Fosun, said its stake in Thomas Cook complemented its other recent investments in the travel sector. He added: \u201cThomas Cook\u2019s strong brand heritage and its leading position in the European travel market, together with Fosun\u2019s extensive expertise and resources, will capitalise on the increasing demand for international leisure travel.\u201d", "tags": ["Thomas Cook", "Travel & leisure", "Mergers and acquisitions", "Business", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "Thomas Cook stake sold to China conglomerate"},{"date": "2015-02-06T12:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Deeba and her friend Zanna find themselves in mortal danger when they discover the city of UnLondon. UnLondon is full of walking and flying buses; houses made from all sorts of materials; ghosts and half-ghosts; not to mention the living umbrellas!Deeba and Zanna make all sorts of strange friends in UnLondon before they leave. Deeba and her group of out-of-this-worldly friends join the battle against the Terrible Cloud Smog. Here starts the dangerous and challenging journey through a forest in a house and black windows to retrieve the UnGun.My favourite character is Yoric Cavea (a bird that lives in a cage on the neck of a human body) because he risks his life for Deeba and because I think he is very funny.I would recommend this book to 10+ but if you want a good long book to read you could try it.\u2022 Buy this book at the Guardian Bookshop.Want to tell the world about a book you've read? Join the site and send us your review!", "tags": ["Children and teenagers", "Books", "Culture", "Children's books: 8-12 years", "Children's fantasy books (children's and teens)"], "title": "Un Lun Dun by China Mi\u00e9ville \u2013 review"},{"date": "2015-01-12T16:50:24Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has adamantly denied the oft-repeated charge that it is building an empire in Africa just as the European powers did in the late 19th century.Beijing is Africa\u2019s biggest trade partner and has frequently been accused of an ethically deaf \u201cresource colonialism\u201d \u2013 extracting the continent\u2019s mineral wealth at knockdown prices to propel its economic growth.But foreign minister Wang Yi, on a five-nation tour of Africa, insisted: \u201cPolitically, we always speak up for African countries and uphold justice. Economically, we help African countries to enhance development to achieve prosperity.\u201cIn China\u2019s exchanges and cooperation with Africa, we want to see mutual benefit and win-win results. I want to make clear one point, that is, China will never follow the track of western colonists and all cooperation with Africa will never come at the expense of the ecology, environment or long-term interests of Africa.\u201dThe comments were made to Chinese Central Television while Wang was in Kenya, where he met President Uhuru Kenyatta on Saturday. Chinese firms are carrying out a $653m (\u00a3430m) expansion of the main airport in the capital, Nairobi.China\u2019s rivalry with the west on the African stage has been much debated, but it is rare for one side to draw comparison so publicly. Last year, at the biggest gathering of African leaders ever held in Washington, US president Barack Obama said pointedly, \u201cWe don\u2019t look to Africa simply for its natural resources,\u201d but declined to mention China by name.Only in a diplomatic cable, published via WikiLeaks in 2010 and not intended for public consumption, did a US official admit: \u201cChina is a very aggressive and pernicious economic competitor with no morals. China is not in Africa for altruistic reasons. China is in Africa for China primarily.\u201dPreviously, Beijing has said its cooperation with African nations ranges across agriculture, health and infrastructure-related projects from schools to stadiums. The $200m headquarters of the Africa Union in Addis Ababa was a present and a \u201csymbol of deepening relations\u201d.China maintains that more than half its foreign aid \u2013 more than $14bn between 2010 and 2012 \u2013 goes to Africa. It says the support comes with no strings attached and that it will never interfere in countries\u2019 domestic affairs. But by default, critics argue, this means it effectively shores up the rule of Angola\u2019s Jos\u00e9 Eduardo dos Santos, Sudan\u2019s Omar al-Bashir and Zimbabwe\u2019s Robert Mugabe, three of Africa\u2019s most tenaciously authoritarian rulers.Last month, however, Beijing announced that it will send 700 combat troops to join the UN peacekeeping mission in South Sudan, signalling an unusually robust intervention. Speaking to reporters in Sudan on Sunday, Wang defended China\u2019s mediation efforts in South Sudan, rejecting the claim that it was acting out of self-interest after investing heavily in oil. \u201cChina\u2019s mediation of South Sudan issues is completely the responsibility and duty of a responsible power, and not because of China\u2019s own interests,\u201d the minister said.Wang\u2019s itinerary spans Kenya, Cameroon, Equatorial Guinea, Sudan and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. ", "tags": ["Trade and development", "Governance", "Global development", "China", "Africa"], "title": "China denies building empire in Africa"},{"date": "2015-03-30T12:48:37Z", "country": "china", "content": "Rolls-Royce has signed a deal with Air China to supply its Trent 1000 engines for 15 Boeing Dreamliner aircraft.The company said the deal would add around $1bn (\u00a3670m) to its order book, and build on its strong relationship with the airline. The company received a $1.8bn engine order from Air China in 2010 and the airline currently flies 49 Trent 700-powered aircraft. The news lifted Rolls\u2019s share price by nearly 1% to 955p.However, Rolls-Royce\u2019s relationships in the region are not limited to Air China. The 2010 order followed a separate deal with China Eastern Airlines, made during David Cameron\u2019s trade mission. Rolls-Royce states that it has \u201cbeen actively involved in the rapid growth of Chinese civil aviation\u201d and has operations across China. The engineering group supplies an estimated 56% of engines in China, as of 2010.The deal comes after a disappointing year for the group, with a series of profit warnings and a number of job cuts. Last week, it announced 200 redundancies in Scotland as part of a plan to reduce headcount by 2,600 worldwide.The order follows a deal earlier this month to supply Trent 700 worth $300m to Turkish Airlines.\u201cThe second sales deal in a month for Rolls\u2019s Trent engines is a start in the right direction to repairing the investor damage from several profit warnings over the past year,\u201d said Lewis Sturdy, a London Capital Group dealer. ", "tags": ["Rolls-Royce", "China", "Asia Pacific", "Business", "Air transport", "Airline industry", "World news"], "title": "Rolls-Royce signs $1bn engine deal with Air China"},{"date": "2015-03-25T17:03:45Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has rejected calls from Britain, the US ambassador to the UN and others to release five feminist activists detained just before International Women\u2019s Day. Hua Chunying, a spokeswoman for the country\u2019s foreign ministry, said she had no specific details about the cases, but insisted: \u201cNo one has the right to ask China to release relevant persons, so we hope that relevant people will stop interfering in China\u2019s judicial sovereignty in such a manner.\u201dThe women have been held for nearly three weeks on charges of disturbing public order. They had planned to distribute stickers calling for action against sexual harassment. Beijing police told Associated Press that they too had no information on the cases. In the UK, a Foreign Office spokesperson  expressed deep concern about the detentions and said: \u201cWe are particularly concerned by reports that they have been denied due legal process, and at least one, Wu Rongrong, denied access to adequate medical care.\u201cWe urge China to release all those detained for exercising their rights to freedom of expression, in line with China\u2019s constitution and international human rights commitments.\u201d Related: Women's human rights defenders under threat \u2013 podcast Wu has hepatitis B and spent the month before her arrest in hospital, but was reportedly denied medication for more than a week prior to her transfer to the detention centre\u2019s medical facility. Her former lawyer Wang Fei said she was experiencing pain in the liver area and had blood in her phlegm. Before her transfer, she told Wang that she had been forced to sleep on a concrete floor and denied regular medication by authorities who said her condition did not require treatment. The US-based group Human Rights in China said another activist, Wang Man, was also in the medical centre after developing a heart condition following hours of interrogation.While the past two years have seen a marked increase in detentions and convictions of activists and dissidents, there is particular shock at the decision to criminally detain the five. Several of them had a record of highlighting issues facing women in imaginative ways which seemed to be within the limits of official tolerance. Sophie Richardson, China director at Human Rights Watch, said: \u201cWhat they were planning to do was hand out leaflets and put out stickers on public transport to raise awareness of sexual harassment.\u201cThey were not planning to mobilise hundreds or thousands of people, go to government offices [to protest] or even form a new NGO or political party or politically challenge the party or the government. They were essentially planning to carry out public education on a subject that does get addressed in the official media to some extent.\u201cIt shows how allergic the government is to any kind of activity, outreach or encouragement of advocacy by any independent voices.\u201d Related: Meet the Chinese women standing up to inequality If charged and convicted, Wu, Wang and the other three detainees \u2013 Wei Tingting, Zheng Churan, also known as \u201cDatu\u201d or \u201cBig Rabbit\u201d, and Li Tingting, better known as Li Maizi \u2013 could face up to three years in prison. Four others detained at the same time were released shortly afterwards. Yan Xin, Li\u2019s lawyer, said: \u201cTheir action does not constitute any violation of law, and the police are certainly wrong in detaining them.\u201dOn Friday, the US ambassador to the UN, Samantha Power, said the charge of \u201ccreating a disturbance\u201d was a pretext for stifling their attempts to tackle pressing social problems. She said: \u201cIf China is committed to advancing the rights of women, then it should be working to address the issues raised by these women\u2019s rights activists \u2013 not silencing them.\u201dThe EU has also called for their release, saying it expected the Chinese authorities to let them go without delay. Police raided the Beijing office of public health and social justice NGO Yirenping in the early hours of Tuesday, Human Rights Watch said. The detained women had supported or worked with the group and authorities have sharply increased scrutiny of non-profit groups recently.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "Feminism", "Women", "International Women's Day", "World news", "Life and style"], "title": "China rejects international pleas to release five feminists from jail"},{"date": "2015-03-06T19:34:54Z", "country": "china", "content": "The report on your website (David Attenborough calls on Chinese president to end ivory trade, theguardian.com, 20 February) of the open letter by animal conservationists and MPs accused China of its ivory trade policy and attributed elephant poaching to \u201cChina\u2019s demand\u201d. Such allegations are misleading and contrary to the facts.The Chinese government attaches great importance to protecting elephants, and China has worked closely with the international community to resolutely fight the illegal ivory trade. It has intensified efforts to fight ivory smuggling and dealt with a large number of cases in recent years.\u00a0The illegal ivory trade cannot be stopped by one or two countries alone. It requires the whole world to come on board, taking concrete steps to enhance law-enforcement and monitoring, educate the public and combine prevention and control measures.China shoulders the dual responsibility of protecting elephants as a natural heritage and carrying forward the intangible cultural heritage of ivory carving. Legal ivory processing in China is to preserve traditional ivory carving arts and crafts. The processing scale is limited with the toughest regulatory and monitoring measures applied. To blame elephant poaching solely on China\u2019s legal ivory imports is unfair. It will mislead the global efforts to protect the elephants and will do no good to the cause of elephant protection.Deyu MiaoEmbassy of the People\u2019s Republic of China, London", "tags": ["Illegal wildlife trade", "Endangered species", "China", "David Attenborough", "Wildlife", "Conservation", "Environment", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China has no truck with ivory smuggling"},{"date": "2015-03-06T08:19:28Z", "country": "china", "content": "A Chinese investor has bought a 5% stake in British holiday group Thomas Cook for \u00a392m as part of a broader expansion into Europe\u2019s tourism sector.Fosun International plans to double its initial investment in the package holiday specialist to 10% \u201cover time\u201d, Thomas Cook said in a statement.Last month, the Chinese conglomerate bought French holiday company Club Med for \u20ac939m (\u00a3679) following a long takeover battle. Thomas Cook and Club Med are expected to work more closely together as a result of the new deal. Thomas Cook shares rose by 13% to 137p in early trading.Peter Fankhauser, chief executive of Thomas Cook, said Fosun\u2019s portfolio of travel investments would allow it to exploit new opportunities for growth abroad. He said: \u201cOur partnership with Fosun is aimed at accelerating our profitable growth strategy by allowing us to further develop ... in our core destination markets, to collaborate with Fosun\u2019s other portfolio businesses particularly in France, and to access the world\u2019s largest and fastest-growing tourism markets with an experienced local partner.\u201dThomas Cook and Fosun will work together to capitalise on the Chinese domestic and international tourism market which is expanding rapidly as the middle classes in the world\u2019s second-largest economy swell. The two companies also plan to jointly develop a hotel portfolio. Wang Qunbin, executive director and president of Fosun, said its stake in Thomas Cook complemented its other recent investments in the travel sector. He added: \u201cThomas Cook\u2019s strong brand heritage and its leading position in the European travel market, together with Fosun\u2019s extensive expertise and resources, will capitalise on the increasing demand for international leisure travel.\u201d", "tags": ["Thomas Cook", "Travel & leisure", "Mergers and acquisitions", "Business", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "Thomas Cook stake sold to China conglomerate"},{"date": "2015-02-06T12:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Deeba and her friend Zanna find themselves in mortal danger when they discover the city of UnLondon. UnLondon is full of walking and flying buses; houses made from all sorts of materials; ghosts and half-ghosts; not to mention the living umbrellas!Deeba and Zanna make all sorts of strange friends in UnLondon before they leave. Deeba and her group of out-of-this-worldly friends join the battle against the Terrible Cloud Smog. Here starts the dangerous and challenging journey through a forest in a house and black windows to retrieve the UnGun.My favourite character is Yoric Cavea (a bird that lives in a cage on the neck of a human body) because he risks his life for Deeba and because I think he is very funny.I would recommend this book to 10+ but if you want a good long book to read you could try it.\u2022 Buy this book at the Guardian Bookshop.Want to tell the world about a book you've read? Join the site and send us your review!", "tags": ["Children and teenagers", "Books", "Culture", "Children's books: 8-12 years", "Children's fantasy books (children's and teens)"], "title": "Un Lun Dun by China Mi\u00e9ville \u2013 review"},{"date": "2015-01-12T16:50:24Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has adamantly denied the oft-repeated charge that it is building an empire in Africa just as the European powers did in the late 19th century.Beijing is Africa\u2019s biggest trade partner and has frequently been accused of an ethically deaf \u201cresource colonialism\u201d \u2013 extracting the continent\u2019s mineral wealth at knockdown prices to propel its economic growth.But foreign minister Wang Yi, on a five-nation tour of Africa, insisted: \u201cPolitically, we always speak up for African countries and uphold justice. Economically, we help African countries to enhance development to achieve prosperity.\u201cIn China\u2019s exchanges and cooperation with Africa, we want to see mutual benefit and win-win results. I want to make clear one point, that is, China will never follow the track of western colonists and all cooperation with Africa will never come at the expense of the ecology, environment or long-term interests of Africa.\u201dThe comments were made to Chinese Central Television while Wang was in Kenya, where he met President Uhuru Kenyatta on Saturday. Chinese firms are carrying out a $653m (\u00a3430m) expansion of the main airport in the capital, Nairobi.China\u2019s rivalry with the west on the African stage has been much debated, but it is rare for one side to draw comparison so publicly. Last year, at the biggest gathering of African leaders ever held in Washington, US president Barack Obama said pointedly, \u201cWe don\u2019t look to Africa simply for its natural resources,\u201d but declined to mention China by name.Only in a diplomatic cable, published via WikiLeaks in 2010 and not intended for public consumption, did a US official admit: \u201cChina is a very aggressive and pernicious economic competitor with no morals. China is not in Africa for altruistic reasons. China is in Africa for China primarily.\u201dPreviously, Beijing has said its cooperation with African nations ranges across agriculture, health and infrastructure-related projects from schools to stadiums. The $200m headquarters of the Africa Union in Addis Ababa was a present and a \u201csymbol of deepening relations\u201d.China maintains that more than half its foreign aid \u2013 more than $14bn between 2010 and 2012 \u2013 goes to Africa. It says the support comes with no strings attached and that it will never interfere in countries\u2019 domestic affairs. But by default, critics argue, this means it effectively shores up the rule of Angola\u2019s Jos\u00e9 Eduardo dos Santos, Sudan\u2019s Omar al-Bashir and Zimbabwe\u2019s Robert Mugabe, three of Africa\u2019s most tenaciously authoritarian rulers.Last month, however, Beijing announced that it will send 700 combat troops to join the UN peacekeeping mission in South Sudan, signalling an unusually robust intervention. Speaking to reporters in Sudan on Sunday, Wang defended China\u2019s mediation efforts in South Sudan, rejecting the claim that it was acting out of self-interest after investing heavily in oil. \u201cChina\u2019s mediation of South Sudan issues is completely the responsibility and duty of a responsible power, and not because of China\u2019s own interests,\u201d the minister said.Wang\u2019s itinerary spans Kenya, Cameroon, Equatorial Guinea, Sudan and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. ", "tags": ["Trade and development", "Governance", "Global development", "China", "Africa"], "title": "China denies building empire in Africa"},{"date": "2015-03-30T12:48:37Z", "country": "china", "content": "Rolls-Royce has signed a deal with Air China to supply its Trent 1000 engines for 15 Boeing Dreamliner aircraft.The company said the deal would add around $1bn (\u00a3670m) to its order book, and build on its strong relationship with the airline. The company received a $1.8bn engine order from Air China in 2010 and the airline currently flies 49 Trent 700-powered aircraft. The news lifted Rolls\u2019s share price by nearly 1% to 955p.However, Rolls-Royce\u2019s relationships in the region are not limited to Air China. The 2010 order followed a separate deal with China Eastern Airlines, made during David Cameron\u2019s trade mission. Rolls-Royce states that it has \u201cbeen actively involved in the rapid growth of Chinese civil aviation\u201d and has operations across China. The engineering group supplies an estimated 56% of engines in China, as of 2010.The deal comes after a disappointing year for the group, with a series of profit warnings and a number of job cuts. Last week, it announced 200 redundancies in Scotland as part of a plan to reduce headcount by 2,600 worldwide.The order follows a deal earlier this month to supply Trent 700 worth $300m to Turkish Airlines.\u201cThe second sales deal in a month for Rolls\u2019s Trent engines is a start in the right direction to repairing the investor damage from several profit warnings over the past year,\u201d said Lewis Sturdy, a London Capital Group dealer. ", "tags": ["Rolls-Royce", "China", "Asia Pacific", "Business", "Air transport", "Airline industry", "World news"], "title": "Rolls-Royce signs $1bn engine deal with Air China"},{"date": "2015-03-25T17:03:45Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has rejected calls from Britain, the US ambassador to the UN and others to release five feminist activists detained just before International Women\u2019s Day. Hua Chunying, a spokeswoman for the country\u2019s foreign ministry, said she had no specific details about the cases, but insisted: \u201cNo one has the right to ask China to release relevant persons, so we hope that relevant people will stop interfering in China\u2019s judicial sovereignty in such a manner.\u201dThe women have been held for nearly three weeks on charges of disturbing public order. They had planned to distribute stickers calling for action against sexual harassment. Beijing police told Associated Press that they too had no information on the cases. In the UK, a Foreign Office spokesperson  expressed deep concern about the detentions and said: \u201cWe are particularly concerned by reports that they have been denied due legal process, and at least one, Wu Rongrong, denied access to adequate medical care.\u201cWe urge China to release all those detained for exercising their rights to freedom of expression, in line with China\u2019s constitution and international human rights commitments.\u201d Related: Women's human rights defenders under threat \u2013 podcast Wu has hepatitis B and spent the month before her arrest in hospital, but was reportedly denied medication for more than a week prior to her transfer to the detention centre\u2019s medical facility. Her former lawyer Wang Fei said she was experiencing pain in the liver area and had blood in her phlegm. Before her transfer, she told Wang that she had been forced to sleep on a concrete floor and denied regular medication by authorities who said her condition did not require treatment. The US-based group Human Rights in China said another activist, Wang Man, was also in the medical centre after developing a heart condition following hours of interrogation.While the past two years have seen a marked increase in detentions and convictions of activists and dissidents, there is particular shock at the decision to criminally detain the five. Several of them had a record of highlighting issues facing women in imaginative ways which seemed to be within the limits of official tolerance. Sophie Richardson, China director at Human Rights Watch, said: \u201cWhat they were planning to do was hand out leaflets and put out stickers on public transport to raise awareness of sexual harassment.\u201cThey were not planning to mobilise hundreds or thousands of people, go to government offices [to protest] or even form a new NGO or political party or politically challenge the party or the government. They were essentially planning to carry out public education on a subject that does get addressed in the official media to some extent.\u201cIt shows how allergic the government is to any kind of activity, outreach or encouragement of advocacy by any independent voices.\u201d Related: Meet the Chinese women standing up to inequality If charged and convicted, Wu, Wang and the other three detainees \u2013 Wei Tingting, Zheng Churan, also known as \u201cDatu\u201d or \u201cBig Rabbit\u201d, and Li Tingting, better known as Li Maizi \u2013 could face up to three years in prison. Four others detained at the same time were released shortly afterwards. Yan Xin, Li\u2019s lawyer, said: \u201cTheir action does not constitute any violation of law, and the police are certainly wrong in detaining them.\u201dOn Friday, the US ambassador to the UN, Samantha Power, said the charge of \u201ccreating a disturbance\u201d was a pretext for stifling their attempts to tackle pressing social problems. She said: \u201cIf China is committed to advancing the rights of women, then it should be working to address the issues raised by these women\u2019s rights activists \u2013 not silencing them.\u201dThe EU has also called for their release, saying it expected the Chinese authorities to let them go without delay. Police raided the Beijing office of public health and social justice NGO Yirenping in the early hours of Tuesday, Human Rights Watch said. The detained women had supported or worked with the group and authorities have sharply increased scrutiny of non-profit groups recently.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "Feminism", "Women", "International Women's Day", "World news", "Life and style"], "title": "China rejects international pleas to release five feminists from jail"},{"date": "2015-03-15T17:35:28Z", "country": "china", "content": "China will struggle to meet its growth target of around 7%, but still has the means to shore up its economy, the country\u2019s premier, Li Keqiang, said on Sunday. \u201cIn recent years, we have not taken any strong, short-term stimulus policies \u2026 We still have more tools in the toolbox,\u201d Li told his annual press conference, marking the end of major political meetings in Beijing. Related: China lowers growth target to 7% as it fights 'deep-seated' economic problems Analysts suggest that China, which saw 7.4% growth last year, will probably miss its target again. Authorities are hammering home the need to adjust to a \u201cnew normal\u201d of lower growth as the country seeks more balanced development. \u201cThe pain of reform is still there. Actually the pain is becoming more acute,\u201d Li said.\u201cThis is not nail clipping, this is like cutting off one\u2019s limb with a sword and we have to do it despite the pain.\u201dQuestions at the press conference are pre-screened and it rarely offers major political revelations: many of Li\u2019s remarks echoed those he has made in previous years. But, like the spring meetings of the largely rubber-stamp parliament and the country\u2019s political consultative body, it helps to indicate the government\u2019s plans and progress. The themes highlighted over the sessions include:The meetings were overshadowed by the runaway success of smog documentary Under the Dome, praised by the environment minister - but then deleted by censors. Related: China takes environmental documentary that went viral off the web David Kelly, of research and advisory company China Policy, said the \u201cevident bungle\u201d reflected a lack of talent at the executive officer level: \u201cIt could not have been produced and shown without some major approvals \u2026 But public reaction went beyond what they were prepared for.\u201dLi said authorities were determined to tackle pollution, adding: \u201cThe progress we have made still falls short of the expectations of our people.\u201dShi Lei, an environmental economics professor at the Renmin University of China, noted that Beijing had increased funding for environmental protection and introduced action plans to tackle air and water pollution. But local governments, industries and social finance were still lagging, he said. Zeng Kanghua, a fiscal studies expert at the Central University of Finance and Economics, warned that environmental spending was the easiest cut for policy makers if there was pressure to reduce spending. The government laid out plans to raise the statutory retirement age gradually, facing the \u201cdemographic timebomb\u201d China faces with fewer young people entering the workforce and a growing number of pensioners.\u201cOnce [the public] see the urgency of this change, they will come around,\u201d said Yao Yang, dean of the National School of Development at Peking University, adding that China should also sell off the assets of state owned enterprises to fund pensions and stop encouraging people to retire early.Yang Lixiong, an expert on social security at Renmin University, said life expectancy had soared since the retirement age was set in the 1950s. He argued that population policies must also change so that families can have more than one child.Fu Ying, spokeswoman for the National People\u2019s Congress, acknowledged the benefits that foreign non-governmental organisations had brought, but said China needed to better regulate them for national security reasons, increasing concern over a new law being drafted.Non-profits fear that stricter rules will make their work far more difficult and may force them to close. Under the as yet unpublished bill, the public security ministry - rather than the civil affairs ministry - would register them. The law would reportedly prevent them opening more than one office, raising funds locally, or funding projects contrary to \u201cChinese society\u2019s moral customs\u201d.Authorities highlighted the continuing crackdown with comments on several major cases and announced the investigation of Yunnan deputy party chief Qiu He on Sunday \u2013 just after he appeared at the NPC.Statements that the Dalai Lama must be reincarnated \u2013 the exiled Tibetan spiritual leader has hinted he might not be \u2013 and that the atheist Communist party will decide on the next incarnation were widely reported. \u201cDecision-making power over the reincarnation \u2026 and over the end or survival of this lineage, resides in the central government of China,\u201d said Zhu Weiqun, who heads the ethnic and religious affairs committee of the Chinese People\u2019s Political Consultative conference.But Robert Barnett, a Tibet expert at Columbia University, portrayed that as a face-saving restatement of a longstanding position and drew attention to proposals at the CPPCC that monasteries should play a role in society and that changes are needed to longstanding quotas limiting the number of monks per institution. He said previous remarks from Zhu suggested there was a new nationalities policy, adding: \u201cThe Panchen Lama\u2019s [proposals] were the only sign [yet] that tells us what a new policy might mean.\u201d", "tags": ["China", "Li Keqiang", "Pollution", "Asia Pacific", "Tibet", "Environment", "World news"], "title": "China will struggle to meet growth target, says premier"},{"date": "2015-03-06T19:34:54Z", "country": "china", "content": "The report on your website (David Attenborough calls on Chinese president to end ivory trade, theguardian.com, 20 February) of the open letter by animal conservationists and MPs accused China of its ivory trade policy and attributed elephant poaching to \u201cChina\u2019s demand\u201d. Such allegations are misleading and contrary to the facts.The Chinese government attaches great importance to protecting elephants, and China has worked closely with the international community to resolutely fight the illegal ivory trade. It has intensified efforts to fight ivory smuggling and dealt with a large number of cases in recent years.\u00a0The illegal ivory trade cannot be stopped by one or two countries alone. It requires the whole world to come on board, taking concrete steps to enhance law-enforcement and monitoring, educate the public and combine prevention and control measures.China shoulders the dual responsibility of protecting elephants as a natural heritage and carrying forward the intangible cultural heritage of ivory carving. Legal ivory processing in China is to preserve traditional ivory carving arts and crafts. The processing scale is limited with the toughest regulatory and monitoring measures applied. To blame elephant poaching solely on China\u2019s legal ivory imports is unfair. It will mislead the global efforts to protect the elephants and will do no good to the cause of elephant protection.Deyu MiaoEmbassy of the People\u2019s Republic of China, London", "tags": ["Illegal wildlife trade", "Endangered species", "China", "David Attenborough", "Wildlife", "Conservation", "Environment", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China has no truck with ivory smuggling"},{"date": "2015-03-06T08:19:28Z", "country": "china", "content": "A Chinese investor has bought a 5% stake in British holiday group Thomas Cook for \u00a392m as part of a broader expansion into Europe\u2019s tourism sector.Fosun International plans to double its initial investment in the package holiday specialist to 10% \u201cover time\u201d, Thomas Cook said in a statement.Last month, the Chinese conglomerate bought French holiday company Club Med for \u20ac939m (\u00a3679) following a long takeover battle. Thomas Cook and Club Med are expected to work more closely together as a result of the new deal. Thomas Cook shares rose by 13% to 137p in early trading.Peter Fankhauser, chief executive of Thomas Cook, said Fosun\u2019s portfolio of travel investments would allow it to exploit new opportunities for growth abroad. He said: \u201cOur partnership with Fosun is aimed at accelerating our profitable growth strategy by allowing us to further develop ... in our core destination markets, to collaborate with Fosun\u2019s other portfolio businesses particularly in France, and to access the world\u2019s largest and fastest-growing tourism markets with an experienced local partner.\u201dThomas Cook and Fosun will work together to capitalise on the Chinese domestic and international tourism market which is expanding rapidly as the middle classes in the world\u2019s second-largest economy swell. The two companies also plan to jointly develop a hotel portfolio. Wang Qunbin, executive director and president of Fosun, said its stake in Thomas Cook complemented its other recent investments in the travel sector. He added: \u201cThomas Cook\u2019s strong brand heritage and its leading position in the European travel market, together with Fosun\u2019s extensive expertise and resources, will capitalise on the increasing demand for international leisure travel.\u201d", "tags": ["Thomas Cook", "Travel & leisure", "Mergers and acquisitions", "Business", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "Thomas Cook stake sold to China conglomerate"},{"date": "2015-02-06T12:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Deeba and her friend Zanna find themselves in mortal danger when they discover the city of UnLondon. UnLondon is full of walking and flying buses; houses made from all sorts of materials; ghosts and half-ghosts; not to mention the living umbrellas!Deeba and Zanna make all sorts of strange friends in UnLondon before they leave. Deeba and her group of out-of-this-worldly friends join the battle against the Terrible Cloud Smog. Here starts the dangerous and challenging journey through a forest in a house and black windows to retrieve the UnGun.My favourite character is Yoric Cavea (a bird that lives in a cage on the neck of a human body) because he risks his life for Deeba and because I think he is very funny.I would recommend this book to 10+ but if you want a good long book to read you could try it.\u2022 Buy this book at the Guardian Bookshop.Want to tell the world about a book you've read? Join the site and send us your review!", "tags": ["Children and teenagers", "Books", "Culture", "Children's books: 8-12 years", "Children's fantasy books (children's and teens)"], "title": "Un Lun Dun by China Mi\u00e9ville \u2013 review"},{"date": "2015-01-12T16:50:24Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has adamantly denied the oft-repeated charge that it is building an empire in Africa just as the European powers did in the late 19th century.Beijing is Africa\u2019s biggest trade partner and has frequently been accused of an ethically deaf \u201cresource colonialism\u201d \u2013 extracting the continent\u2019s mineral wealth at knockdown prices to propel its economic growth.But foreign minister Wang Yi, on a five-nation tour of Africa, insisted: \u201cPolitically, we always speak up for African countries and uphold justice. Economically, we help African countries to enhance development to achieve prosperity.\u201cIn China\u2019s exchanges and cooperation with Africa, we want to see mutual benefit and win-win results. I want to make clear one point, that is, China will never follow the track of western colonists and all cooperation with Africa will never come at the expense of the ecology, environment or long-term interests of Africa.\u201dThe comments were made to Chinese Central Television while Wang was in Kenya, where he met President Uhuru Kenyatta on Saturday. Chinese firms are carrying out a $653m (\u00a3430m) expansion of the main airport in the capital, Nairobi.China\u2019s rivalry with the west on the African stage has been much debated, but it is rare for one side to draw comparison so publicly. Last year, at the biggest gathering of African leaders ever held in Washington, US president Barack Obama said pointedly, \u201cWe don\u2019t look to Africa simply for its natural resources,\u201d but declined to mention China by name.Only in a diplomatic cable, published via WikiLeaks in 2010 and not intended for public consumption, did a US official admit: \u201cChina is a very aggressive and pernicious economic competitor with no morals. China is not in Africa for altruistic reasons. China is in Africa for China primarily.\u201dPreviously, Beijing has said its cooperation with African nations ranges across agriculture, health and infrastructure-related projects from schools to stadiums. The $200m headquarters of the Africa Union in Addis Ababa was a present and a \u201csymbol of deepening relations\u201d.China maintains that more than half its foreign aid \u2013 more than $14bn between 2010 and 2012 \u2013 goes to Africa. It says the support comes with no strings attached and that it will never interfere in countries\u2019 domestic affairs. But by default, critics argue, this means it effectively shores up the rule of Angola\u2019s Jos\u00e9 Eduardo dos Santos, Sudan\u2019s Omar al-Bashir and Zimbabwe\u2019s Robert Mugabe, three of Africa\u2019s most tenaciously authoritarian rulers.Last month, however, Beijing announced that it will send 700 combat troops to join the UN peacekeeping mission in South Sudan, signalling an unusually robust intervention. Speaking to reporters in Sudan on Sunday, Wang defended China\u2019s mediation efforts in South Sudan, rejecting the claim that it was acting out of self-interest after investing heavily in oil. \u201cChina\u2019s mediation of South Sudan issues is completely the responsibility and duty of a responsible power, and not because of China\u2019s own interests,\u201d the minister said.Wang\u2019s itinerary spans Kenya, Cameroon, Equatorial Guinea, Sudan and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. ", "tags": ["Trade and development", "Governance", "Global development", "China", "Africa"], "title": "China denies building empire in Africa"},{"date": "2015-03-30T12:48:37Z", "country": "china", "content": "Rolls-Royce has signed a deal with Air China to supply its Trent 1000 engines for 15 Boeing Dreamliner aircraft.The company said the deal would add around $1bn (\u00a3670m) to its order book, and build on its strong relationship with the airline. The company received a $1.8bn engine order from Air China in 2010 and the airline currently flies 49 Trent 700-powered aircraft. The news lifted Rolls\u2019s share price by nearly 1% to 955p.However, Rolls-Royce\u2019s relationships in the region are not limited to Air China. The 2010 order followed a separate deal with China Eastern Airlines, made during David Cameron\u2019s trade mission. Rolls-Royce states that it has \u201cbeen actively involved in the rapid growth of Chinese civil aviation\u201d and has operations across China. The engineering group supplies an estimated 56% of engines in China, as of 2010.The deal comes after a disappointing year for the group, with a series of profit warnings and a number of job cuts. Last week, it announced 200 redundancies in Scotland as part of a plan to reduce headcount by 2,600 worldwide.The order follows a deal earlier this month to supply Trent 700 worth $300m to Turkish Airlines.\u201cThe second sales deal in a month for Rolls\u2019s Trent engines is a start in the right direction to repairing the investor damage from several profit warnings over the past year,\u201d said Lewis Sturdy, a London Capital Group dealer. ", "tags": ["Rolls-Royce", "China", "Asia Pacific", "Business", "Air transport", "Airline industry", "World news"], "title": "Rolls-Royce signs $1bn engine deal with Air China"},{"date": "2015-03-25T17:03:45Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has rejected calls from Britain, the US ambassador to the UN and others to release five feminist activists detained just before International Women\u2019s Day. Hua Chunying, a spokeswoman for the country\u2019s foreign ministry, said she had no specific details about the cases, but insisted: \u201cNo one has the right to ask China to release relevant persons, so we hope that relevant people will stop interfering in China\u2019s judicial sovereignty in such a manner.\u201dThe women have been held for nearly three weeks on charges of disturbing public order. They had planned to distribute stickers calling for action against sexual harassment. Beijing police told Associated Press that they too had no information on the cases. In the UK, a Foreign Office spokesperson  expressed deep concern about the detentions and said: \u201cWe are particularly concerned by reports that they have been denied due legal process, and at least one, Wu Rongrong, denied access to adequate medical care.\u201cWe urge China to release all those detained for exercising their rights to freedom of expression, in line with China\u2019s constitution and international human rights commitments.\u201d Related: Women's human rights defenders under threat \u2013 podcast Wu has hepatitis B and spent the month before her arrest in hospital, but was reportedly denied medication for more than a week prior to her transfer to the detention centre\u2019s medical facility. Her former lawyer Wang Fei said she was experiencing pain in the liver area and had blood in her phlegm. Before her transfer, she told Wang that she had been forced to sleep on a concrete floor and denied regular medication by authorities who said her condition did not require treatment. The US-based group Human Rights in China said another activist, Wang Man, was also in the medical centre after developing a heart condition following hours of interrogation.While the past two years have seen a marked increase in detentions and convictions of activists and dissidents, there is particular shock at the decision to criminally detain the five. Several of them had a record of highlighting issues facing women in imaginative ways which seemed to be within the limits of official tolerance. Sophie Richardson, China director at Human Rights Watch, said: \u201cWhat they were planning to do was hand out leaflets and put out stickers on public transport to raise awareness of sexual harassment.\u201cThey were not planning to mobilise hundreds or thousands of people, go to government offices [to protest] or even form a new NGO or political party or politically challenge the party or the government. They were essentially planning to carry out public education on a subject that does get addressed in the official media to some extent.\u201cIt shows how allergic the government is to any kind of activity, outreach or encouragement of advocacy by any independent voices.\u201d Related: Meet the Chinese women standing up to inequality If charged and convicted, Wu, Wang and the other three detainees \u2013 Wei Tingting, Zheng Churan, also known as \u201cDatu\u201d or \u201cBig Rabbit\u201d, and Li Tingting, better known as Li Maizi \u2013 could face up to three years in prison. Four others detained at the same time were released shortly afterwards. Yan Xin, Li\u2019s lawyer, said: \u201cTheir action does not constitute any violation of law, and the police are certainly wrong in detaining them.\u201dOn Friday, the US ambassador to the UN, Samantha Power, said the charge of \u201ccreating a disturbance\u201d was a pretext for stifling their attempts to tackle pressing social problems. She said: \u201cIf China is committed to advancing the rights of women, then it should be working to address the issues raised by these women\u2019s rights activists \u2013 not silencing them.\u201dThe EU has also called for their release, saying it expected the Chinese authorities to let them go without delay. Police raided the Beijing office of public health and social justice NGO Yirenping in the early hours of Tuesday, Human Rights Watch said. The detained women had supported or worked with the group and authorities have sharply increased scrutiny of non-profit groups recently.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "Feminism", "Women", "International Women's Day", "World news", "Life and style"], "title": "China rejects international pleas to release five feminists from jail"},{"date": "2015-03-15T17:35:28Z", "country": "china", "content": "China will struggle to meet its growth target of around 7%, but still has the means to shore up its economy, the country\u2019s premier, Li Keqiang, said on Sunday. \u201cIn recent years, we have not taken any strong, short-term stimulus policies \u2026 We still have more tools in the toolbox,\u201d Li told his annual press conference, marking the end of major political meetings in Beijing. Related: China lowers growth target to 7% as it fights 'deep-seated' economic problems Analysts suggest that China, which saw 7.4% growth last year, will probably miss its target again. Authorities are hammering home the need to adjust to a \u201cnew normal\u201d of lower growth as the country seeks more balanced development. \u201cThe pain of reform is still there. Actually the pain is becoming more acute,\u201d Li said.\u201cThis is not nail clipping, this is like cutting off one\u2019s limb with a sword and we have to do it despite the pain.\u201dQuestions at the press conference are pre-screened and it rarely offers major political revelations: many of Li\u2019s remarks echoed those he has made in previous years. But, like the spring meetings of the largely rubber-stamp parliament and the country\u2019s political consultative body, it helps to indicate the government\u2019s plans and progress. The themes highlighted over the sessions include:The meetings were overshadowed by the runaway success of smog documentary Under the Dome, praised by the environment minister - but then deleted by censors. Related: China takes environmental documentary that went viral off the web David Kelly, of research and advisory company China Policy, said the \u201cevident bungle\u201d reflected a lack of talent at the executive officer level: \u201cIt could not have been produced and shown without some major approvals \u2026 But public reaction went beyond what they were prepared for.\u201dLi said authorities were determined to tackle pollution, adding: \u201cThe progress we have made still falls short of the expectations of our people.\u201dShi Lei, an environmental economics professor at the Renmin University of China, noted that Beijing had increased funding for environmental protection and introduced action plans to tackle air and water pollution. But local governments, industries and social finance were still lagging, he said. Zeng Kanghua, a fiscal studies expert at the Central University of Finance and Economics, warned that environmental spending was the easiest cut for policy makers if there was pressure to reduce spending. The government laid out plans to raise the statutory retirement age gradually, facing the \u201cdemographic timebomb\u201d China faces with fewer young people entering the workforce and a growing number of pensioners.\u201cOnce [the public] see the urgency of this change, they will come around,\u201d said Yao Yang, dean of the National School of Development at Peking University, adding that China should also sell off the assets of state owned enterprises to fund pensions and stop encouraging people to retire early.Yang Lixiong, an expert on social security at Renmin University, said life expectancy had soared since the retirement age was set in the 1950s. He argued that population policies must also change so that families can have more than one child.Fu Ying, spokeswoman for the National People\u2019s Congress, acknowledged the benefits that foreign non-governmental organisations had brought, but said China needed to better regulate them for national security reasons, increasing concern over a new law being drafted.Non-profits fear that stricter rules will make their work far more difficult and may force them to close. Under the as yet unpublished bill, the public security ministry - rather than the civil affairs ministry - would register them. The law would reportedly prevent them opening more than one office, raising funds locally, or funding projects contrary to \u201cChinese society\u2019s moral customs\u201d.Authorities highlighted the continuing crackdown with comments on several major cases and announced the investigation of Yunnan deputy party chief Qiu He on Sunday \u2013 just after he appeared at the NPC.Statements that the Dalai Lama must be reincarnated \u2013 the exiled Tibetan spiritual leader has hinted he might not be \u2013 and that the atheist Communist party will decide on the next incarnation were widely reported. \u201cDecision-making power over the reincarnation \u2026 and over the end or survival of this lineage, resides in the central government of China,\u201d said Zhu Weiqun, who heads the ethnic and religious affairs committee of the Chinese People\u2019s Political Consultative conference.But Robert Barnett, a Tibet expert at Columbia University, portrayed that as a face-saving restatement of a longstanding position and drew attention to proposals at the CPPCC that monasteries should play a role in society and that changes are needed to longstanding quotas limiting the number of monks per institution. He said previous remarks from Zhu suggested there was a new nationalities policy, adding: \u201cThe Panchen Lama\u2019s [proposals] were the only sign [yet] that tells us what a new policy might mean.\u201d", "tags": ["China", "Li Keqiang", "Pollution", "Asia Pacific", "Tibet", "Environment", "World news"], "title": "China will struggle to meet growth target, says premier"},{"date": "2015-03-14T03:31:26Z", "country": "china", "content": "Support for a Chinese-led development bank is growing despite US opposition, with Australia indicating that it could join the UK and New Zealand as a founding member. Analysts predicted that others would follow Britain\u2019s surprise decision to put its weight behind the new $50bn institution, despite the US making its irritation clear in an unusual public rebuke. \u201cNow the US\u2019s closest ally has been emboldened to do this, there\u2019s very little reason for others not to, because the rubicon has been crossed. If you\u2019re looking at South Korea and Australia, it\u2019s a bit of a no-brainer,\u201d said Stephen Spratt, a research fellow at the UK-based Institute of Development Studies.The Asia Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB), which is designed to provide funds to the Asia-Pacific region, is viewed with suspicion in Washington, where it is seen as a rival to the World Bank and a possible instrument of Chinese soft power in the region.One US official told the Financial Times: \u201cWe are wary about a trend toward constant accommodation of China, which is not the best way to engage a rising power.\u201d Related: US anger at Britain joining Chinese-led investment bank AIIB But a spokesman for the British prime minister brushed aside US criticism, saying: \u201cThere will be times when we take a different approach \u2026 We think that it\u2019s in the UK\u2019s national interest.\u201dAustralia\u2019s finance minister said the UK and New Zealand decisions reflected improvements in the governance structure China was proposing. \u201cThis is something that will obviously be taken into account by the government over the next few weeks as we continue our dialogue with those people behind the bank,\u201d said Joe Hockey, the treasurer.The US has reportedly lobbied Australia, South Korea and others to steer clear of the new institution. But 28 countries are planning to participate, with Indonesia also among those joining early enthusiasts such as India, Pakistan and Singapore. The deadline to become a founding member is the end of this month.A Chinese foreign ministry spokesman, Hong Lei, said Beijing welcomed the UK decision, adding that the AIIB would complement existing development banks. Zhao Changhui, a senior economist with the Export-Import Bank of China, said China had proposed the AIIB because it understood the importance of infrastructure in light of its own development; it had a huge surplus while many countries in the region lacked the funds they needed for infrastructure; and it knew that restoring the health of the global economy would require large scale cross-border trade and investment.But he added: \u201cThe founding of AIIB is a challenge to the US\u2019s economical and political dominance. It\u2019s also a challenge to the establishments controlled by the US, such as the World Bank.\u201dSome have suggested that AIIB is designed to compete with the US- and Japan-dominated Asia Development Bank (ADB).\u201cChina has tonnes of dollars in reserves and this seems like a good use,\u201d said Stephany Griffith-Jones, an expert on development banks at Columbia University in New York.\u201cThere\u2019s an estimated $1tn of need in infrastructure and sustainable development [in emerging and developing countries]. In a way, the more, the better \u2026 If countries are not happy [with the AIIB], they can still go to the World Bank or ADB.\u201dAmong the unmet needs are an estimated 1.4 billion people without access to electricity, the billion without clean drinking water and 2.6 billion without access to sanitation.Griffith-Jones added that British involvement would also allow the UK to help shape the institution \u2013 but given that China is providing most of the cash, it is unclear how much influence other countries will wield. She suggested that in terms of governance it might have been better if China were not providing quite so much of the funding.Beijing is also a major player in the New Development Bank being set up by the Brics nations \u2013 Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa \u2013 and is providing $40bn for the new Silk Road Fund to improve connectivity across Asia. The president of the World Bank, Jim Yong Kim, told a news conference: \u201cFrom the perspective simply of the need for more infrastructure spending, there\u2019s no doubt that from our perspective, we welcome the entry of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank.\u201dThe White House national security council said the US agreed there was a pressing need to enhance infrastructure investment, but had concerns about whether the AIIB would meet \u201cthe high standards, particularly related to governance, and environmental and social safeguards\u201d of the World Bank and regional development banks.Spratt said: \u201cPeople have been criticising the World Bank on exactly the same issues for decades and through all of that flak there\u2019s been significant learning. \u201cThe new multilateral organisations do have a lot to learn from the World Bank and regional development banks on the environmental and social side \u2013 but [the existing institutions] probably have quite a lot to learn from places like China in terms of how to deal with rapid infrastructure building and so on.\u201d", "tags": ["China", "Australia news", "Banking", "Asia Pacific", "Obama administration", "US foreign policy", "World Bank", "World news", "Business", "Economics", "Global economy", "US news", "Joe Hockey", "Australian economy"], "title": "Support for China-led development bank grows despite US opposition"},{"date": "2015-03-06T19:34:54Z", "country": "china", "content": "The report on your website (David Attenborough calls on Chinese president to end ivory trade, theguardian.com, 20 February) of the open letter by animal conservationists and MPs accused China of its ivory trade policy and attributed elephant poaching to \u201cChina\u2019s demand\u201d. Such allegations are misleading and contrary to the facts.The Chinese government attaches great importance to protecting elephants, and China has worked closely with the international community to resolutely fight the illegal ivory trade. It has intensified efforts to fight ivory smuggling and dealt with a large number of cases in recent years.\u00a0The illegal ivory trade cannot be stopped by one or two countries alone. It requires the whole world to come on board, taking concrete steps to enhance law-enforcement and monitoring, educate the public and combine prevention and control measures.China shoulders the dual responsibility of protecting elephants as a natural heritage and carrying forward the intangible cultural heritage of ivory carving. Legal ivory processing in China is to preserve traditional ivory carving arts and crafts. The processing scale is limited with the toughest regulatory and monitoring measures applied. To blame elephant poaching solely on China\u2019s legal ivory imports is unfair. It will mislead the global efforts to protect the elephants and will do no good to the cause of elephant protection.Deyu MiaoEmbassy of the People\u2019s Republic of China, London", "tags": ["Illegal wildlife trade", "Endangered species", "China", "David Attenborough", "Wildlife", "Conservation", "Environment", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China has no truck with ivory smuggling"},{"date": "2015-03-06T08:19:28Z", "country": "china", "content": "A Chinese investor has bought a 5% stake in British holiday group Thomas Cook for \u00a392m as part of a broader expansion into Europe\u2019s tourism sector.Fosun International plans to double its initial investment in the package holiday specialist to 10% \u201cover time\u201d, Thomas Cook said in a statement.Last month, the Chinese conglomerate bought French holiday company Club Med for \u20ac939m (\u00a3679) following a long takeover battle. Thomas Cook and Club Med are expected to work more closely together as a result of the new deal. Thomas Cook shares rose by 13% to 137p in early trading.Peter Fankhauser, chief executive of Thomas Cook, said Fosun\u2019s portfolio of travel investments would allow it to exploit new opportunities for growth abroad. He said: \u201cOur partnership with Fosun is aimed at accelerating our profitable growth strategy by allowing us to further develop ... in our core destination markets, to collaborate with Fosun\u2019s other portfolio businesses particularly in France, and to access the world\u2019s largest and fastest-growing tourism markets with an experienced local partner.\u201dThomas Cook and Fosun will work together to capitalise on the Chinese domestic and international tourism market which is expanding rapidly as the middle classes in the world\u2019s second-largest economy swell. The two companies also plan to jointly develop a hotel portfolio. Wang Qunbin, executive director and president of Fosun, said its stake in Thomas Cook complemented its other recent investments in the travel sector. He added: \u201cThomas Cook\u2019s strong brand heritage and its leading position in the European travel market, together with Fosun\u2019s extensive expertise and resources, will capitalise on the increasing demand for international leisure travel.\u201d", "tags": ["Thomas Cook", "Travel & leisure", "Mergers and acquisitions", "Business", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "Thomas Cook stake sold to China conglomerate"},{"date": "2015-02-06T12:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Deeba and her friend Zanna find themselves in mortal danger when they discover the city of UnLondon. UnLondon is full of walking and flying buses; houses made from all sorts of materials; ghosts and half-ghosts; not to mention the living umbrellas!Deeba and Zanna make all sorts of strange friends in UnLondon before they leave. Deeba and her group of out-of-this-worldly friends join the battle against the Terrible Cloud Smog. Here starts the dangerous and challenging journey through a forest in a house and black windows to retrieve the UnGun.My favourite character is Yoric Cavea (a bird that lives in a cage on the neck of a human body) because he risks his life for Deeba and because I think he is very funny.I would recommend this book to 10+ but if you want a good long book to read you could try it.\u2022 Buy this book at the Guardian Bookshop.Want to tell the world about a book you've read? Join the site and send us your review!", "tags": ["Children and teenagers", "Books", "Culture", "Children's books: 8-12 years", "Children's fantasy books (children's and teens)"], "title": "Un Lun Dun by China Mi\u00e9ville \u2013 review"},{"date": "2015-01-12T16:50:24Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has adamantly denied the oft-repeated charge that it is building an empire in Africa just as the European powers did in the late 19th century.Beijing is Africa\u2019s biggest trade partner and has frequently been accused of an ethically deaf \u201cresource colonialism\u201d \u2013 extracting the continent\u2019s mineral wealth at knockdown prices to propel its economic growth.But foreign minister Wang Yi, on a five-nation tour of Africa, insisted: \u201cPolitically, we always speak up for African countries and uphold justice. Economically, we help African countries to enhance development to achieve prosperity.\u201cIn China\u2019s exchanges and cooperation with Africa, we want to see mutual benefit and win-win results. I want to make clear one point, that is, China will never follow the track of western colonists and all cooperation with Africa will never come at the expense of the ecology, environment or long-term interests of Africa.\u201dThe comments were made to Chinese Central Television while Wang was in Kenya, where he met President Uhuru Kenyatta on Saturday. Chinese firms are carrying out a $653m (\u00a3430m) expansion of the main airport in the capital, Nairobi.China\u2019s rivalry with the west on the African stage has been much debated, but it is rare for one side to draw comparison so publicly. Last year, at the biggest gathering of African leaders ever held in Washington, US president Barack Obama said pointedly, \u201cWe don\u2019t look to Africa simply for its natural resources,\u201d but declined to mention China by name.Only in a diplomatic cable, published via WikiLeaks in 2010 and not intended for public consumption, did a US official admit: \u201cChina is a very aggressive and pernicious economic competitor with no morals. China is not in Africa for altruistic reasons. China is in Africa for China primarily.\u201dPreviously, Beijing has said its cooperation with African nations ranges across agriculture, health and infrastructure-related projects from schools to stadiums. The $200m headquarters of the Africa Union in Addis Ababa was a present and a \u201csymbol of deepening relations\u201d.China maintains that more than half its foreign aid \u2013 more than $14bn between 2010 and 2012 \u2013 goes to Africa. It says the support comes with no strings attached and that it will never interfere in countries\u2019 domestic affairs. But by default, critics argue, this means it effectively shores up the rule of Angola\u2019s Jos\u00e9 Eduardo dos Santos, Sudan\u2019s Omar al-Bashir and Zimbabwe\u2019s Robert Mugabe, three of Africa\u2019s most tenaciously authoritarian rulers.Last month, however, Beijing announced that it will send 700 combat troops to join the UN peacekeeping mission in South Sudan, signalling an unusually robust intervention. Speaking to reporters in Sudan on Sunday, Wang defended China\u2019s mediation efforts in South Sudan, rejecting the claim that it was acting out of self-interest after investing heavily in oil. \u201cChina\u2019s mediation of South Sudan issues is completely the responsibility and duty of a responsible power, and not because of China\u2019s own interests,\u201d the minister said.Wang\u2019s itinerary spans Kenya, Cameroon, Equatorial Guinea, Sudan and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. ", "tags": ["Trade and development", "Governance", "Global development", "China", "Africa"], "title": "China denies building empire in Africa"},{"date": "2015-03-30T12:48:37Z", "country": "china", "content": "Rolls-Royce has signed a deal with Air China to supply its Trent 1000 engines for 15 Boeing Dreamliner aircraft.The company said the deal would add around $1bn (\u00a3670m) to its order book, and build on its strong relationship with the airline. The company received a $1.8bn engine order from Air China in 2010 and the airline currently flies 49 Trent 700-powered aircraft. The news lifted Rolls\u2019s share price by nearly 1% to 955p.However, Rolls-Royce\u2019s relationships in the region are not limited to Air China. The 2010 order followed a separate deal with China Eastern Airlines, made during David Cameron\u2019s trade mission. Rolls-Royce states that it has \u201cbeen actively involved in the rapid growth of Chinese civil aviation\u201d and has operations across China. The engineering group supplies an estimated 56% of engines in China, as of 2010.The deal comes after a disappointing year for the group, with a series of profit warnings and a number of job cuts. Last week, it announced 200 redundancies in Scotland as part of a plan to reduce headcount by 2,600 worldwide.The order follows a deal earlier this month to supply Trent 700 worth $300m to Turkish Airlines.\u201cThe second sales deal in a month for Rolls\u2019s Trent engines is a start in the right direction to repairing the investor damage from several profit warnings over the past year,\u201d said Lewis Sturdy, a London Capital Group dealer. ", "tags": ["Rolls-Royce", "China", "Asia Pacific", "Business", "Air transport", "Airline industry", "World news"], "title": "Rolls-Royce signs $1bn engine deal with Air China"},{"date": "2015-03-25T17:03:45Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has rejected calls from Britain, the US ambassador to the UN and others to release five feminist activists detained just before International Women\u2019s Day. Hua Chunying, a spokeswoman for the country\u2019s foreign ministry, said she had no specific details about the cases, but insisted: \u201cNo one has the right to ask China to release relevant persons, so we hope that relevant people will stop interfering in China\u2019s judicial sovereignty in such a manner.\u201dThe women have been held for nearly three weeks on charges of disturbing public order. They had planned to distribute stickers calling for action against sexual harassment. Beijing police told Associated Press that they too had no information on the cases. In the UK, a Foreign Office spokesperson  expressed deep concern about the detentions and said: \u201cWe are particularly concerned by reports that they have been denied due legal process, and at least one, Wu Rongrong, denied access to adequate medical care.\u201cWe urge China to release all those detained for exercising their rights to freedom of expression, in line with China\u2019s constitution and international human rights commitments.\u201d Related: Women's human rights defenders under threat \u2013 podcast Wu has hepatitis B and spent the month before her arrest in hospital, but was reportedly denied medication for more than a week prior to her transfer to the detention centre\u2019s medical facility. Her former lawyer Wang Fei said she was experiencing pain in the liver area and had blood in her phlegm. Before her transfer, she told Wang that she had been forced to sleep on a concrete floor and denied regular medication by authorities who said her condition did not require treatment. The US-based group Human Rights in China said another activist, Wang Man, was also in the medical centre after developing a heart condition following hours of interrogation.While the past two years have seen a marked increase in detentions and convictions of activists and dissidents, there is particular shock at the decision to criminally detain the five. Several of them had a record of highlighting issues facing women in imaginative ways which seemed to be within the limits of official tolerance. Sophie Richardson, China director at Human Rights Watch, said: \u201cWhat they were planning to do was hand out leaflets and put out stickers on public transport to raise awareness of sexual harassment.\u201cThey were not planning to mobilise hundreds or thousands of people, go to government offices [to protest] or even form a new NGO or political party or politically challenge the party or the government. They were essentially planning to carry out public education on a subject that does get addressed in the official media to some extent.\u201cIt shows how allergic the government is to any kind of activity, outreach or encouragement of advocacy by any independent voices.\u201d Related: Meet the Chinese women standing up to inequality If charged and convicted, Wu, Wang and the other three detainees \u2013 Wei Tingting, Zheng Churan, also known as \u201cDatu\u201d or \u201cBig Rabbit\u201d, and Li Tingting, better known as Li Maizi \u2013 could face up to three years in prison. Four others detained at the same time were released shortly afterwards. Yan Xin, Li\u2019s lawyer, said: \u201cTheir action does not constitute any violation of law, and the police are certainly wrong in detaining them.\u201dOn Friday, the US ambassador to the UN, Samantha Power, said the charge of \u201ccreating a disturbance\u201d was a pretext for stifling their attempts to tackle pressing social problems. She said: \u201cIf China is committed to advancing the rights of women, then it should be working to address the issues raised by these women\u2019s rights activists \u2013 not silencing them.\u201dThe EU has also called for their release, saying it expected the Chinese authorities to let them go without delay. Police raided the Beijing office of public health and social justice NGO Yirenping in the early hours of Tuesday, Human Rights Watch said. The detained women had supported or worked with the group and authorities have sharply increased scrutiny of non-profit groups recently.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "Feminism", "Women", "International Women's Day", "World news", "Life and style"], "title": "China rejects international pleas to release five feminists from jail"},{"date": "2015-03-15T17:35:28Z", "country": "china", "content": "China will struggle to meet its growth target of around 7%, but still has the means to shore up its economy, the country\u2019s premier, Li Keqiang, said on Sunday. \u201cIn recent years, we have not taken any strong, short-term stimulus policies \u2026 We still have more tools in the toolbox,\u201d Li told his annual press conference, marking the end of major political meetings in Beijing. Related: China lowers growth target to 7% as it fights 'deep-seated' economic problems Analysts suggest that China, which saw 7.4% growth last year, will probably miss its target again. Authorities are hammering home the need to adjust to a \u201cnew normal\u201d of lower growth as the country seeks more balanced development. \u201cThe pain of reform is still there. Actually the pain is becoming more acute,\u201d Li said.\u201cThis is not nail clipping, this is like cutting off one\u2019s limb with a sword and we have to do it despite the pain.\u201dQuestions at the press conference are pre-screened and it rarely offers major political revelations: many of Li\u2019s remarks echoed those he has made in previous years. But, like the spring meetings of the largely rubber-stamp parliament and the country\u2019s political consultative body, it helps to indicate the government\u2019s plans and progress. The themes highlighted over the sessions include:The meetings were overshadowed by the runaway success of smog documentary Under the Dome, praised by the environment minister - but then deleted by censors. Related: China takes environmental documentary that went viral off the web David Kelly, of research and advisory company China Policy, said the \u201cevident bungle\u201d reflected a lack of talent at the executive officer level: \u201cIt could not have been produced and shown without some major approvals \u2026 But public reaction went beyond what they were prepared for.\u201dLi said authorities were determined to tackle pollution, adding: \u201cThe progress we have made still falls short of the expectations of our people.\u201dShi Lei, an environmental economics professor at the Renmin University of China, noted that Beijing had increased funding for environmental protection and introduced action plans to tackle air and water pollution. But local governments, industries and social finance were still lagging, he said. Zeng Kanghua, a fiscal studies expert at the Central University of Finance and Economics, warned that environmental spending was the easiest cut for policy makers if there was pressure to reduce spending. The government laid out plans to raise the statutory retirement age gradually, facing the \u201cdemographic timebomb\u201d China faces with fewer young people entering the workforce and a growing number of pensioners.\u201cOnce [the public] see the urgency of this change, they will come around,\u201d said Yao Yang, dean of the National School of Development at Peking University, adding that China should also sell off the assets of state owned enterprises to fund pensions and stop encouraging people to retire early.Yang Lixiong, an expert on social security at Renmin University, said life expectancy had soared since the retirement age was set in the 1950s. He argued that population policies must also change so that families can have more than one child.Fu Ying, spokeswoman for the National People\u2019s Congress, acknowledged the benefits that foreign non-governmental organisations had brought, but said China needed to better regulate them for national security reasons, increasing concern over a new law being drafted.Non-profits fear that stricter rules will make their work far more difficult and may force them to close. Under the as yet unpublished bill, the public security ministry - rather than the civil affairs ministry - would register them. The law would reportedly prevent them opening more than one office, raising funds locally, or funding projects contrary to \u201cChinese society\u2019s moral customs\u201d.Authorities highlighted the continuing crackdown with comments on several major cases and announced the investigation of Yunnan deputy party chief Qiu He on Sunday \u2013 just after he appeared at the NPC.Statements that the Dalai Lama must be reincarnated \u2013 the exiled Tibetan spiritual leader has hinted he might not be \u2013 and that the atheist Communist party will decide on the next incarnation were widely reported. \u201cDecision-making power over the reincarnation \u2026 and over the end or survival of this lineage, resides in the central government of China,\u201d said Zhu Weiqun, who heads the ethnic and religious affairs committee of the Chinese People\u2019s Political Consultative conference.But Robert Barnett, a Tibet expert at Columbia University, portrayed that as a face-saving restatement of a longstanding position and drew attention to proposals at the CPPCC that monasteries should play a role in society and that changes are needed to longstanding quotas limiting the number of monks per institution. He said previous remarks from Zhu suggested there was a new nationalities policy, adding: \u201cThe Panchen Lama\u2019s [proposals] were the only sign [yet] that tells us what a new policy might mean.\u201d", "tags": ["China", "Li Keqiang", "Pollution", "Asia Pacific", "Tibet", "Environment", "World news"], "title": "China will struggle to meet growth target, says premier"},{"date": "2015-03-14T03:31:26Z", "country": "china", "content": "Support for a Chinese-led development bank is growing despite US opposition, with Australia indicating that it could join the UK and New Zealand as a founding member. Analysts predicted that others would follow Britain\u2019s surprise decision to put its weight behind the new $50bn institution, despite the US making its irritation clear in an unusual public rebuke. \u201cNow the US\u2019s closest ally has been emboldened to do this, there\u2019s very little reason for others not to, because the rubicon has been crossed. If you\u2019re looking at South Korea and Australia, it\u2019s a bit of a no-brainer,\u201d said Stephen Spratt, a research fellow at the UK-based Institute of Development Studies.The Asia Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB), which is designed to provide funds to the Asia-Pacific region, is viewed with suspicion in Washington, where it is seen as a rival to the World Bank and a possible instrument of Chinese soft power in the region.One US official told the Financial Times: \u201cWe are wary about a trend toward constant accommodation of China, which is not the best way to engage a rising power.\u201d Related: US anger at Britain joining Chinese-led investment bank AIIB But a spokesman for the British prime minister brushed aside US criticism, saying: \u201cThere will be times when we take a different approach \u2026 We think that it\u2019s in the UK\u2019s national interest.\u201dAustralia\u2019s finance minister said the UK and New Zealand decisions reflected improvements in the governance structure China was proposing. \u201cThis is something that will obviously be taken into account by the government over the next few weeks as we continue our dialogue with those people behind the bank,\u201d said Joe Hockey, the treasurer.The US has reportedly lobbied Australia, South Korea and others to steer clear of the new institution. But 28 countries are planning to participate, with Indonesia also among those joining early enthusiasts such as India, Pakistan and Singapore. The deadline to become a founding member is the end of this month.A Chinese foreign ministry spokesman, Hong Lei, said Beijing welcomed the UK decision, adding that the AIIB would complement existing development banks. Zhao Changhui, a senior economist with the Export-Import Bank of China, said China had proposed the AIIB because it understood the importance of infrastructure in light of its own development; it had a huge surplus while many countries in the region lacked the funds they needed for infrastructure; and it knew that restoring the health of the global economy would require large scale cross-border trade and investment.But he added: \u201cThe founding of AIIB is a challenge to the US\u2019s economical and political dominance. It\u2019s also a challenge to the establishments controlled by the US, such as the World Bank.\u201dSome have suggested that AIIB is designed to compete with the US- and Japan-dominated Asia Development Bank (ADB).\u201cChina has tonnes of dollars in reserves and this seems like a good use,\u201d said Stephany Griffith-Jones, an expert on development banks at Columbia University in New York.\u201cThere\u2019s an estimated $1tn of need in infrastructure and sustainable development [in emerging and developing countries]. In a way, the more, the better \u2026 If countries are not happy [with the AIIB], they can still go to the World Bank or ADB.\u201dAmong the unmet needs are an estimated 1.4 billion people without access to electricity, the billion without clean drinking water and 2.6 billion without access to sanitation.Griffith-Jones added that British involvement would also allow the UK to help shape the institution \u2013 but given that China is providing most of the cash, it is unclear how much influence other countries will wield. She suggested that in terms of governance it might have been better if China were not providing quite so much of the funding.Beijing is also a major player in the New Development Bank being set up by the Brics nations \u2013 Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa \u2013 and is providing $40bn for the new Silk Road Fund to improve connectivity across Asia. The president of the World Bank, Jim Yong Kim, told a news conference: \u201cFrom the perspective simply of the need for more infrastructure spending, there\u2019s no doubt that from our perspective, we welcome the entry of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank.\u201dThe White House national security council said the US agreed there was a pressing need to enhance infrastructure investment, but had concerns about whether the AIIB would meet \u201cthe high standards, particularly related to governance, and environmental and social safeguards\u201d of the World Bank and regional development banks.Spratt said: \u201cPeople have been criticising the World Bank on exactly the same issues for decades and through all of that flak there\u2019s been significant learning. \u201cThe new multilateral organisations do have a lot to learn from the World Bank and regional development banks on the environmental and social side \u2013 but [the existing institutions] probably have quite a lot to learn from places like China in terms of how to deal with rapid infrastructure building and so on.\u201d", "tags": ["China", "Australia news", "Banking", "Asia Pacific", "Obama administration", "US foreign policy", "World Bank", "World news", "Business", "Economics", "Global economy", "US news", "Joe Hockey", "Australian economy"], "title": "Support for China-led development bank grows despite US opposition"},{"date": "2015-03-12T16:53:13Z", "country": "china", "content": "A BBC report this week exposed China\u2019s child trafficking problem to a global audience through the touching tale of Xiao Chaohua, a father whose five-year-old son was kidnapped by traffickers in 2007. It\u2019s a story I am intimately familiar with. Although I have never met Xiao, I met dozens of parents in the same situation, while making a film on the same subject.Kidnapping and child trafficking have been a problem in modern China since at least the 1980s. This is often presented as an unintended consequence of the one-child policy, but although that policy has been a factor, the truth is more complicated. The fact that there are many parents willing to sell their offspring to avoid being fined for having too many children has helped perpetuate the trafficking industry, which also trades in kidnapped kids. Additionally, the domestic \u201cadoption\u201d market for kidnapped children is bolstered by the fact that some parents would rather buy a son than pay the fines required to continue having children until they produce one.But traditional attitudes are a significant part of the problem too. At the forefront, of course, is China\u2019s traditional preference for sons (who traditionally stayed and supported parents into their old age) over daughters (who were traditionally married off into other families and were not a source of support). But in some parts of China, there is also a perception that children can be moved to new families based on supply and demand. If you had five children but your cousin had none, for example, it would not have been uncommon for you to give one of your kids to him to raise as his own. This helps explain why in some areas of China even today, a family can appear with a child who clearly isn\u2019t biologically theirs without raising suspicions or inspiring anyone to call the police.Not all kidnapping is related to domestic adoption, though. Children are also kidnapped or lured away from home to be sold into a life on the streets, begging for change or pickpocketing strangers while under the control of adult criminals. The kids are often told that their parents know what\u2019s happening and are getting a cut of the money that they earn (though that\u2019s never the case). Teenage boys are sometimes kidnapped and sold into forced labour, teenage girls can be kidnapped and forced into prostitution. And in at least a few cases, kidnapped children have been sold to Chinese orphanages and subsequently adopted by foreign couples. Because foreign adoptive parents must give orphanages a $5,000 donation when they take home their child and because children are often sold by traffickers for less than that, buying trafficked children can be a profitable enterprise for orphanages if it places them quickly enough.Of course, kidnapping and child trafficking are illegal in China. And the problem has become widespread enough that the country now has a national anti-kidnapping taskforce. Every year, this taskforce carries out high-profile raids and liberates hundreds, sometimes thousands, of kidnapped children. But it is not able to solve these crimes at the rate they\u2019re being committed. Kidnapping cases are extremely difficult for a number of reasons. Trafficking gangs have developed systems whereby children are passed between numerous people, making it difficult for police to track a missing child to their final destination. These gangs have also sometimes bribed local law enforcement or political authorities. And in the internet era, transactions can be carried out online, leaving no physical evidence that a child was sold if the seller covers his electronic tracks well enough.Local law enforcement apathy is another problem. Kidnapping cases need to be addressed quickly \u2013 the longer the child is missing, the lower the chances they\u2019ll be found again. But in China, many local police stations won\u2019t accept a missing persons case unless the person has been missing for 24 hours \u2013 so unless there\u2019s clear evidence of a kidnapping, the traffickers usually have at least a day\u2019s head start. By the time local police even accept the case, the child is likely to be hundreds of miles away. Many parents complain that their local police are uninterested in seriously pursuing missing child cases, which they see as a waste of time and resources since they\u2019re unlikely to be solved.Because there\u2019s no hard data on just how many children are kidnapped each year, it\u2019s hard to say how many cases are solved. While making my film I met dozens of parents, with missing children both male and female ranging from infants to teenagers. I followed several of them as they scoured the country, pouring their hearts and their life savings into finding their kids. But in the years we spent filming, not a single one of them got their child back.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "Adoption", "Sex trade", "Children", "Society"], "title": "Missing, kidnapped, trafficked: China has a problem with its children | Charles Custer"},{"date": "2015-03-06T19:34:54Z", "country": "china", "content": "The report on your website (David Attenborough calls on Chinese president to end ivory trade, theguardian.com, 20 February) of the open letter by animal conservationists and MPs accused China of its ivory trade policy and attributed elephant poaching to \u201cChina\u2019s demand\u201d. Such allegations are misleading and contrary to the facts.The Chinese government attaches great importance to protecting elephants, and China has worked closely with the international community to resolutely fight the illegal ivory trade. It has intensified efforts to fight ivory smuggling and dealt with a large number of cases in recent years.\u00a0The illegal ivory trade cannot be stopped by one or two countries alone. It requires the whole world to come on board, taking concrete steps to enhance law-enforcement and monitoring, educate the public and combine prevention and control measures.China shoulders the dual responsibility of protecting elephants as a natural heritage and carrying forward the intangible cultural heritage of ivory carving. Legal ivory processing in China is to preserve traditional ivory carving arts and crafts. The processing scale is limited with the toughest regulatory and monitoring measures applied. To blame elephant poaching solely on China\u2019s legal ivory imports is unfair. It will mislead the global efforts to protect the elephants and will do no good to the cause of elephant protection.Deyu MiaoEmbassy of the People\u2019s Republic of China, London", "tags": ["Illegal wildlife trade", "Endangered species", "China", "David Attenborough", "Wildlife", "Conservation", "Environment", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China has no truck with ivory smuggling"},{"date": "2015-03-06T08:19:28Z", "country": "china", "content": "A Chinese investor has bought a 5% stake in British holiday group Thomas Cook for \u00a392m as part of a broader expansion into Europe\u2019s tourism sector.Fosun International plans to double its initial investment in the package holiday specialist to 10% \u201cover time\u201d, Thomas Cook said in a statement.Last month, the Chinese conglomerate bought French holiday company Club Med for \u20ac939m (\u00a3679) following a long takeover battle. Thomas Cook and Club Med are expected to work more closely together as a result of the new deal. Thomas Cook shares rose by 13% to 137p in early trading.Peter Fankhauser, chief executive of Thomas Cook, said Fosun\u2019s portfolio of travel investments would allow it to exploit new opportunities for growth abroad. He said: \u201cOur partnership with Fosun is aimed at accelerating our profitable growth strategy by allowing us to further develop ... in our core destination markets, to collaborate with Fosun\u2019s other portfolio businesses particularly in France, and to access the world\u2019s largest and fastest-growing tourism markets with an experienced local partner.\u201dThomas Cook and Fosun will work together to capitalise on the Chinese domestic and international tourism market which is expanding rapidly as the middle classes in the world\u2019s second-largest economy swell. The two companies also plan to jointly develop a hotel portfolio. Wang Qunbin, executive director and president of Fosun, said its stake in Thomas Cook complemented its other recent investments in the travel sector. He added: \u201cThomas Cook\u2019s strong brand heritage and its leading position in the European travel market, together with Fosun\u2019s extensive expertise and resources, will capitalise on the increasing demand for international leisure travel.\u201d", "tags": ["Thomas Cook", "Travel & leisure", "Mergers and acquisitions", "Business", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "Thomas Cook stake sold to China conglomerate"},{"date": "2015-02-06T12:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "Deeba and her friend Zanna find themselves in mortal danger when they discover the city of UnLondon. UnLondon is full of walking and flying buses; houses made from all sorts of materials; ghosts and half-ghosts; not to mention the living umbrellas!Deeba and Zanna make all sorts of strange friends in UnLondon before they leave. Deeba and her group of out-of-this-worldly friends join the battle against the Terrible Cloud Smog. Here starts the dangerous and challenging journey through a forest in a house and black windows to retrieve the UnGun.My favourite character is Yoric Cavea (a bird that lives in a cage on the neck of a human body) because he risks his life for Deeba and because I think he is very funny.I would recommend this book to 10+ but if you want a good long book to read you could try it.\u2022 Buy this book at the Guardian Bookshop.Want to tell the world about a book you've read? Join the site and send us your review!", "tags": ["Children and teenagers", "Books", "Culture", "Children's books: 8-12 years", "Children's fantasy books (children's and teens)"], "title": "Un Lun Dun by China Mi\u00e9ville \u2013 review"},{"date": "2015-01-12T16:50:24Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has adamantly denied the oft-repeated charge that it is building an empire in Africa just as the European powers did in the late 19th century.Beijing is Africa\u2019s biggest trade partner and has frequently been accused of an ethically deaf \u201cresource colonialism\u201d \u2013 extracting the continent\u2019s mineral wealth at knockdown prices to propel its economic growth.But foreign minister Wang Yi, on a five-nation tour of Africa, insisted: \u201cPolitically, we always speak up for African countries and uphold justice. Economically, we help African countries to enhance development to achieve prosperity.\u201cIn China\u2019s exchanges and cooperation with Africa, we want to see mutual benefit and win-win results. I want to make clear one point, that is, China will never follow the track of western colonists and all cooperation with Africa will never come at the expense of the ecology, environment or long-term interests of Africa.\u201dThe comments were made to Chinese Central Television while Wang was in Kenya, where he met President Uhuru Kenyatta on Saturday. Chinese firms are carrying out a $653m (\u00a3430m) expansion of the main airport in the capital, Nairobi.China\u2019s rivalry with the west on the African stage has been much debated, but it is rare for one side to draw comparison so publicly. Last year, at the biggest gathering of African leaders ever held in Washington, US president Barack Obama said pointedly, \u201cWe don\u2019t look to Africa simply for its natural resources,\u201d but declined to mention China by name.Only in a diplomatic cable, published via WikiLeaks in 2010 and not intended for public consumption, did a US official admit: \u201cChina is a very aggressive and pernicious economic competitor with no morals. China is not in Africa for altruistic reasons. China is in Africa for China primarily.\u201dPreviously, Beijing has said its cooperation with African nations ranges across agriculture, health and infrastructure-related projects from schools to stadiums. The $200m headquarters of the Africa Union in Addis Ababa was a present and a \u201csymbol of deepening relations\u201d.China maintains that more than half its foreign aid \u2013 more than $14bn between 2010 and 2012 \u2013 goes to Africa. It says the support comes with no strings attached and that it will never interfere in countries\u2019 domestic affairs. But by default, critics argue, this means it effectively shores up the rule of Angola\u2019s Jos\u00e9 Eduardo dos Santos, Sudan\u2019s Omar al-Bashir and Zimbabwe\u2019s Robert Mugabe, three of Africa\u2019s most tenaciously authoritarian rulers.Last month, however, Beijing announced that it will send 700 combat troops to join the UN peacekeeping mission in South Sudan, signalling an unusually robust intervention. Speaking to reporters in Sudan on Sunday, Wang defended China\u2019s mediation efforts in South Sudan, rejecting the claim that it was acting out of self-interest after investing heavily in oil. \u201cChina\u2019s mediation of South Sudan issues is completely the responsibility and duty of a responsible power, and not because of China\u2019s own interests,\u201d the minister said.Wang\u2019s itinerary spans Kenya, Cameroon, Equatorial Guinea, Sudan and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. ", "tags": ["Trade and development", "Governance", "Global development", "China", "Africa"], "title": "China denies building empire in Africa"},{"date": "2015-03-30T12:48:37Z", "country": "china", "content": "Rolls-Royce has signed a deal with Air China to supply its Trent 1000 engines for 15 Boeing Dreamliner aircraft.The company said the deal would add around $1bn (\u00a3670m) to its order book, and build on its strong relationship with the airline. The company received a $1.8bn engine order from Air China in 2010 and the airline currently flies 49 Trent 700-powered aircraft. The news lifted Rolls\u2019s share price by nearly 1% to 955p.However, Rolls-Royce\u2019s relationships in the region are not limited to Air China. The 2010 order followed a separate deal with China Eastern Airlines, made during David Cameron\u2019s trade mission. Rolls-Royce states that it has \u201cbeen actively involved in the rapid growth of Chinese civil aviation\u201d and has operations across China. The engineering group supplies an estimated 56% of engines in China, as of 2010.The deal comes after a disappointing year for the group, with a series of profit warnings and a number of job cuts. Last week, it announced 200 redundancies in Scotland as part of a plan to reduce headcount by 2,600 worldwide.The order follows a deal earlier this month to supply Trent 700 worth $300m to Turkish Airlines.\u201cThe second sales deal in a month for Rolls\u2019s Trent engines is a start in the right direction to repairing the investor damage from several profit warnings over the past year,\u201d said Lewis Sturdy, a London Capital Group dealer. ", "tags": ["Rolls-Royce", "China", "Asia Pacific", "Business", "Air transport", "Airline industry", "World news"], "title": "Rolls-Royce signs $1bn engine deal with Air China"},{"date": "2015-03-25T17:03:45Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has rejected calls from Britain, the US ambassador to the UN and others to release five feminist activists detained just before International Women\u2019s Day. Hua Chunying, a spokeswoman for the country\u2019s foreign ministry, said she had no specific details about the cases, but insisted: \u201cNo one has the right to ask China to release relevant persons, so we hope that relevant people will stop interfering in China\u2019s judicial sovereignty in such a manner.\u201dThe women have been held for nearly three weeks on charges of disturbing public order. They had planned to distribute stickers calling for action against sexual harassment. Beijing police told Associated Press that they too had no information on the cases. In the UK, a Foreign Office spokesperson  expressed deep concern about the detentions and said: \u201cWe are particularly concerned by reports that they have been denied due legal process, and at least one, Wu Rongrong, denied access to adequate medical care.\u201cWe urge China to release all those detained for exercising their rights to freedom of expression, in line with China\u2019s constitution and international human rights commitments.\u201d Related: Women's human rights defenders under threat \u2013 podcast Wu has hepatitis B and spent the month before her arrest in hospital, but was reportedly denied medication for more than a week prior to her transfer to the detention centre\u2019s medical facility. Her former lawyer Wang Fei said she was experiencing pain in the liver area and had blood in her phlegm. Before her transfer, she told Wang that she had been forced to sleep on a concrete floor and denied regular medication by authorities who said her condition did not require treatment. The US-based group Human Rights in China said another activist, Wang Man, was also in the medical centre after developing a heart condition following hours of interrogation.While the past two years have seen a marked increase in detentions and convictions of activists and dissidents, there is particular shock at the decision to criminally detain the five. Several of them had a record of highlighting issues facing women in imaginative ways which seemed to be within the limits of official tolerance. Sophie Richardson, China director at Human Rights Watch, said: \u201cWhat they were planning to do was hand out leaflets and put out stickers on public transport to raise awareness of sexual harassment.\u201cThey were not planning to mobilise hundreds or thousands of people, go to government offices [to protest] or even form a new NGO or political party or politically challenge the party or the government. They were essentially planning to carry out public education on a subject that does get addressed in the official media to some extent.\u201cIt shows how allergic the government is to any kind of activity, outreach or encouragement of advocacy by any independent voices.\u201d Related: Meet the Chinese women standing up to inequality If charged and convicted, Wu, Wang and the other three detainees \u2013 Wei Tingting, Zheng Churan, also known as \u201cDatu\u201d or \u201cBig Rabbit\u201d, and Li Tingting, better known as Li Maizi \u2013 could face up to three years in prison. Four others detained at the same time were released shortly afterwards. Yan Xin, Li\u2019s lawyer, said: \u201cTheir action does not constitute any violation of law, and the police are certainly wrong in detaining them.\u201dOn Friday, the US ambassador to the UN, Samantha Power, said the charge of \u201ccreating a disturbance\u201d was a pretext for stifling their attempts to tackle pressing social problems. She said: \u201cIf China is committed to advancing the rights of women, then it should be working to address the issues raised by these women\u2019s rights activists \u2013 not silencing them.\u201dThe EU has also called for their release, saying it expected the Chinese authorities to let them go without delay. Police raided the Beijing office of public health and social justice NGO Yirenping in the early hours of Tuesday, Human Rights Watch said. The detained women had supported or worked with the group and authorities have sharply increased scrutiny of non-profit groups recently.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "Feminism", "Women", "International Women's Day", "World news", "Life and style"], "title": "China rejects international pleas to release five feminists from jail"},{"date": "2015-03-15T17:35:28Z", "country": "china", "content": "China will struggle to meet its growth target of around 7%, but still has the means to shore up its economy, the country\u2019s premier, Li Keqiang, said on Sunday. \u201cIn recent years, we have not taken any strong, short-term stimulus policies \u2026 We still have more tools in the toolbox,\u201d Li told his annual press conference, marking the end of major political meetings in Beijing. Related: China lowers growth target to 7% as it fights 'deep-seated' economic problems Analysts suggest that China, which saw 7.4% growth last year, will probably miss its target again. Authorities are hammering home the need to adjust to a \u201cnew normal\u201d of lower growth as the country seeks more balanced development. \u201cThe pain of reform is still there. Actually the pain is becoming more acute,\u201d Li said.\u201cThis is not nail clipping, this is like cutting off one\u2019s limb with a sword and we have to do it despite the pain.\u201dQuestions at the press conference are pre-screened and it rarely offers major political revelations: many of Li\u2019s remarks echoed those he has made in previous years. But, like the spring meetings of the largely rubber-stamp parliament and the country\u2019s political consultative body, it helps to indicate the government\u2019s plans and progress. The themes highlighted over the sessions include:The meetings were overshadowed by the runaway success of smog documentary Under the Dome, praised by the environment minister - but then deleted by censors. Related: China takes environmental documentary that went viral off the web David Kelly, of research and advisory company China Policy, said the \u201cevident bungle\u201d reflected a lack of talent at the executive officer level: \u201cIt could not have been produced and shown without some major approvals \u2026 But public reaction went beyond what they were prepared for.\u201dLi said authorities were determined to tackle pollution, adding: \u201cThe progress we have made still falls short of the expectations of our people.\u201dShi Lei, an environmental economics professor at the Renmin University of China, noted that Beijing had increased funding for environmental protection and introduced action plans to tackle air and water pollution. But local governments, industries and social finance were still lagging, he said. Zeng Kanghua, a fiscal studies expert at the Central University of Finance and Economics, warned that environmental spending was the easiest cut for policy makers if there was pressure to reduce spending. The government laid out plans to raise the statutory retirement age gradually, facing the \u201cdemographic timebomb\u201d China faces with fewer young people entering the workforce and a growing number of pensioners.\u201cOnce [the public] see the urgency of this change, they will come around,\u201d said Yao Yang, dean of the National School of Development at Peking University, adding that China should also sell off the assets of state owned enterprises to fund pensions and stop encouraging people to retire early.Yang Lixiong, an expert on social security at Renmin University, said life expectancy had soared since the retirement age was set in the 1950s. He argued that population policies must also change so that families can have more than one child.Fu Ying, spokeswoman for the National People\u2019s Congress, acknowledged the benefits that foreign non-governmental organisations had brought, but said China needed to better regulate them for national security reasons, increasing concern over a new law being drafted.Non-profits fear that stricter rules will make their work far more difficult and may force them to close. Under the as yet unpublished bill, the public security ministry - rather than the civil affairs ministry - would register them. The law would reportedly prevent them opening more than one office, raising funds locally, or funding projects contrary to \u201cChinese society\u2019s moral customs\u201d.Authorities highlighted the continuing crackdown with comments on several major cases and announced the investigation of Yunnan deputy party chief Qiu He on Sunday \u2013 just after he appeared at the NPC.Statements that the Dalai Lama must be reincarnated \u2013 the exiled Tibetan spiritual leader has hinted he might not be \u2013 and that the atheist Communist party will decide on the next incarnation were widely reported. \u201cDecision-making power over the reincarnation \u2026 and over the end or survival of this lineage, resides in the central government of China,\u201d said Zhu Weiqun, who heads the ethnic and religious affairs committee of the Chinese People\u2019s Political Consultative conference.But Robert Barnett, a Tibet expert at Columbia University, portrayed that as a face-saving restatement of a longstanding position and drew attention to proposals at the CPPCC that monasteries should play a role in society and that changes are needed to longstanding quotas limiting the number of monks per institution. He said previous remarks from Zhu suggested there was a new nationalities policy, adding: \u201cThe Panchen Lama\u2019s [proposals] were the only sign [yet] that tells us what a new policy might mean.\u201d", "tags": ["China", "Li Keqiang", "Pollution", "Asia Pacific", "Tibet", "Environment", "World news"], "title": "China will struggle to meet growth target, says premier"},{"date": "2015-03-14T03:31:26Z", "country": "china", "content": "Support for a Chinese-led development bank is growing despite US opposition, with Australia indicating that it could join the UK and New Zealand as a founding member. Analysts predicted that others would follow Britain\u2019s surprise decision to put its weight behind the new $50bn institution, despite the US making its irritation clear in an unusual public rebuke. \u201cNow the US\u2019s closest ally has been emboldened to do this, there\u2019s very little reason for others not to, because the rubicon has been crossed. If you\u2019re looking at South Korea and Australia, it\u2019s a bit of a no-brainer,\u201d said Stephen Spratt, a research fellow at the UK-based Institute of Development Studies.The Asia Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB), which is designed to provide funds to the Asia-Pacific region, is viewed with suspicion in Washington, where it is seen as a rival to the World Bank and a possible instrument of Chinese soft power in the region.One US official told the Financial Times: \u201cWe are wary about a trend toward constant accommodation of China, which is not the best way to engage a rising power.\u201d Related: US anger at Britain joining Chinese-led investment bank AIIB But a spokesman for the British prime minister brushed aside US criticism, saying: \u201cThere will be times when we take a different approach \u2026 We think that it\u2019s in the UK\u2019s national interest.\u201dAustralia\u2019s finance minister said the UK and New Zealand decisions reflected improvements in the governance structure China was proposing. \u201cThis is something that will obviously be taken into account by the government over the next few weeks as we continue our dialogue with those people behind the bank,\u201d said Joe Hockey, the treasurer.The US has reportedly lobbied Australia, South Korea and others to steer clear of the new institution. But 28 countries are planning to participate, with Indonesia also among those joining early enthusiasts such as India, Pakistan and Singapore. The deadline to become a founding member is the end of this month.A Chinese foreign ministry spokesman, Hong Lei, said Beijing welcomed the UK decision, adding that the AIIB would complement existing development banks. Zhao Changhui, a senior economist with the Export-Import Bank of China, said China had proposed the AIIB because it understood the importance of infrastructure in light of its own development; it had a huge surplus while many countries in the region lacked the funds they needed for infrastructure; and it knew that restoring the health of the global economy would require large scale cross-border trade and investment.But he added: \u201cThe founding of AIIB is a challenge to the US\u2019s economical and political dominance. It\u2019s also a challenge to the establishments controlled by the US, such as the World Bank.\u201dSome have suggested that AIIB is designed to compete with the US- and Japan-dominated Asia Development Bank (ADB).\u201cChina has tonnes of dollars in reserves and this seems like a good use,\u201d said Stephany Griffith-Jones, an expert on development banks at Columbia University in New York.\u201cThere\u2019s an estimated $1tn of need in infrastructure and sustainable development [in emerging and developing countries]. In a way, the more, the better \u2026 If countries are not happy [with the AIIB], they can still go to the World Bank or ADB.\u201dAmong the unmet needs are an estimated 1.4 billion people without access to electricity, the billion without clean drinking water and 2.6 billion without access to sanitation.Griffith-Jones added that British involvement would also allow the UK to help shape the institution \u2013 but given that China is providing most of the cash, it is unclear how much influence other countries will wield. She suggested that in terms of governance it might have been better if China were not providing quite so much of the funding.Beijing is also a major player in the New Development Bank being set up by the Brics nations \u2013 Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa \u2013 and is providing $40bn for the new Silk Road Fund to improve connectivity across Asia. The president of the World Bank, Jim Yong Kim, told a news conference: \u201cFrom the perspective simply of the need for more infrastructure spending, there\u2019s no doubt that from our perspective, we welcome the entry of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank.\u201dThe White House national security council said the US agreed there was a pressing need to enhance infrastructure investment, but had concerns about whether the AIIB would meet \u201cthe high standards, particularly related to governance, and environmental and social safeguards\u201d of the World Bank and regional development banks.Spratt said: \u201cPeople have been criticising the World Bank on exactly the same issues for decades and through all of that flak there\u2019s been significant learning. \u201cThe new multilateral organisations do have a lot to learn from the World Bank and regional development banks on the environmental and social side \u2013 but [the existing institutions] probably have quite a lot to learn from places like China in terms of how to deal with rapid infrastructure building and so on.\u201d", "tags": ["China", "Australia news", "Banking", "Asia Pacific", "Obama administration", "US foreign policy", "World Bank", "World news", "Business", "Economics", "Global economy", "US news", "Joe Hockey", "Australian economy"], "title": "Support for China-led development bank grows despite US opposition"},{"date": "2015-03-12T16:53:13Z", "country": "china", "content": "A BBC report this week exposed China\u2019s child trafficking problem to a global audience through the touching tale of Xiao Chaohua, a father whose five-year-old son was kidnapped by traffickers in 2007. It\u2019s a story I am intimately familiar with. Although I have never met Xiao, I met dozens of parents in the same situation, while making a film on the same subject.Kidnapping and child trafficking have been a problem in modern China since at least the 1980s. This is often presented as an unintended consequence of the one-child policy, but although that policy has been a factor, the truth is more complicated. The fact that there are many parents willing to sell their offspring to avoid being fined for having too many children has helped perpetuate the trafficking industry, which also trades in kidnapped kids. Additionally, the domestic \u201cadoption\u201d market for kidnapped children is bolstered by the fact that some parents would rather buy a son than pay the fines required to continue having children until they produce one.But traditional attitudes are a significant part of the problem too. At the forefront, of course, is China\u2019s traditional preference for sons (who traditionally stayed and supported parents into their old age) over daughters (who were traditionally married off into other families and were not a source of support). But in some parts of China, there is also a perception that children can be moved to new families based on supply and demand. If you had five children but your cousin had none, for example, it would not have been uncommon for you to give one of your kids to him to raise as his own. This helps explain why in some areas of China even today, a family can appear with a child who clearly isn\u2019t biologically theirs without raising suspicions or inspiring anyone to call the police.Not all kidnapping is related to domestic adoption, though. Children are also kidnapped or lured away from home to be sold into a life on the streets, begging for change or pickpocketing strangers while under the control of adult criminals. The kids are often told that their parents know what\u2019s happening and are getting a cut of the money that they earn (though that\u2019s never the case). Teenage boys are sometimes kidnapped and sold into forced labour, teenage girls can be kidnapped and forced into prostitution. And in at least a few cases, kidnapped children have been sold to Chinese orphanages and subsequently adopted by foreign couples. Because foreign adoptive parents must give orphanages a $5,000 donation when they take home their child and because children are often sold by traffickers for less than that, buying trafficked children can be a profitable enterprise for orphanages if it places them quickly enough.Of course, kidnapping and child trafficking are illegal in China. And the problem has become widespread enough that the country now has a national anti-kidnapping taskforce. Every year, this taskforce carries out high-profile raids and liberates hundreds, sometimes thousands, of kidnapped children. But it is not able to solve these crimes at the rate they\u2019re being committed. Kidnapping cases are extremely difficult for a number of reasons. Trafficking gangs have developed systems whereby children are passed between numerous people, making it difficult for police to track a missing child to their final destination. These gangs have also sometimes bribed local law enforcement or political authorities. And in the internet era, transactions can be carried out online, leaving no physical evidence that a child was sold if the seller covers his electronic tracks well enough.Local law enforcement apathy is another problem. Kidnapping cases need to be addressed quickly \u2013 the longer the child is missing, the lower the chances they\u2019ll be found again. But in China, many local police stations won\u2019t accept a missing persons case unless the person has been missing for 24 hours \u2013 so unless there\u2019s clear evidence of a kidnapping, the traffickers usually have at least a day\u2019s head start. By the time local police even accept the case, the child is likely to be hundreds of miles away. Many parents complain that their local police are uninterested in seriously pursuing missing child cases, which they see as a waste of time and resources since they\u2019re unlikely to be solved.Because there\u2019s no hard data on just how many children are kidnapped each year, it\u2019s hard to say how many cases are solved. While making my film I met dozens of parents, with missing children both male and female ranging from infants to teenagers. I followed several of them as they scoured the country, pouring their hearts and their life savings into finding their kids. But in the years we spent filming, not a single one of them got their child back.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "Adoption", "Sex trade", "Children", "Society"], "title": "Missing, kidnapped, trafficked: China has a problem with its children | Charles Custer"},{"date": "2015-03-12T10:48:07Z", "country": "china", "content": "Global box office rose by just 1% in 2014, with dwindling audiences in the US propped up by strong growth in Asia.Americans seem increasingly indifferent to their homegrown product, with a fall of 5% in cinema revenues according to the annual report from the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA). The downturn came despite a rise in the number of films released. But China is enthusiastically embracing both Hollywood and Asian films, with revenues there hitting a record high of $4.8bn. Related: China will be the world's biggest film market by 2020 That\u2019s still some way off the $10.4bn spend in the US, but it\u2019s an increase of 34% on 2013\u2019s figure, proving China is a market with massive significance. Ernst and Young recently predicted that China would overtake the US as the world\u2019s biggest film market in 2020, but perhaps it could be even sooner. February became the first month ever where China outspent the US, by $10m, driven in part by lunar new year celebrations.China\u2019s growth is being generated by an ever-expanding number of screens, with 25,000 being added in the next five years, and by the increasing number of foreign films authorised for release.The country\u2019s enthusiasm for Hollywood films can massively increase their profitability, or help flop movies turn into hits. Transformers: Age of Extinction earned more in China than the US last year, helping it become the highest-grossing film of the year, while relative failures like Robocop, Edge of Tomorrow and Penguins of Madagascar were helped into profitability by strong Chinese showings.The 1% rise is a marked slowdown, with the industry having enjoyed four and six percent increases in the previous two years. But MPAA chairman Chris Dodd put a positive spin on the 2014 report, saying: \u201cThis is not just an American story of success, but a worldwide story about the value of craft, creativity and the importance of a story well told. We tell stories that transcend borders and transform individual experiences into shared ones. 2014 was a strong year, and 2015 is starting out tremendously, with box office in the US/Canada up 11 percent in the first two months of this year.\u201d", "tags": ["Film", "Film industry", "China", "US news", "Business", "Culture"], "title": "Global box office flatlines,\u00a0but China shows strong growth"},{"date": "2015-06-13T11:00:07Z", "country": "china", "content": "Joyce\u2019s image in China holds a strange fascination in the west. When the first third of Finnegans Wake, his last and most notoriously difficult book, was published in Shanghai in 2013, newspapers in Britain and America greeted the announcement as a momentous event. Certainly, the salient details of the story are arresting: 72 years had passed since the publication of the novel in London in 1941; seven years had elapsed since Dai Congrong had agreed to undertake the formidable task of translation; and when the book appeared between luxuriously silky dark-green boards, heavy with pages of explanatory notes, it became an immediate commercial success.By what miracles of linguistic mastery and literary imagination could Chinese characters be made to capture Joyce\u2019s mind-bending manipulations of the alphabet? By what subtleties of cross-cultural understanding could the specificities of Ireland and its mythologies be translated for a Chinese audience? Could the translation be trusted if it made Finnegans Wake a bestseller?When Ulysses was first published in Paris in 1922, Joyce responded with delight to news that an order had been placed from China: \u201cTen copies to Peking!\u201d he exclaimed. Ulysses, even more than Finnegans Wake, is alive in China today. Two Joyce-themed stage productions have recently toured major Chinese cities. Both are the brainchildren of Andy Arnold, the artistic director of Glasgow\u2019s Tron theatre, and form part of a programme of performances for a UK-China Year of Cultural Exchange. The first, A Journey Round James Joyce, offers an elegantly devised biographical reimagining of Joyce\u2019s life in Trieste between 1905 and 1915. The second, Ulysses, is a revival of the Tron\u2019s successful 2012 production of Dermot Bolger\u2019s adaptation (A Dublin Bloom, 1996). They performed to full and enthusiastic houses in Beijing, Shanghai, Hangzhou and Jinan.For much of the 20th century, Joyce\u2019s name was not one to be lightly pronounced or printed in China. Even as late as 1982 \u2013 as Jin Di, Ulysses\u2019s first translator, reports \u2013 a state official commenting on the centenary of Joyce\u2019s birth described the world of Leopold Bloom as \u201cshocking in its pettiness, obscurity, ugliness, and confusion\u201d and as emblematic of \u201cthe decadence of the modern bourgeoisie\u201d.Yet by 1996, not one but two versions of Ulysses were available to Chinese readers. The novel sold very well, and western newspapers, as they would later about Finnegans Wake, commented on Ulysses\u2019s bestseller status in China with a mixture of excitement and bemusement. But the book\u2019s journey had in a sense only begun. Works of such length and complexity take time to percolate into a nation\u2019s living rooms and classrooms. These days, if you ask about James Joyce \u2013 or \u201cZhanmusi Qiaoyisi\u201d, as his name is transliterated in Chinese pinyin \u2013 in a Chinese bookshop you will be led to shelves lined with relevant volumes. The vast five-floor Xinhua bookshop on Wangfujing, a crowded shopping avenue just round the corner from Tiananmen Square, currently stocks no fewer than four different editions of Ulysses \u2013 one in English, and three in Chinese. Copies of Dubliners, A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man, Exiles and Finnegans Wake are also available.The tastes and identifications of China\u2019s expanding and dynamic middle class are part of the explanation for this renaissance. Where Joyce stood for bourgeois corruption only three decades ago, he now stands for cosmopolitan sophistication. Chinese people have an affectionate epithet for those particularly enamoured of the western way of life and its consumer comforts: they call such internationally minded bourgeois \u201cxiaozi\u201d \u2013 literally, \u201clittle capitalists\u201d. It is to a large degree such educated \u201cxiaozi\u201d who are driving the success of Arnold\u2019s plays.A Journey Round James Joyce was conceived specifically with China in mind. Performed in Chinese by Chinese actors, the play conjures Joyce and Nora Barnacle\u2019s departure from Ireland, Joyce\u2019s carousing in the bars of Trieste, the language lessons he gave to make a living, Nora\u2019s housekeeping and henpecking, his writing and its connections to his experiences in exile. The script consists of an ingenious collage of quotations assembled from many corners of Joyce\u2019s works and letters. In its departures from biographical fact and disruptions of chronological sequence, A Journey Round James Joyce bears some likeness to the theatrical fantasy by which Tom Stoppard imagined Joyce\u2019s life in Z\u00fcrich in Travesties in 1974. Yet the tone of this piece is quite different, fluctuating between broad comedy and romance, tension and melodrama.To western eyes, the sight and sound of a Chinese James Joyce and Nora Barnacle is completely disorienting (Joyce\u2019s recognisable glasses are at first the only obvious echo of a familiar story) and a thought-provoking reminder of the extent of the differences translations have to negotiate. As the play unfolds, snippets of the Irish songs and Italian operas Joyce loved (\u201cDown by the Salley Gardens\u201d, Madame Butterfly) add to the international ambiance of the Journey. The costumes and the exquisitely minimalist set are the fruits of Arnold\u2019s collaboration with Beijing\u2019s Xinchan theatre.Arnold\u2019s Ulysses is a wilder piece of theatre. Performed in English with Chinese surtitles, the play stages a recapitulation of all the novel\u2019s best-known moments \u2013 a \u201cgreatest hits\u201d formula. But the play makes great demands on anyone encountering Joyce\u2019s world for the first time: it would be fairly difficult, without prior knowledge of the book, and without a sense of the Dublin world in which it is rooted, to make head or tail of the spectacular whirligig of scenes by which Arnold recreates the events of Bloomsday.The play inverts the chronology of Joyce\u2019s book by presenting the events of 16 June 1904 as the stuff of Bloom\u2019s dreams after his return to the marital bed in the early hours of the following morning. The re-enactment of the key moments of his day is interwoven with excerpts from his wife Molly\u2019s famous closing soliloquy.What the Tron emphatically brings to Ulysses is the inventive energy and the daring to engage with a classic text. Joyce\u2019s odyssey in China, and the drama of east and west captured in its moving hall of mirrors, continues.", "tags": ["James Joyce", "Books", "Culture", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Radio", "Television", "BBC", "Media", "Television & radio"], "title": "James Joyce \u2013 big in China"},{"date": "2015-06-13T11:00:07Z", "country": "china", "content": "Joyce\u2019s image in China holds a strange fascination in the west. When the first third of Finnegans Wake, his last and most notoriously difficult book, was published in Shanghai in 2013, newspapers in Britain and America greeted the announcement as a momentous event. Certainly, the salient details of the story are arresting: 72 years had passed since the publication of the novel in London in 1941; seven years had elapsed since Dai Congrong had agreed to undertake the formidable task of translation; and when the book appeared between luxuriously silky dark-green boards, heavy with pages of explanatory notes, it became an immediate commercial success.By what miracles of linguistic mastery and literary imagination could Chinese characters be made to capture Joyce\u2019s mind-bending manipulations of the alphabet? By what subtleties of cross-cultural understanding could the specificities of Ireland and its mythologies be translated for a Chinese audience? Could the translation be trusted if it made Finnegans Wake a bestseller?When Ulysses was first published in Paris in 1922, Joyce responded with delight to news that an order had been placed from China: \u201cTen copies to Peking!\u201d he exclaimed. Ulysses, even more than Finnegans Wake, is alive in China today. Two Joyce-themed stage productions have recently toured major Chinese cities. Both are the brainchildren of Andy Arnold, the artistic director of Glasgow\u2019s Tron theatre, and form part of a programme of performances for a UK-China Year of Cultural Exchange. The first, A Journey Round James Joyce, offers an elegantly devised biographical reimagining of Joyce\u2019s life in Trieste between 1905 and 1915. The second, Ulysses, is a revival of the Tron\u2019s successful 2012 production of Dermot Bolger\u2019s adaptation (A Dublin Bloom, 1996). They performed to full and enthusiastic houses in Beijing, Shanghai, Hangzhou and Jinan.For much of the 20th century, Joyce\u2019s name was not one to be lightly pronounced or printed in China. Even as late as 1982 \u2013 as Jin Di, Ulysses\u2019s first translator, reports \u2013 a state official commenting on the centenary of Joyce\u2019s birth described the world of Leopold Bloom as \u201cshocking in its pettiness, obscurity, ugliness, and confusion\u201d and as emblematic of \u201cthe decadence of the modern bourgeoisie\u201d.Yet by 1996, not one but two versions of Ulysses were available to Chinese readers. The novel sold very well, and western newspapers, as they would later about Finnegans Wake, commented on Ulysses\u2019s bestseller status in China with a mixture of excitement and bemusement. But the book\u2019s journey had in a sense only begun. Works of such length and complexity take time to percolate into a nation\u2019s living rooms and classrooms. These days, if you ask about James Joyce \u2013 or \u201cZhanmusi Qiaoyisi\u201d, as his name is transliterated in Chinese pinyin \u2013 in a Chinese bookshop you will be led to shelves lined with relevant volumes. The vast five-floor Xinhua bookshop on Wangfujing, a crowded shopping avenue just round the corner from Tiananmen Square, currently stocks no fewer than four different editions of Ulysses \u2013 one in English, and three in Chinese. Copies of Dubliners, A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man, Exiles and Finnegans Wake are also available.The tastes and identifications of China\u2019s expanding and dynamic middle class are part of the explanation for this renaissance. Where Joyce stood for bourgeois corruption only three decades ago, he now stands for cosmopolitan sophistication. Chinese people have an affectionate epithet for those particularly enamoured of the western way of life and its consumer comforts: they call such internationally minded bourgeois \u201cxiaozi\u201d \u2013 literally, \u201clittle capitalists\u201d. It is to a large degree such educated \u201cxiaozi\u201d who are driving the success of Arnold\u2019s plays.A Journey Round James Joyce was conceived specifically with China in mind. Performed in Chinese by Chinese actors, the play conjures Joyce and Nora Barnacle\u2019s departure from Ireland, Joyce\u2019s carousing in the bars of Trieste, the language lessons he gave to make a living, Nora\u2019s housekeeping and henpecking, his writing and its connections to his experiences in exile. The script consists of an ingenious collage of quotations assembled from many corners of Joyce\u2019s works and letters. In its departures from biographical fact and disruptions of chronological sequence, A Journey Round James Joyce bears some likeness to the theatrical fantasy by which Tom Stoppard imagined Joyce\u2019s life in Z\u00fcrich in Travesties in 1974. Yet the tone of this piece is quite different, fluctuating between broad comedy and romance, tension and melodrama.To western eyes, the sight and sound of a Chinese James Joyce and Nora Barnacle is completely disorienting (Joyce\u2019s recognisable glasses are at first the only obvious echo of a familiar story) and a thought-provoking reminder of the extent of the differences translations have to negotiate. As the play unfolds, snippets of the Irish songs and Italian operas Joyce loved (\u201cDown by the Salley Gardens\u201d, Madame Butterfly) add to the international ambiance of the Journey. The costumes and the exquisitely minimalist set are the fruits of Arnold\u2019s collaboration with Beijing\u2019s Xinchan theatre.Arnold\u2019s Ulysses is a wilder piece of theatre. Performed in English with Chinese surtitles, the play stages a recapitulation of all the novel\u2019s best-known moments \u2013 a \u201cgreatest hits\u201d formula. But the play makes great demands on anyone encountering Joyce\u2019s world for the first time: it would be fairly difficult, without prior knowledge of the book, and without a sense of the Dublin world in which it is rooted, to make head or tail of the spectacular whirligig of scenes by which Arnold recreates the events of Bloomsday.The play inverts the chronology of Joyce\u2019s book by presenting the events of 16 June 1904 as the stuff of Bloom\u2019s dreams after his return to the marital bed in the early hours of the following morning. The re-enactment of the key moments of his day is interwoven with excerpts from his wife Molly\u2019s famous closing soliloquy.What the Tron emphatically brings to Ulysses is the inventive energy and the daring to engage with a classic text. Joyce\u2019s odyssey in China, and the drama of east and west captured in its moving hall of mirrors, continues.", "tags": ["James Joyce", "Books", "Culture", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Radio", "Television", "BBC", "Media", "Television & radio"], "title": "James Joyce \u2013 big in China"},{"date": "2015-05-13T12:43:05Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has warned the United States not to take \u201crisky or provocative actions\u201d in a dispute over territorial claims in the South China Sea, as Washington contemplates a stronger stance in the area.The US defence secretary, Ash Carter, concerned about China\u2019s rapid expansion of artificial islands, has asked staff to look at options including sending ships and planes closer to reefs claimed by Beijing, the Wall Street Journal reported. China\u2019s foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told a news conference: \u201cWe are seriously concerned about the remarks on this issue by the US, and we think the US needs to make a clarification.\u201dShe said China respected the freedom of navigation for international traffic in the area, but that did not allow warships and military planes to enter territorial waters and airspace.\u201cChina will resolutely safeguard its own sovereignty. We call on the relevant parties to be cautious with their words and actions, and not take any risky or provocative actions,\u201d Hua said.The US has long insisted that it does not take sides in the complex territorial disputes in the region, but there have been growing tensions in recent months over China\u2019s aggressive land reclamation projects in the Spratly Islands.Several regional powers including the Philippines and Vietnam have overlapping claims to the area, mostly uninhabited reefs and atolls that lie in one of the world\u2019s busiest shipping routes.For years those claims were contested mostly by ships or between officials, but in recent years Beijing decided to reinforce its claims by expanding its territory. Since last year, building projects have quadrupled the size of artificial islands in Chinese-claimed areas, to 2,000 hectares. The projects include an airstrip that could be large enough for fighter jets and surveillance aircraft, the Wall Street Journal quoted the defence intelligence provider IHS Jane\u2019s as saying.The report said the change in US stance would involve flying over and sailing close to artificial islands that were only reefs before the latest building project. China says its territorial waters extend for 12 nautical miles from the land, a line that the US has challenged verbally but until now ordered its navy to respect.Some regional allies want the US to take a stronger stance in challenging China, while others fear that ratcheting up the pressure only raises the risk of military confrontation and could encourage Beijing to speed up building work even more, the report said.The White House would have to sign off on any change in the US posture, and the Wall Street Journal said it had declined to comment.Luna Lin contributed research to this article", "tags": ["China", "US foreign policy", "US news", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China urges caution from US over South China Sea disputes"},{"date": "2015-06-13T11:00:07Z", "country": "china", "content": "Joyce\u2019s image in China holds a strange fascination in the west. When the first third of Finnegans Wake, his last and most notoriously difficult book, was published in Shanghai in 2013, newspapers in Britain and America greeted the announcement as a momentous event. Certainly, the salient details of the story are arresting: 72 years had passed since the publication of the novel in London in 1941; seven years had elapsed since Dai Congrong had agreed to undertake the formidable task of translation; and when the book appeared between luxuriously silky dark-green boards, heavy with pages of explanatory notes, it became an immediate commercial success.By what miracles of linguistic mastery and literary imagination could Chinese characters be made to capture Joyce\u2019s mind-bending manipulations of the alphabet? By what subtleties of cross-cultural understanding could the specificities of Ireland and its mythologies be translated for a Chinese audience? Could the translation be trusted if it made Finnegans Wake a bestseller?When Ulysses was first published in Paris in 1922, Joyce responded with delight to news that an order had been placed from China: \u201cTen copies to Peking!\u201d he exclaimed. Ulysses, even more than Finnegans Wake, is alive in China today. Two Joyce-themed stage productions have recently toured major Chinese cities. Both are the brainchildren of Andy Arnold, the artistic director of Glasgow\u2019s Tron theatre, and form part of a programme of performances for a UK-China Year of Cultural Exchange. The first, A Journey Round James Joyce, offers an elegantly devised biographical reimagining of Joyce\u2019s life in Trieste between 1905 and 1915. The second, Ulysses, is a revival of the Tron\u2019s successful 2012 production of Dermot Bolger\u2019s adaptation (A Dublin Bloom, 1996). They performed to full and enthusiastic houses in Beijing, Shanghai, Hangzhou and Jinan.For much of the 20th century, Joyce\u2019s name was not one to be lightly pronounced or printed in China. Even as late as 1982 \u2013 as Jin Di, Ulysses\u2019s first translator, reports \u2013 a state official commenting on the centenary of Joyce\u2019s birth described the world of Leopold Bloom as \u201cshocking in its pettiness, obscurity, ugliness, and confusion\u201d and as emblematic of \u201cthe decadence of the modern bourgeoisie\u201d.Yet by 1996, not one but two versions of Ulysses were available to Chinese readers. The novel sold very well, and western newspapers, as they would later about Finnegans Wake, commented on Ulysses\u2019s bestseller status in China with a mixture of excitement and bemusement. But the book\u2019s journey had in a sense only begun. Works of such length and complexity take time to percolate into a nation\u2019s living rooms and classrooms. These days, if you ask about James Joyce \u2013 or \u201cZhanmusi Qiaoyisi\u201d, as his name is transliterated in Chinese pinyin \u2013 in a Chinese bookshop you will be led to shelves lined with relevant volumes. The vast five-floor Xinhua bookshop on Wangfujing, a crowded shopping avenue just round the corner from Tiananmen Square, currently stocks no fewer than four different editions of Ulysses \u2013 one in English, and three in Chinese. Copies of Dubliners, A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man, Exiles and Finnegans Wake are also available.The tastes and identifications of China\u2019s expanding and dynamic middle class are part of the explanation for this renaissance. Where Joyce stood for bourgeois corruption only three decades ago, he now stands for cosmopolitan sophistication. Chinese people have an affectionate epithet for those particularly enamoured of the western way of life and its consumer comforts: they call such internationally minded bourgeois \u201cxiaozi\u201d \u2013 literally, \u201clittle capitalists\u201d. It is to a large degree such educated \u201cxiaozi\u201d who are driving the success of Arnold\u2019s plays.A Journey Round James Joyce was conceived specifically with China in mind. Performed in Chinese by Chinese actors, the play conjures Joyce and Nora Barnacle\u2019s departure from Ireland, Joyce\u2019s carousing in the bars of Trieste, the language lessons he gave to make a living, Nora\u2019s housekeeping and henpecking, his writing and its connections to his experiences in exile. The script consists of an ingenious collage of quotations assembled from many corners of Joyce\u2019s works and letters. In its departures from biographical fact and disruptions of chronological sequence, A Journey Round James Joyce bears some likeness to the theatrical fantasy by which Tom Stoppard imagined Joyce\u2019s life in Z\u00fcrich in Travesties in 1974. Yet the tone of this piece is quite different, fluctuating between broad comedy and romance, tension and melodrama.To western eyes, the sight and sound of a Chinese James Joyce and Nora Barnacle is completely disorienting (Joyce\u2019s recognisable glasses are at first the only obvious echo of a familiar story) and a thought-provoking reminder of the extent of the differences translations have to negotiate. As the play unfolds, snippets of the Irish songs and Italian operas Joyce loved (\u201cDown by the Salley Gardens\u201d, Madame Butterfly) add to the international ambiance of the Journey. The costumes and the exquisitely minimalist set are the fruits of Arnold\u2019s collaboration with Beijing\u2019s Xinchan theatre.Arnold\u2019s Ulysses is a wilder piece of theatre. Performed in English with Chinese surtitles, the play stages a recapitulation of all the novel\u2019s best-known moments \u2013 a \u201cgreatest hits\u201d formula. But the play makes great demands on anyone encountering Joyce\u2019s world for the first time: it would be fairly difficult, without prior knowledge of the book, and without a sense of the Dublin world in which it is rooted, to make head or tail of the spectacular whirligig of scenes by which Arnold recreates the events of Bloomsday.The play inverts the chronology of Joyce\u2019s book by presenting the events of 16 June 1904 as the stuff of Bloom\u2019s dreams after his return to the marital bed in the early hours of the following morning. The re-enactment of the key moments of his day is interwoven with excerpts from his wife Molly\u2019s famous closing soliloquy.What the Tron emphatically brings to Ulysses is the inventive energy and the daring to engage with a classic text. Joyce\u2019s odyssey in China, and the drama of east and west captured in its moving hall of mirrors, continues.", "tags": ["James Joyce", "Books", "Culture", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Radio", "Television", "BBC", "Media", "Television & radio"], "title": "James Joyce \u2013 big in China"},{"date": "2015-05-13T12:43:05Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has warned the United States not to take \u201crisky or provocative actions\u201d in a dispute over territorial claims in the South China Sea, as Washington contemplates a stronger stance in the area.The US defence secretary, Ash Carter, concerned about China\u2019s rapid expansion of artificial islands, has asked staff to look at options including sending ships and planes closer to reefs claimed by Beijing, the Wall Street Journal reported. China\u2019s foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told a news conference: \u201cWe are seriously concerned about the remarks on this issue by the US, and we think the US needs to make a clarification.\u201dShe said China respected the freedom of navigation for international traffic in the area, but that did not allow warships and military planes to enter territorial waters and airspace.\u201cChina will resolutely safeguard its own sovereignty. We call on the relevant parties to be cautious with their words and actions, and not take any risky or provocative actions,\u201d Hua said.The US has long insisted that it does not take sides in the complex territorial disputes in the region, but there have been growing tensions in recent months over China\u2019s aggressive land reclamation projects in the Spratly Islands.Several regional powers including the Philippines and Vietnam have overlapping claims to the area, mostly uninhabited reefs and atolls that lie in one of the world\u2019s busiest shipping routes.For years those claims were contested mostly by ships or between officials, but in recent years Beijing decided to reinforce its claims by expanding its territory. Since last year, building projects have quadrupled the size of artificial islands in Chinese-claimed areas, to 2,000 hectares. The projects include an airstrip that could be large enough for fighter jets and surveillance aircraft, the Wall Street Journal quoted the defence intelligence provider IHS Jane\u2019s as saying.The report said the change in US stance would involve flying over and sailing close to artificial islands that were only reefs before the latest building project. China says its territorial waters extend for 12 nautical miles from the land, a line that the US has challenged verbally but until now ordered its navy to respect.Some regional allies want the US to take a stronger stance in challenging China, while others fear that ratcheting up the pressure only raises the risk of military confrontation and could encourage Beijing to speed up building work even more, the report said.The White House would have to sign off on any change in the US posture, and the Wall Street Journal said it had declined to comment.Luna Lin contributed research to this article", "tags": ["China", "US foreign policy", "US news", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China urges caution from US over South China Sea disputes"},{"date": "2015-05-07T15:09:13Z", "country": "china", "content": "Steve Koon, the founding partner of Innovate99 Impact Investment, and Robin Zhang, founding partner of Venture Avenue, are two of a growing number of Chinese social investors. They have partnered with the British Council for over five years to provide training, mentoring and funding opportunities to social enterprises in China. We asked them about the sector\u2019s evolution and the opportunities and challenges that lie ahead. While China\u2019s economy has enjoyed near 10% growth for over 30 years, public services have been under strain from the weight of the world\u2019s largest population, massive rural migration to the cities and the restructuring of public health services. Moreover, the country is rapidly ageing: there are now some 200 million Chinese over the age of 60, accounting for almost 15% of the population, and their number is set to carry on rising. This coupled with its other social and environmental issues means that China is in serious need of new approaches to public services.That\u2019s where social enterprise, which is now beginning to take off, could really make a difference. \u201cSocial enterprises can target people who can pay to generate profits to subsidise those who can\u2019t pay\u201d says Koon. \u201cThe key is to go beyond the \u2018free and government subsidy\u2019 models to develop market-based solutions.\u201dKoon goes on to say that \u201celderly services and special education are the two sectors most suitable for social enterprise solutions. [They] can deliver the most impact and financial return because of the possibility of building up a scalable business model.\u201dZhang likewise sees opportunities in helping NGOs working in education, medical care and elderly care adopt revenue generating social enterprise models. Moreover, he believes that \u201curban inclusion of migrant workers and connecting small rural economies to cities\u201d is a highly promising area of work for social enterprises in China. \u201cThese two issues impact on reducing the gap between rural and urban China, and help improve social stability,\u201d he adds.China\u2019s meteoric rise has caused many changes in Chinese society \u2013 and these have been reflected in the development of social enterprise over its relatively short existence. Both investors have seen an increase in the scale and number of social enterprises in China in recent years, but it is another change that has most profoundly marked the sector\u2019s evolution. \u201cWhen we started in 2009, most of the participants [in social enterprise training programmes] were from traditional NGOs and grassroots charity organisations. In the last couple of years, however, we began to have more participants from the business sector,\u201d says Koon.Zhang goes on to say that \u201c[these] \u2018newcomers\u2019 from the business world [are] converting their already successful enterprises into social enterprises.\u201dWhile this brought more activity, business experience and capital to the social enterprise sector, it also created new challenges.As Koon puts it: \u201cAt the beginning, the needs were very one-way: how to change from non-profits to social enterprises. As more participants from the business sector joined, another need emerged; changing from a commercial organisation to a social enterprise. The needs changed from a \u2018one-way street to a two-way highway\u2019.\u201cThe scale was also becoming bigger. We had organisations whose annual budget ranged from 100,000 renminbi to a few million [\u00a310,000 to a few hundred thousand]. Some were just serving a few people while others were helping hundreds or even thousands of people.\u201dZhang adds that \u201cwhile the old social enterprises need more incubation services, the new social enterprises need more validation that what they are doing is meaningful, and therefore valued by society.\u201dA major barrier to the development of social enterprise in China is the fact that it enjoys no legal definition or formal government recognition. And after a few well publicised scandals involving NGOs, there is deep mistrust of allowing businesses engaged in seemingly charitable causes to pay dividends to shareholders \u2013 something which is at the core of some social enterprise concepts but also debated in the west.Aside from these high-level cultural barriers, social enterprises in China also face the same types of operational challenges as those in other countries, though according to Steve Koon access to funding does not top the list. The sheer scale of China\u2019s social needs dwarf the entirety of the UK social enterprise sector\u201cThe problem is always finding organisations with a scalable strategy and talented people. When I say strategy, I mean a long-term vision plus a practical five-year plan with sustainable revenues to help the organisation grow in both scale and quality of service. When I say people, I mean people with passion and commitment plus business management competence; in other words, professional managers with a sense of mission.\u201dThe sheer number of people in need is also a big problem.\u201cIn the UK, there are a lot of resources and [relatively] few people in need. In China, you have very few resources and too many people in need.\u201dHe adds that in the disability sector alone there are over 80 million people in need in China, more than the total population of the UK.\u201cThe sheer scale of China\u2019s social needs dwarf the entirety of the UK social enterprise sector.\u201dHowever, despite these issues, both investors are very optimistic about the future of social enterprise in China.Zhang believes that the sector\u2019s growth in China over the next five to 10 years will be \u201cexplosive\u201d, and expects more and more NGOs, especially in the education, medical care and elderly care industries, to adjust their approach and incorporate some revenue generating activity. Koon says: \u201cAs China\u2019s economy keeps growing, the amount of resources will increase. As the internet and smartphones become more popular, social problems also become more transparent and more people will join in to help.\u201dContent on this page is paid for and provided by the British Council, sponsor of the international social enterprise hub", "tags": ["Social Enterprise British Council Partner zone"], "title": "The shape of social enterprise in China"},{"date": "2015-06-13T11:00:07Z", "country": "china", "content": "Joyce\u2019s image in China holds a strange fascination in the west. When the first third of Finnegans Wake, his last and most notoriously difficult book, was published in Shanghai in 2013, newspapers in Britain and America greeted the announcement as a momentous event. Certainly, the salient details of the story are arresting: 72 years had passed since the publication of the novel in London in 1941; seven years had elapsed since Dai Congrong had agreed to undertake the formidable task of translation; and when the book appeared between luxuriously silky dark-green boards, heavy with pages of explanatory notes, it became an immediate commercial success.By what miracles of linguistic mastery and literary imagination could Chinese characters be made to capture Joyce\u2019s mind-bending manipulations of the alphabet? By what subtleties of cross-cultural understanding could the specificities of Ireland and its mythologies be translated for a Chinese audience? Could the translation be trusted if it made Finnegans Wake a bestseller?When Ulysses was first published in Paris in 1922, Joyce responded with delight to news that an order had been placed from China: \u201cTen copies to Peking!\u201d he exclaimed. Ulysses, even more than Finnegans Wake, is alive in China today. Two Joyce-themed stage productions have recently toured major Chinese cities. Both are the brainchildren of Andy Arnold, the artistic director of Glasgow\u2019s Tron theatre, and form part of a programme of performances for a UK-China Year of Cultural Exchange. The first, A Journey Round James Joyce, offers an elegantly devised biographical reimagining of Joyce\u2019s life in Trieste between 1905 and 1915. The second, Ulysses, is a revival of the Tron\u2019s successful 2012 production of Dermot Bolger\u2019s adaptation (A Dublin Bloom, 1996). They performed to full and enthusiastic houses in Beijing, Shanghai, Hangzhou and Jinan.For much of the 20th century, Joyce\u2019s name was not one to be lightly pronounced or printed in China. Even as late as 1982 \u2013 as Jin Di, Ulysses\u2019s first translator, reports \u2013 a state official commenting on the centenary of Joyce\u2019s birth described the world of Leopold Bloom as \u201cshocking in its pettiness, obscurity, ugliness, and confusion\u201d and as emblematic of \u201cthe decadence of the modern bourgeoisie\u201d.Yet by 1996, not one but two versions of Ulysses were available to Chinese readers. The novel sold very well, and western newspapers, as they would later about Finnegans Wake, commented on Ulysses\u2019s bestseller status in China with a mixture of excitement and bemusement. But the book\u2019s journey had in a sense only begun. Works of such length and complexity take time to percolate into a nation\u2019s living rooms and classrooms. These days, if you ask about James Joyce \u2013 or \u201cZhanmusi Qiaoyisi\u201d, as his name is transliterated in Chinese pinyin \u2013 in a Chinese bookshop you will be led to shelves lined with relevant volumes. The vast five-floor Xinhua bookshop on Wangfujing, a crowded shopping avenue just round the corner from Tiananmen Square, currently stocks no fewer than four different editions of Ulysses \u2013 one in English, and three in Chinese. Copies of Dubliners, A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man, Exiles and Finnegans Wake are also available.The tastes and identifications of China\u2019s expanding and dynamic middle class are part of the explanation for this renaissance. Where Joyce stood for bourgeois corruption only three decades ago, he now stands for cosmopolitan sophistication. Chinese people have an affectionate epithet for those particularly enamoured of the western way of life and its consumer comforts: they call such internationally minded bourgeois \u201cxiaozi\u201d \u2013 literally, \u201clittle capitalists\u201d. It is to a large degree such educated \u201cxiaozi\u201d who are driving the success of Arnold\u2019s plays.A Journey Round James Joyce was conceived specifically with China in mind. Performed in Chinese by Chinese actors, the play conjures Joyce and Nora Barnacle\u2019s departure from Ireland, Joyce\u2019s carousing in the bars of Trieste, the language lessons he gave to make a living, Nora\u2019s housekeeping and henpecking, his writing and its connections to his experiences in exile. The script consists of an ingenious collage of quotations assembled from many corners of Joyce\u2019s works and letters. In its departures from biographical fact and disruptions of chronological sequence, A Journey Round James Joyce bears some likeness to the theatrical fantasy by which Tom Stoppard imagined Joyce\u2019s life in Z\u00fcrich in Travesties in 1974. Yet the tone of this piece is quite different, fluctuating between broad comedy and romance, tension and melodrama.To western eyes, the sight and sound of a Chinese James Joyce and Nora Barnacle is completely disorienting (Joyce\u2019s recognisable glasses are at first the only obvious echo of a familiar story) and a thought-provoking reminder of the extent of the differences translations have to negotiate. As the play unfolds, snippets of the Irish songs and Italian operas Joyce loved (\u201cDown by the Salley Gardens\u201d, Madame Butterfly) add to the international ambiance of the Journey. The costumes and the exquisitely minimalist set are the fruits of Arnold\u2019s collaboration with Beijing\u2019s Xinchan theatre.Arnold\u2019s Ulysses is a wilder piece of theatre. Performed in English with Chinese surtitles, the play stages a recapitulation of all the novel\u2019s best-known moments \u2013 a \u201cgreatest hits\u201d formula. But the play makes great demands on anyone encountering Joyce\u2019s world for the first time: it would be fairly difficult, without prior knowledge of the book, and without a sense of the Dublin world in which it is rooted, to make head or tail of the spectacular whirligig of scenes by which Arnold recreates the events of Bloomsday.The play inverts the chronology of Joyce\u2019s book by presenting the events of 16 June 1904 as the stuff of Bloom\u2019s dreams after his return to the marital bed in the early hours of the following morning. The re-enactment of the key moments of his day is interwoven with excerpts from his wife Molly\u2019s famous closing soliloquy.What the Tron emphatically brings to Ulysses is the inventive energy and the daring to engage with a classic text. Joyce\u2019s odyssey in China, and the drama of east and west captured in its moving hall of mirrors, continues.", "tags": ["James Joyce", "Books", "Culture", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Radio", "Television", "BBC", "Media", "Television & radio"], "title": "James Joyce \u2013 big in China"},{"date": "2015-05-13T12:43:05Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has warned the United States not to take \u201crisky or provocative actions\u201d in a dispute over territorial claims in the South China Sea, as Washington contemplates a stronger stance in the area.The US defence secretary, Ash Carter, concerned about China\u2019s rapid expansion of artificial islands, has asked staff to look at options including sending ships and planes closer to reefs claimed by Beijing, the Wall Street Journal reported. China\u2019s foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told a news conference: \u201cWe are seriously concerned about the remarks on this issue by the US, and we think the US needs to make a clarification.\u201dShe said China respected the freedom of navigation for international traffic in the area, but that did not allow warships and military planes to enter territorial waters and airspace.\u201cChina will resolutely safeguard its own sovereignty. We call on the relevant parties to be cautious with their words and actions, and not take any risky or provocative actions,\u201d Hua said.The US has long insisted that it does not take sides in the complex territorial disputes in the region, but there have been growing tensions in recent months over China\u2019s aggressive land reclamation projects in the Spratly Islands.Several regional powers including the Philippines and Vietnam have overlapping claims to the area, mostly uninhabited reefs and atolls that lie in one of the world\u2019s busiest shipping routes.For years those claims were contested mostly by ships or between officials, but in recent years Beijing decided to reinforce its claims by expanding its territory. Since last year, building projects have quadrupled the size of artificial islands in Chinese-claimed areas, to 2,000 hectares. The projects include an airstrip that could be large enough for fighter jets and surveillance aircraft, the Wall Street Journal quoted the defence intelligence provider IHS Jane\u2019s as saying.The report said the change in US stance would involve flying over and sailing close to artificial islands that were only reefs before the latest building project. China says its territorial waters extend for 12 nautical miles from the land, a line that the US has challenged verbally but until now ordered its navy to respect.Some regional allies want the US to take a stronger stance in challenging China, while others fear that ratcheting up the pressure only raises the risk of military confrontation and could encourage Beijing to speed up building work even more, the report said.The White House would have to sign off on any change in the US posture, and the Wall Street Journal said it had declined to comment.Luna Lin contributed research to this article", "tags": ["China", "US foreign policy", "US news", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China urges caution from US over South China Sea disputes"},{"date": "2015-05-07T15:09:13Z", "country": "china", "content": "Steve Koon, the founding partner of Innovate99 Impact Investment, and Robin Zhang, founding partner of Venture Avenue, are two of a growing number of Chinese social investors. They have partnered with the British Council for over five years to provide training, mentoring and funding opportunities to social enterprises in China. We asked them about the sector\u2019s evolution and the opportunities and challenges that lie ahead. While China\u2019s economy has enjoyed near 10% growth for over 30 years, public services have been under strain from the weight of the world\u2019s largest population, massive rural migration to the cities and the restructuring of public health services. Moreover, the country is rapidly ageing: there are now some 200 million Chinese over the age of 60, accounting for almost 15% of the population, and their number is set to carry on rising. This coupled with its other social and environmental issues means that China is in serious need of new approaches to public services.That\u2019s where social enterprise, which is now beginning to take off, could really make a difference. \u201cSocial enterprises can target people who can pay to generate profits to subsidise those who can\u2019t pay\u201d says Koon. \u201cThe key is to go beyond the \u2018free and government subsidy\u2019 models to develop market-based solutions.\u201dKoon goes on to say that \u201celderly services and special education are the two sectors most suitable for social enterprise solutions. [They] can deliver the most impact and financial return because of the possibility of building up a scalable business model.\u201dZhang likewise sees opportunities in helping NGOs working in education, medical care and elderly care adopt revenue generating social enterprise models. Moreover, he believes that \u201curban inclusion of migrant workers and connecting small rural economies to cities\u201d is a highly promising area of work for social enterprises in China. \u201cThese two issues impact on reducing the gap between rural and urban China, and help improve social stability,\u201d he adds.China\u2019s meteoric rise has caused many changes in Chinese society \u2013 and these have been reflected in the development of social enterprise over its relatively short existence. Both investors have seen an increase in the scale and number of social enterprises in China in recent years, but it is another change that has most profoundly marked the sector\u2019s evolution. \u201cWhen we started in 2009, most of the participants [in social enterprise training programmes] were from traditional NGOs and grassroots charity organisations. In the last couple of years, however, we began to have more participants from the business sector,\u201d says Koon.Zhang goes on to say that \u201c[these] \u2018newcomers\u2019 from the business world [are] converting their already successful enterprises into social enterprises.\u201dWhile this brought more activity, business experience and capital to the social enterprise sector, it also created new challenges.As Koon puts it: \u201cAt the beginning, the needs were very one-way: how to change from non-profits to social enterprises. As more participants from the business sector joined, another need emerged; changing from a commercial organisation to a social enterprise. The needs changed from a \u2018one-way street to a two-way highway\u2019.\u201cThe scale was also becoming bigger. We had organisations whose annual budget ranged from 100,000 renminbi to a few million [\u00a310,000 to a few hundred thousand]. Some were just serving a few people while others were helping hundreds or even thousands of people.\u201dZhang adds that \u201cwhile the old social enterprises need more incubation services, the new social enterprises need more validation that what they are doing is meaningful, and therefore valued by society.\u201dA major barrier to the development of social enterprise in China is the fact that it enjoys no legal definition or formal government recognition. And after a few well publicised scandals involving NGOs, there is deep mistrust of allowing businesses engaged in seemingly charitable causes to pay dividends to shareholders \u2013 something which is at the core of some social enterprise concepts but also debated in the west.Aside from these high-level cultural barriers, social enterprises in China also face the same types of operational challenges as those in other countries, though according to Steve Koon access to funding does not top the list. The sheer scale of China\u2019s social needs dwarf the entirety of the UK social enterprise sector\u201cThe problem is always finding organisations with a scalable strategy and talented people. When I say strategy, I mean a long-term vision plus a practical five-year plan with sustainable revenues to help the organisation grow in both scale and quality of service. When I say people, I mean people with passion and commitment plus business management competence; in other words, professional managers with a sense of mission.\u201dThe sheer number of people in need is also a big problem.\u201cIn the UK, there are a lot of resources and [relatively] few people in need. In China, you have very few resources and too many people in need.\u201dHe adds that in the disability sector alone there are over 80 million people in need in China, more than the total population of the UK.\u201cThe sheer scale of China\u2019s social needs dwarf the entirety of the UK social enterprise sector.\u201dHowever, despite these issues, both investors are very optimistic about the future of social enterprise in China.Zhang believes that the sector\u2019s growth in China over the next five to 10 years will be \u201cexplosive\u201d, and expects more and more NGOs, especially in the education, medical care and elderly care industries, to adjust their approach and incorporate some revenue generating activity. Koon says: \u201cAs China\u2019s economy keeps growing, the amount of resources will increase. As the internet and smartphones become more popular, social problems also become more transparent and more people will join in to help.\u201dContent on this page is paid for and provided by the British Council, sponsor of the international social enterprise hub", "tags": ["Social Enterprise British Council Partner zone"], "title": "The shape of social enterprise in China"},{"date": "2015-05-01T08:20:53Z", "country": "china", "content": "A new bird species has been discovered in central China by an international team of scientists. This shy brown bird, named the Sichuan bush warbler, Locustella chengi, breeds in the mountainous region of the Sichuan Basin at 1000-2300 m elevation. Its winter home is currently unknown. This bird was first noticed whilst singing its distinctive song in May 1992 by two members of the research team, who thought it might be something new. After nearly two decades of searching, they found the bird again. Extensive analyses of the bird\u2019s DNA, physical measurements, plumage colour and vocalisations confirmed their hunch that this is indeed a new bird species to science.\u201cI first heard this species together with my friend Urban Olsson when we visited the sacred Emei mountain in Sichuan province, central China in May 1992\u201d, writes Per Alstr\u00f6m, a professor of systematics and evolution at Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences (Sveriges Lantbruksuniversitet) and lead author on this paper. Professor Olsson, associate professor of systematics and biodiversity at the University of Gothenburg (G\u00f6teborgs universitet), is one of the many co-authors on this paper. \u201cWe heard a song that was unfamiliar to us coming from a dense patch of tall herbs close to the trail. The song didn\u2019t sound very \u2018bird-like\u2019, and as we couldn\u2019t see a trace of any bird, we were debating for a little while whether it was a bird or some insect\u201d, recalls Professor Alstr\u00f6m.\u201cAlthough we thought it was most likely a bird.\u201dThe sound they heard was a series of repeated phrases consisting of a drawn-out harsh note followed by a shorter note. This is the sound they heard on that particular morning in May 1992 (fig.2):Eventually, the two friends caught several fleeting glimpses of a small round-bodied chocolate-brown bird with a dark stubby tail, long pink legs, large dark eyes and a pointy black beak, scampering quickly through the dense underbrush. After listening and watching for awhile, they decided this shy little bird was their singer, and that it looked rather like a russet bush warbler, Locustella mandelli (pictured below) -- a species that both men had previously seen and heard in northwest Thailand.But this bird\u2019s song was so strange! Was it really a russet bush warbler? Although neither was convinced, they couldn\u2019t be sure since they neither saw nor heard this elusive bird again during that visit.The two friends returned home to Sweden, pondering this mousy bird. Meanwhile, weeks lengthened into months and turned into years -- many years, in fact. During the ensuing decades, the two friends landed good jobs at separate universities in Sweden, relocated a few times and immersed themselves into their work, their colleagues and students, and their families. Yet neither forgot their encounter with that mysterious little chocolate-brown bird in the faraway mountains of China.Nearly twenty years later, Professor Alstr\u00f6m returned to China as a visiting professor at the Chinese Academy of Sciences. He was just as determined to find and identify this mystery bird as when he first heard it. Some of Professor Alstr\u00f6m\u2019s bird-watching colleagues in China had noticed this mystery bird, too. Soon, Professor Alstr\u00f6m and his Chinese colleagues were even discussing this species using the provisional name they\u2019d given it; \u201cSichuan bush warbler\u201d. After learning that the \u201cSichuan bush warbler\u201d and the russet bush warbler had both been found breeding in the Qinling mountains, a team was assembled to seek out both birds, to learn more about how they interacted with each other. Together with his Chinese colleagues Fumin Lei, Gang Song and Zuohua Yin from the Institute of Zoology at the Chinese Academy of Sciences in Beijing and Xuebin Gao from the Shaanxi Institute of Zoology in Xian, they mounted an expedition to the Qinling mountains, where they collected the first \u201cSichuan bush warbler\u201d on 28 May 2011. This individual is the holotype for his species, which is to say that he is the one specimen that represents what the species looks like. This specimen is now housed in the Institute of Zoology at Chinese Academy of Sciences, along with sound recordings and a sample of his DNA.Later, more individuals were spotted, captured and measured, their songs recorded and DNA samples collected. Back in the lab, mitochondrial DNA analyses of samples from birds in the genus Locustella revealed that these two bush warblers are very closely related. Further, these analyses estimated that the two species diverged from a common ancestor roughly 850,000 years ago (fig. 3).The team measured plumage colour across each bird\u2019s body as well as a variety of physical features -- length, height and width of each bird\u2019s beak, and wing and leg length, for example. Analyses of these measurements confirmed that the two species are significantly different. For example, when compared to the russet bush warbler, the Sichuan bush warbler\u2019s breeding plumage is generally greyer overall, lacking the appropriately-named russet bush warbler\u2019s strong russet tones. They also found that the Sichuan bush warbler has a shorter tail and longer wings than the russet bush warbler. The research team\u2019s field studies found that the Sichuan bush warbler is locally common, and does not appear to be under any imminent threat. By this time, the team gave this bird its formal names: its English name refers to Sichuan province where it was first discovered, and its specific name, chengi, honours the late professor Cheng Tso-hsin (1906\u20131998), China\u2019s greatest ornithologist.The Sichuan bush warbler is very similar to its closest relative, the russet bush warbler, but the two species are not identical. Which raises the question: short of carrying an automated PCR and DNA sequencer into the field -- laboratory equipment that can be as large and as heavy as a refrigerator-freezer -- how can an ornithologist or birder reliably distinguish these bird species, especially when they are hiding in an impenetrable bush, as they tend to do?This is where the science and the art of bird watching meet because identifying birds requires careful study of the bird in the field combined with a deep knowledge of each species\u2019 natural history. In the case of these two cryptic species, several characters help distinguish them. First, the russet bush warbler\u2019s range (orange dots, fig. 1) is not identical to that of the Sichuan bush warbler (red dots, fig. 1). Second, even where their ranges overlap, as in parts of Sichuan Province, the two species breed at different elevations: the Sichuan bush warbler nests on lower mountainsides (fig. 4, left) whilst the russet bush warbler nests at higher altitudes (fig. 4, right).But the most obvious difference of all, especially for those who listen carefully to birds, is song. The Sichuan bush warbler sings a lower-pitched song with more drawn out notes (fig. 2) compared to the russet bush warbler (fig. 5):Not only do these two species\u2019 songs sound dramatically different, but a side-by-side comparison between the sonograms created from their song elements also look strikingly different (figure 6):Discoveries provoke questions, and this newly identified species will likely trigger a plethora of interesting research, particularly about evolution and the process of speciation in birds. For example, understanding how the common ancestor of these two bird species came to differentially exploit past environments could shed more light upon the complex relationships between evolution, ecology, geology and climate. Of course, such an investigation is made more challenging by the lack of fossils.As an ornithologist and birder, a basic question that I\u2019ve been pondering is which came first, the song or the species? Song is an important form of communication in birds. They use it to maintain their breeding territories, to advertise their overall fitness, and to attract mates. Since female songbirds choose their mates based on their songs, ornithologists are investigating how female choice influences the evolution of male song. These two, nearly identical, species that inhabit distinct niches and produce distinct songs could provide more insight into these two intersecting processes.Another interesting question is the relationship between birdsong and habitat: did these two species\u2019 songs evolve so they each travel most effectively through the particular niche that the singers live in? Research has shown that birds living in dense vegetation with a complex structure (a rainforest, basically) tend to sing songs with narrow bandwidths, low frequencies, drawn-out song elements and longer inter-element intervals, whereas birds that sing songs with broad bandwidths, high frequencies, short song elements and compressed inter-element intervals tend to live in more open habitats that lack obstructive vegetation (grasslands and the like). But you don\u2019t need to be a scientist or a birdwatcher to appreciate and be excited by the discovery of new species. Professor Alstr\u00f6m pointed out in email: \u201cALL living organisms are interesting, and there are SO MANY cool creatures all over the world that are thoroughly enjoyable to observe.\u201dPer Alstro\u0308m, Canwei Xia, Pamela C Rasmussen, Urban Olsson, Bo Dai, Jian Zhao, Paul J Leader, Geoff J Carey, Lu Dong, Tianlong Cai, Paul I Holt, Hung Le Manh, Gang Song, Yang Liu, Yanyun Zhang and Fumin Lei (2015). Integrative taxonomy of the Russet Bush Warbler Locustella mandelli complex reveals a new species from central China, Avian Research, 6 (9) doi:10.1186/s40657-015-0016-z (OA)Per Alstr\u00f6m [emails: 19, 20, 27-3o April & 1 May 2015]Pam Rasmussen [emails: 28 April 2015]Background:Alstr\u00f6m P., Fregin S., Norman J.A., Ericson P.G.P., Christidis L. & Olsson U. (2011). Multilocus analysis of a taxonomically densely sampled dataset reveal extensive non-monophyly in the avian family Locustellidae, Molecular phylogenetics and evolution, 58 513-526. doi:10.1016/j.ympev.2010.12.012 (\u20a4 [Free PDF summarising main findings])... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..When she\u2019s not out birding or trying to hack audio embed codes, GrrlScientist is very active on twitter @GrrlScientist and sometimes lurks on social media: facebook, G+, LinkedIn, and Pinterest.", "tags": ["Science", "Animal behaviour", "Biology", "Zoology", "Taxonomy", "Animals", "Birds", "Birdwatching", "Environment", "Wildlife", "China", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New bird species discovered in a bush in China | @GrrlScientist"},{"date": "2015-06-13T11:00:07Z", "country": "china", "content": "Joyce\u2019s image in China holds a strange fascination in the west. When the first third of Finnegans Wake, his last and most notoriously difficult book, was published in Shanghai in 2013, newspapers in Britain and America greeted the announcement as a momentous event. Certainly, the salient details of the story are arresting: 72 years had passed since the publication of the novel in London in 1941; seven years had elapsed since Dai Congrong had agreed to undertake the formidable task of translation; and when the book appeared between luxuriously silky dark-green boards, heavy with pages of explanatory notes, it became an immediate commercial success.By what miracles of linguistic mastery and literary imagination could Chinese characters be made to capture Joyce\u2019s mind-bending manipulations of the alphabet? By what subtleties of cross-cultural understanding could the specificities of Ireland and its mythologies be translated for a Chinese audience? Could the translation be trusted if it made Finnegans Wake a bestseller?When Ulysses was first published in Paris in 1922, Joyce responded with delight to news that an order had been placed from China: \u201cTen copies to Peking!\u201d he exclaimed. Ulysses, even more than Finnegans Wake, is alive in China today. Two Joyce-themed stage productions have recently toured major Chinese cities. Both are the brainchildren of Andy Arnold, the artistic director of Glasgow\u2019s Tron theatre, and form part of a programme of performances for a UK-China Year of Cultural Exchange. The first, A Journey Round James Joyce, offers an elegantly devised biographical reimagining of Joyce\u2019s life in Trieste between 1905 and 1915. The second, Ulysses, is a revival of the Tron\u2019s successful 2012 production of Dermot Bolger\u2019s adaptation (A Dublin Bloom, 1996). They performed to full and enthusiastic houses in Beijing, Shanghai, Hangzhou and Jinan.For much of the 20th century, Joyce\u2019s name was not one to be lightly pronounced or printed in China. Even as late as 1982 \u2013 as Jin Di, Ulysses\u2019s first translator, reports \u2013 a state official commenting on the centenary of Joyce\u2019s birth described the world of Leopold Bloom as \u201cshocking in its pettiness, obscurity, ugliness, and confusion\u201d and as emblematic of \u201cthe decadence of the modern bourgeoisie\u201d.Yet by 1996, not one but two versions of Ulysses were available to Chinese readers. The novel sold very well, and western newspapers, as they would later about Finnegans Wake, commented on Ulysses\u2019s bestseller status in China with a mixture of excitement and bemusement. But the book\u2019s journey had in a sense only begun. Works of such length and complexity take time to percolate into a nation\u2019s living rooms and classrooms. These days, if you ask about James Joyce \u2013 or \u201cZhanmusi Qiaoyisi\u201d, as his name is transliterated in Chinese pinyin \u2013 in a Chinese bookshop you will be led to shelves lined with relevant volumes. The vast five-floor Xinhua bookshop on Wangfujing, a crowded shopping avenue just round the corner from Tiananmen Square, currently stocks no fewer than four different editions of Ulysses \u2013 one in English, and three in Chinese. Copies of Dubliners, A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man, Exiles and Finnegans Wake are also available.The tastes and identifications of China\u2019s expanding and dynamic middle class are part of the explanation for this renaissance. Where Joyce stood for bourgeois corruption only three decades ago, he now stands for cosmopolitan sophistication. Chinese people have an affectionate epithet for those particularly enamoured of the western way of life and its consumer comforts: they call such internationally minded bourgeois \u201cxiaozi\u201d \u2013 literally, \u201clittle capitalists\u201d. It is to a large degree such educated \u201cxiaozi\u201d who are driving the success of Arnold\u2019s plays.A Journey Round James Joyce was conceived specifically with China in mind. Performed in Chinese by Chinese actors, the play conjures Joyce and Nora Barnacle\u2019s departure from Ireland, Joyce\u2019s carousing in the bars of Trieste, the language lessons he gave to make a living, Nora\u2019s housekeeping and henpecking, his writing and its connections to his experiences in exile. The script consists of an ingenious collage of quotations assembled from many corners of Joyce\u2019s works and letters. In its departures from biographical fact and disruptions of chronological sequence, A Journey Round James Joyce bears some likeness to the theatrical fantasy by which Tom Stoppard imagined Joyce\u2019s life in Z\u00fcrich in Travesties in 1974. Yet the tone of this piece is quite different, fluctuating between broad comedy and romance, tension and melodrama.To western eyes, the sight and sound of a Chinese James Joyce and Nora Barnacle is completely disorienting (Joyce\u2019s recognisable glasses are at first the only obvious echo of a familiar story) and a thought-provoking reminder of the extent of the differences translations have to negotiate. As the play unfolds, snippets of the Irish songs and Italian operas Joyce loved (\u201cDown by the Salley Gardens\u201d, Madame Butterfly) add to the international ambiance of the Journey. The costumes and the exquisitely minimalist set are the fruits of Arnold\u2019s collaboration with Beijing\u2019s Xinchan theatre.Arnold\u2019s Ulysses is a wilder piece of theatre. Performed in English with Chinese surtitles, the play stages a recapitulation of all the novel\u2019s best-known moments \u2013 a \u201cgreatest hits\u201d formula. But the play makes great demands on anyone encountering Joyce\u2019s world for the first time: it would be fairly difficult, without prior knowledge of the book, and without a sense of the Dublin world in which it is rooted, to make head or tail of the spectacular whirligig of scenes by which Arnold recreates the events of Bloomsday.The play inverts the chronology of Joyce\u2019s book by presenting the events of 16 June 1904 as the stuff of Bloom\u2019s dreams after his return to the marital bed in the early hours of the following morning. The re-enactment of the key moments of his day is interwoven with excerpts from his wife Molly\u2019s famous closing soliloquy.What the Tron emphatically brings to Ulysses is the inventive energy and the daring to engage with a classic text. Joyce\u2019s odyssey in China, and the drama of east and west captured in its moving hall of mirrors, continues.", "tags": ["James Joyce", "Books", "Culture", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Radio", "Television", "BBC", "Media", "Television & radio"], "title": "James Joyce \u2013 big in China"},{"date": "2015-05-13T12:43:05Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has warned the United States not to take \u201crisky or provocative actions\u201d in a dispute over territorial claims in the South China Sea, as Washington contemplates a stronger stance in the area.The US defence secretary, Ash Carter, concerned about China\u2019s rapid expansion of artificial islands, has asked staff to look at options including sending ships and planes closer to reefs claimed by Beijing, the Wall Street Journal reported. China\u2019s foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told a news conference: \u201cWe are seriously concerned about the remarks on this issue by the US, and we think the US needs to make a clarification.\u201dShe said China respected the freedom of navigation for international traffic in the area, but that did not allow warships and military planes to enter territorial waters and airspace.\u201cChina will resolutely safeguard its own sovereignty. We call on the relevant parties to be cautious with their words and actions, and not take any risky or provocative actions,\u201d Hua said.The US has long insisted that it does not take sides in the complex territorial disputes in the region, but there have been growing tensions in recent months over China\u2019s aggressive land reclamation projects in the Spratly Islands.Several regional powers including the Philippines and Vietnam have overlapping claims to the area, mostly uninhabited reefs and atolls that lie in one of the world\u2019s busiest shipping routes.For years those claims were contested mostly by ships or between officials, but in recent years Beijing decided to reinforce its claims by expanding its territory. Since last year, building projects have quadrupled the size of artificial islands in Chinese-claimed areas, to 2,000 hectares. The projects include an airstrip that could be large enough for fighter jets and surveillance aircraft, the Wall Street Journal quoted the defence intelligence provider IHS Jane\u2019s as saying.The report said the change in US stance would involve flying over and sailing close to artificial islands that were only reefs before the latest building project. China says its territorial waters extend for 12 nautical miles from the land, a line that the US has challenged verbally but until now ordered its navy to respect.Some regional allies want the US to take a stronger stance in challenging China, while others fear that ratcheting up the pressure only raises the risk of military confrontation and could encourage Beijing to speed up building work even more, the report said.The White House would have to sign off on any change in the US posture, and the Wall Street Journal said it had declined to comment.Luna Lin contributed research to this article", "tags": ["China", "US foreign policy", "US news", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China urges caution from US over South China Sea disputes"},{"date": "2015-05-07T15:09:13Z", "country": "china", "content": "Steve Koon, the founding partner of Innovate99 Impact Investment, and Robin Zhang, founding partner of Venture Avenue, are two of a growing number of Chinese social investors. They have partnered with the British Council for over five years to provide training, mentoring and funding opportunities to social enterprises in China. We asked them about the sector\u2019s evolution and the opportunities and challenges that lie ahead. While China\u2019s economy has enjoyed near 10% growth for over 30 years, public services have been under strain from the weight of the world\u2019s largest population, massive rural migration to the cities and the restructuring of public health services. Moreover, the country is rapidly ageing: there are now some 200 million Chinese over the age of 60, accounting for almost 15% of the population, and their number is set to carry on rising. This coupled with its other social and environmental issues means that China is in serious need of new approaches to public services.That\u2019s where social enterprise, which is now beginning to take off, could really make a difference. \u201cSocial enterprises can target people who can pay to generate profits to subsidise those who can\u2019t pay\u201d says Koon. \u201cThe key is to go beyond the \u2018free and government subsidy\u2019 models to develop market-based solutions.\u201dKoon goes on to say that \u201celderly services and special education are the two sectors most suitable for social enterprise solutions. [They] can deliver the most impact and financial return because of the possibility of building up a scalable business model.\u201dZhang likewise sees opportunities in helping NGOs working in education, medical care and elderly care adopt revenue generating social enterprise models. Moreover, he believes that \u201curban inclusion of migrant workers and connecting small rural economies to cities\u201d is a highly promising area of work for social enterprises in China. \u201cThese two issues impact on reducing the gap between rural and urban China, and help improve social stability,\u201d he adds.China\u2019s meteoric rise has caused many changes in Chinese society \u2013 and these have been reflected in the development of social enterprise over its relatively short existence. Both investors have seen an increase in the scale and number of social enterprises in China in recent years, but it is another change that has most profoundly marked the sector\u2019s evolution. \u201cWhen we started in 2009, most of the participants [in social enterprise training programmes] were from traditional NGOs and grassroots charity organisations. In the last couple of years, however, we began to have more participants from the business sector,\u201d says Koon.Zhang goes on to say that \u201c[these] \u2018newcomers\u2019 from the business world [are] converting their already successful enterprises into social enterprises.\u201dWhile this brought more activity, business experience and capital to the social enterprise sector, it also created new challenges.As Koon puts it: \u201cAt the beginning, the needs were very one-way: how to change from non-profits to social enterprises. As more participants from the business sector joined, another need emerged; changing from a commercial organisation to a social enterprise. The needs changed from a \u2018one-way street to a two-way highway\u2019.\u201cThe scale was also becoming bigger. We had organisations whose annual budget ranged from 100,000 renminbi to a few million [\u00a310,000 to a few hundred thousand]. Some were just serving a few people while others were helping hundreds or even thousands of people.\u201dZhang adds that \u201cwhile the old social enterprises need more incubation services, the new social enterprises need more validation that what they are doing is meaningful, and therefore valued by society.\u201dA major barrier to the development of social enterprise in China is the fact that it enjoys no legal definition or formal government recognition. And after a few well publicised scandals involving NGOs, there is deep mistrust of allowing businesses engaged in seemingly charitable causes to pay dividends to shareholders \u2013 something which is at the core of some social enterprise concepts but also debated in the west.Aside from these high-level cultural barriers, social enterprises in China also face the same types of operational challenges as those in other countries, though according to Steve Koon access to funding does not top the list. The sheer scale of China\u2019s social needs dwarf the entirety of the UK social enterprise sector\u201cThe problem is always finding organisations with a scalable strategy and talented people. When I say strategy, I mean a long-term vision plus a practical five-year plan with sustainable revenues to help the organisation grow in both scale and quality of service. When I say people, I mean people with passion and commitment plus business management competence; in other words, professional managers with a sense of mission.\u201dThe sheer number of people in need is also a big problem.\u201cIn the UK, there are a lot of resources and [relatively] few people in need. In China, you have very few resources and too many people in need.\u201dHe adds that in the disability sector alone there are over 80 million people in need in China, more than the total population of the UK.\u201cThe sheer scale of China\u2019s social needs dwarf the entirety of the UK social enterprise sector.\u201dHowever, despite these issues, both investors are very optimistic about the future of social enterprise in China.Zhang believes that the sector\u2019s growth in China over the next five to 10 years will be \u201cexplosive\u201d, and expects more and more NGOs, especially in the education, medical care and elderly care industries, to adjust their approach and incorporate some revenue generating activity. Koon says: \u201cAs China\u2019s economy keeps growing, the amount of resources will increase. As the internet and smartphones become more popular, social problems also become more transparent and more people will join in to help.\u201dContent on this page is paid for and provided by the British Council, sponsor of the international social enterprise hub", "tags": ["Social Enterprise British Council Partner zone"], "title": "The shape of social enterprise in China"},{"date": "2015-05-01T08:20:53Z", "country": "china", "content": "A new bird species has been discovered in central China by an international team of scientists. This shy brown bird, named the Sichuan bush warbler, Locustella chengi, breeds in the mountainous region of the Sichuan Basin at 1000-2300 m elevation. Its winter home is currently unknown. This bird was first noticed whilst singing its distinctive song in May 1992 by two members of the research team, who thought it might be something new. After nearly two decades of searching, they found the bird again. Extensive analyses of the bird\u2019s DNA, physical measurements, plumage colour and vocalisations confirmed their hunch that this is indeed a new bird species to science.\u201cI first heard this species together with my friend Urban Olsson when we visited the sacred Emei mountain in Sichuan province, central China in May 1992\u201d, writes Per Alstr\u00f6m, a professor of systematics and evolution at Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences (Sveriges Lantbruksuniversitet) and lead author on this paper. Professor Olsson, associate professor of systematics and biodiversity at the University of Gothenburg (G\u00f6teborgs universitet), is one of the many co-authors on this paper. \u201cWe heard a song that was unfamiliar to us coming from a dense patch of tall herbs close to the trail. The song didn\u2019t sound very \u2018bird-like\u2019, and as we couldn\u2019t see a trace of any bird, we were debating for a little while whether it was a bird or some insect\u201d, recalls Professor Alstr\u00f6m.\u201cAlthough we thought it was most likely a bird.\u201dThe sound they heard was a series of repeated phrases consisting of a drawn-out harsh note followed by a shorter note. This is the sound they heard on that particular morning in May 1992 (fig.2):Eventually, the two friends caught several fleeting glimpses of a small round-bodied chocolate-brown bird with a dark stubby tail, long pink legs, large dark eyes and a pointy black beak, scampering quickly through the dense underbrush. After listening and watching for awhile, they decided this shy little bird was their singer, and that it looked rather like a russet bush warbler, Locustella mandelli (pictured below) -- a species that both men had previously seen and heard in northwest Thailand.But this bird\u2019s song was so strange! Was it really a russet bush warbler? Although neither was convinced, they couldn\u2019t be sure since they neither saw nor heard this elusive bird again during that visit.The two friends returned home to Sweden, pondering this mousy bird. Meanwhile, weeks lengthened into months and turned into years -- many years, in fact. During the ensuing decades, the two friends landed good jobs at separate universities in Sweden, relocated a few times and immersed themselves into their work, their colleagues and students, and their families. Yet neither forgot their encounter with that mysterious little chocolate-brown bird in the faraway mountains of China.Nearly twenty years later, Professor Alstr\u00f6m returned to China as a visiting professor at the Chinese Academy of Sciences. He was just as determined to find and identify this mystery bird as when he first heard it. Some of Professor Alstr\u00f6m\u2019s bird-watching colleagues in China had noticed this mystery bird, too. Soon, Professor Alstr\u00f6m and his Chinese colleagues were even discussing this species using the provisional name they\u2019d given it; \u201cSichuan bush warbler\u201d. After learning that the \u201cSichuan bush warbler\u201d and the russet bush warbler had both been found breeding in the Qinling mountains, a team was assembled to seek out both birds, to learn more about how they interacted with each other. Together with his Chinese colleagues Fumin Lei, Gang Song and Zuohua Yin from the Institute of Zoology at the Chinese Academy of Sciences in Beijing and Xuebin Gao from the Shaanxi Institute of Zoology in Xian, they mounted an expedition to the Qinling mountains, where they collected the first \u201cSichuan bush warbler\u201d on 28 May 2011. This individual is the holotype for his species, which is to say that he is the one specimen that represents what the species looks like. This specimen is now housed in the Institute of Zoology at Chinese Academy of Sciences, along with sound recordings and a sample of his DNA.Later, more individuals were spotted, captured and measured, their songs recorded and DNA samples collected. Back in the lab, mitochondrial DNA analyses of samples from birds in the genus Locustella revealed that these two bush warblers are very closely related. Further, these analyses estimated that the two species diverged from a common ancestor roughly 850,000 years ago (fig. 3).The team measured plumage colour across each bird\u2019s body as well as a variety of physical features -- length, height and width of each bird\u2019s beak, and wing and leg length, for example. Analyses of these measurements confirmed that the two species are significantly different. For example, when compared to the russet bush warbler, the Sichuan bush warbler\u2019s breeding plumage is generally greyer overall, lacking the appropriately-named russet bush warbler\u2019s strong russet tones. They also found that the Sichuan bush warbler has a shorter tail and longer wings than the russet bush warbler. The research team\u2019s field studies found that the Sichuan bush warbler is locally common, and does not appear to be under any imminent threat. By this time, the team gave this bird its formal names: its English name refers to Sichuan province where it was first discovered, and its specific name, chengi, honours the late professor Cheng Tso-hsin (1906\u20131998), China\u2019s greatest ornithologist.The Sichuan bush warbler is very similar to its closest relative, the russet bush warbler, but the two species are not identical. Which raises the question: short of carrying an automated PCR and DNA sequencer into the field -- laboratory equipment that can be as large and as heavy as a refrigerator-freezer -- how can an ornithologist or birder reliably distinguish these bird species, especially when they are hiding in an impenetrable bush, as they tend to do?This is where the science and the art of bird watching meet because identifying birds requires careful study of the bird in the field combined with a deep knowledge of each species\u2019 natural history. In the case of these two cryptic species, several characters help distinguish them. First, the russet bush warbler\u2019s range (orange dots, fig. 1) is not identical to that of the Sichuan bush warbler (red dots, fig. 1). Second, even where their ranges overlap, as in parts of Sichuan Province, the two species breed at different elevations: the Sichuan bush warbler nests on lower mountainsides (fig. 4, left) whilst the russet bush warbler nests at higher altitudes (fig. 4, right).But the most obvious difference of all, especially for those who listen carefully to birds, is song. The Sichuan bush warbler sings a lower-pitched song with more drawn out notes (fig. 2) compared to the russet bush warbler (fig. 5):Not only do these two species\u2019 songs sound dramatically different, but a side-by-side comparison between the sonograms created from their song elements also look strikingly different (figure 6):Discoveries provoke questions, and this newly identified species will likely trigger a plethora of interesting research, particularly about evolution and the process of speciation in birds. For example, understanding how the common ancestor of these two bird species came to differentially exploit past environments could shed more light upon the complex relationships between evolution, ecology, geology and climate. Of course, such an investigation is made more challenging by the lack of fossils.As an ornithologist and birder, a basic question that I\u2019ve been pondering is which came first, the song or the species? Song is an important form of communication in birds. They use it to maintain their breeding territories, to advertise their overall fitness, and to attract mates. Since female songbirds choose their mates based on their songs, ornithologists are investigating how female choice influences the evolution of male song. These two, nearly identical, species that inhabit distinct niches and produce distinct songs could provide more insight into these two intersecting processes.Another interesting question is the relationship between birdsong and habitat: did these two species\u2019 songs evolve so they each travel most effectively through the particular niche that the singers live in? Research has shown that birds living in dense vegetation with a complex structure (a rainforest, basically) tend to sing songs with narrow bandwidths, low frequencies, drawn-out song elements and longer inter-element intervals, whereas birds that sing songs with broad bandwidths, high frequencies, short song elements and compressed inter-element intervals tend to live in more open habitats that lack obstructive vegetation (grasslands and the like). But you don\u2019t need to be a scientist or a birdwatcher to appreciate and be excited by the discovery of new species. Professor Alstr\u00f6m pointed out in email: \u201cALL living organisms are interesting, and there are SO MANY cool creatures all over the world that are thoroughly enjoyable to observe.\u201dPer Alstro\u0308m, Canwei Xia, Pamela C Rasmussen, Urban Olsson, Bo Dai, Jian Zhao, Paul J Leader, Geoff J Carey, Lu Dong, Tianlong Cai, Paul I Holt, Hung Le Manh, Gang Song, Yang Liu, Yanyun Zhang and Fumin Lei (2015). Integrative taxonomy of the Russet Bush Warbler Locustella mandelli complex reveals a new species from central China, Avian Research, 6 (9) doi:10.1186/s40657-015-0016-z (OA)Per Alstr\u00f6m [emails: 19, 20, 27-3o April & 1 May 2015]Pam Rasmussen [emails: 28 April 2015]Background:Alstr\u00f6m P., Fregin S., Norman J.A., Ericson P.G.P., Christidis L. & Olsson U. (2011). Multilocus analysis of a taxonomically densely sampled dataset reveal extensive non-monophyly in the avian family Locustellidae, Molecular phylogenetics and evolution, 58 513-526. doi:10.1016/j.ympev.2010.12.012 (\u20a4 [Free PDF summarising main findings])... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..When she\u2019s not out birding or trying to hack audio embed codes, GrrlScientist is very active on twitter @GrrlScientist and sometimes lurks on social media: facebook, G+, LinkedIn, and Pinterest.", "tags": ["Science", "Animal behaviour", "Biology", "Zoology", "Taxonomy", "Animals", "Birds", "Birdwatching", "Environment", "Wildlife", "China", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New bird species discovered in a bush in China | @GrrlScientist"},{"date": "2015-05-26T18:28:22Z", "country": "china", "content": "China unveiled a military strategy on Tuesday to project naval power further from its own shores and announced plans for two lighthouses on reefs in the South China Sea, moves likely to increase tensions with Washington and regional powers over the disputed waters.A white paper issued by China\u2019s state council, or cabinet, said the navy will shift from a policy of defending offshore waters to a combined goal of \u201coffshore waters defence and open seas protection\u201d.  Related: Taiwan proposes South China Sea peace plan to avert 'major conflict' Several regional powers including the Philippines and Vietnam have overlapping claims in the South China Sea, one of the world\u2019s busiest shipping routes.The high seas were one of four \u201ccritical security domains\u201d highlighted in the paper, the others being outer space, cyberspace and nuclear force, although the white paper underlined that China wants to avoid a nuclear arms race or the weaponisation of space.In the more immediate naval sphere, however, Beijing appears more assertive. The paper also warned distant powers against \u201cprovocative\u201d actions and interference in South China Sea affairs, an apparent reference to Washington\u2019s very publicly-aired concerns about a large-scale Chinese land reclamation project around mostly uninhabited reefs and atolls in the disputed waters.The Chinese works are turning submerged reefs into airstrips, and creating thousands of hectares of dry land on artificial islands, with the pace of construction speeding up in recent months. One of the biggest US concerns is land reclamation on reef formations that would not otherwise allow China to claim territorial waters because they are submerged at high tide and not capable of supporting independent life. Xinhua on Tuesday published pictures of lighthouse construction on two coral reefs, Chigua and Huayang, showing a groundbreaking ceremony that was perhaps more likely to involve ground creation.\u201cThe ministry of transport plans to construct two multi-functional lighthouses, which will provide efficient navigation service to the passing vessels and immensely improve the navigation safety in the South China Sea,\u201d Xinhua said in a report.Plans to ramp up the US military presence in the area would probably involve flying over and sailing close to artificial islands that were only reefs before the latest building project, and China last week issued multiple warnings to a US plane flying above Fiery Cross reef, where China has built an early-warning radar station and airstrip.Defence ministry spokesman Yang Yujun said that the country\u2019s reclamation activities were comparable with development of homes, roads and other infrastructure on the mainland.\u201cFrom the perspective of sovereignty, there is absolutely no difference,\u201d Yan told a news conference to launch the new military white paper. Some countries with \u201culterior motives\u201d had unfairly characterized China\u2019s military presence and sensationalised the issue, Reuters reported.The dispute has pushed together regional powers who a few years ago might have been as wary of neighbours with claims on the islands as they were of Beijing.The Philippines have backed the US, and President Benigno Aquinosaid this week that they will continue to fly over the disputed areas despite Chinese warnings.\u201cWe will still fly the routes that we fly based on the international law from the various conventions we entered into,\u201d the AFP news agency quoted him saying.The country\u2019s defence minister also said he would ask for more defence equipment from Tokyo, the same day that Japan also agreed to bolster security and maritime safety ties with Malaysia and start talks on transfers of defence equipment and technology.", "tags": ["China", "Philippines", "Vietnam", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Japan", "Malaysia"], "title": "South China Sea tensions escalate as China unveils plans for lighthouses"},{"date": "2015-06-13T11:00:07Z", "country": "china", "content": "Joyce\u2019s image in China holds a strange fascination in the west. When the first third of Finnegans Wake, his last and most notoriously difficult book, was published in Shanghai in 2013, newspapers in Britain and America greeted the announcement as a momentous event. Certainly, the salient details of the story are arresting: 72 years had passed since the publication of the novel in London in 1941; seven years had elapsed since Dai Congrong had agreed to undertake the formidable task of translation; and when the book appeared between luxuriously silky dark-green boards, heavy with pages of explanatory notes, it became an immediate commercial success.By what miracles of linguistic mastery and literary imagination could Chinese characters be made to capture Joyce\u2019s mind-bending manipulations of the alphabet? By what subtleties of cross-cultural understanding could the specificities of Ireland and its mythologies be translated for a Chinese audience? Could the translation be trusted if it made Finnegans Wake a bestseller?When Ulysses was first published in Paris in 1922, Joyce responded with delight to news that an order had been placed from China: \u201cTen copies to Peking!\u201d he exclaimed. Ulysses, even more than Finnegans Wake, is alive in China today. Two Joyce-themed stage productions have recently toured major Chinese cities. Both are the brainchildren of Andy Arnold, the artistic director of Glasgow\u2019s Tron theatre, and form part of a programme of performances for a UK-China Year of Cultural Exchange. The first, A Journey Round James Joyce, offers an elegantly devised biographical reimagining of Joyce\u2019s life in Trieste between 1905 and 1915. The second, Ulysses, is a revival of the Tron\u2019s successful 2012 production of Dermot Bolger\u2019s adaptation (A Dublin Bloom, 1996). They performed to full and enthusiastic houses in Beijing, Shanghai, Hangzhou and Jinan.For much of the 20th century, Joyce\u2019s name was not one to be lightly pronounced or printed in China. Even as late as 1982 \u2013 as Jin Di, Ulysses\u2019s first translator, reports \u2013 a state official commenting on the centenary of Joyce\u2019s birth described the world of Leopold Bloom as \u201cshocking in its pettiness, obscurity, ugliness, and confusion\u201d and as emblematic of \u201cthe decadence of the modern bourgeoisie\u201d.Yet by 1996, not one but two versions of Ulysses were available to Chinese readers. The novel sold very well, and western newspapers, as they would later about Finnegans Wake, commented on Ulysses\u2019s bestseller status in China with a mixture of excitement and bemusement. But the book\u2019s journey had in a sense only begun. Works of such length and complexity take time to percolate into a nation\u2019s living rooms and classrooms. These days, if you ask about James Joyce \u2013 or \u201cZhanmusi Qiaoyisi\u201d, as his name is transliterated in Chinese pinyin \u2013 in a Chinese bookshop you will be led to shelves lined with relevant volumes. The vast five-floor Xinhua bookshop on Wangfujing, a crowded shopping avenue just round the corner from Tiananmen Square, currently stocks no fewer than four different editions of Ulysses \u2013 one in English, and three in Chinese. Copies of Dubliners, A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man, Exiles and Finnegans Wake are also available.The tastes and identifications of China\u2019s expanding and dynamic middle class are part of the explanation for this renaissance. Where Joyce stood for bourgeois corruption only three decades ago, he now stands for cosmopolitan sophistication. Chinese people have an affectionate epithet for those particularly enamoured of the western way of life and its consumer comforts: they call such internationally minded bourgeois \u201cxiaozi\u201d \u2013 literally, \u201clittle capitalists\u201d. It is to a large degree such educated \u201cxiaozi\u201d who are driving the success of Arnold\u2019s plays.A Journey Round James Joyce was conceived specifically with China in mind. Performed in Chinese by Chinese actors, the play conjures Joyce and Nora Barnacle\u2019s departure from Ireland, Joyce\u2019s carousing in the bars of Trieste, the language lessons he gave to make a living, Nora\u2019s housekeeping and henpecking, his writing and its connections to his experiences in exile. The script consists of an ingenious collage of quotations assembled from many corners of Joyce\u2019s works and letters. In its departures from biographical fact and disruptions of chronological sequence, A Journey Round James Joyce bears some likeness to the theatrical fantasy by which Tom Stoppard imagined Joyce\u2019s life in Z\u00fcrich in Travesties in 1974. Yet the tone of this piece is quite different, fluctuating between broad comedy and romance, tension and melodrama.To western eyes, the sight and sound of a Chinese James Joyce and Nora Barnacle is completely disorienting (Joyce\u2019s recognisable glasses are at first the only obvious echo of a familiar story) and a thought-provoking reminder of the extent of the differences translations have to negotiate. As the play unfolds, snippets of the Irish songs and Italian operas Joyce loved (\u201cDown by the Salley Gardens\u201d, Madame Butterfly) add to the international ambiance of the Journey. The costumes and the exquisitely minimalist set are the fruits of Arnold\u2019s collaboration with Beijing\u2019s Xinchan theatre.Arnold\u2019s Ulysses is a wilder piece of theatre. Performed in English with Chinese surtitles, the play stages a recapitulation of all the novel\u2019s best-known moments \u2013 a \u201cgreatest hits\u201d formula. But the play makes great demands on anyone encountering Joyce\u2019s world for the first time: it would be fairly difficult, without prior knowledge of the book, and without a sense of the Dublin world in which it is rooted, to make head or tail of the spectacular whirligig of scenes by which Arnold recreates the events of Bloomsday.The play inverts the chronology of Joyce\u2019s book by presenting the events of 16 June 1904 as the stuff of Bloom\u2019s dreams after his return to the marital bed in the early hours of the following morning. The re-enactment of the key moments of his day is interwoven with excerpts from his wife Molly\u2019s famous closing soliloquy.What the Tron emphatically brings to Ulysses is the inventive energy and the daring to engage with a classic text. Joyce\u2019s odyssey in China, and the drama of east and west captured in its moving hall of mirrors, continues.", "tags": ["James Joyce", "Books", "Culture", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Radio", "Television", "BBC", "Media", "Television & radio"], "title": "James Joyce \u2013 big in China"},{"date": "2015-05-13T12:43:05Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has warned the United States not to take \u201crisky or provocative actions\u201d in a dispute over territorial claims in the South China Sea, as Washington contemplates a stronger stance in the area.The US defence secretary, Ash Carter, concerned about China\u2019s rapid expansion of artificial islands, has asked staff to look at options including sending ships and planes closer to reefs claimed by Beijing, the Wall Street Journal reported. China\u2019s foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told a news conference: \u201cWe are seriously concerned about the remarks on this issue by the US, and we think the US needs to make a clarification.\u201dShe said China respected the freedom of navigation for international traffic in the area, but that did not allow warships and military planes to enter territorial waters and airspace.\u201cChina will resolutely safeguard its own sovereignty. We call on the relevant parties to be cautious with their words and actions, and not take any risky or provocative actions,\u201d Hua said.The US has long insisted that it does not take sides in the complex territorial disputes in the region, but there have been growing tensions in recent months over China\u2019s aggressive land reclamation projects in the Spratly Islands.Several regional powers including the Philippines and Vietnam have overlapping claims to the area, mostly uninhabited reefs and atolls that lie in one of the world\u2019s busiest shipping routes.For years those claims were contested mostly by ships or between officials, but in recent years Beijing decided to reinforce its claims by expanding its territory. Since last year, building projects have quadrupled the size of artificial islands in Chinese-claimed areas, to 2,000 hectares. The projects include an airstrip that could be large enough for fighter jets and surveillance aircraft, the Wall Street Journal quoted the defence intelligence provider IHS Jane\u2019s as saying.The report said the change in US stance would involve flying over and sailing close to artificial islands that were only reefs before the latest building project. China says its territorial waters extend for 12 nautical miles from the land, a line that the US has challenged verbally but until now ordered its navy to respect.Some regional allies want the US to take a stronger stance in challenging China, while others fear that ratcheting up the pressure only raises the risk of military confrontation and could encourage Beijing to speed up building work even more, the report said.The White House would have to sign off on any change in the US posture, and the Wall Street Journal said it had declined to comment.Luna Lin contributed research to this article", "tags": ["China", "US foreign policy", "US news", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China urges caution from US over South China Sea disputes"},{"date": "2015-05-07T15:09:13Z", "country": "china", "content": "Steve Koon, the founding partner of Innovate99 Impact Investment, and Robin Zhang, founding partner of Venture Avenue, are two of a growing number of Chinese social investors. They have partnered with the British Council for over five years to provide training, mentoring and funding opportunities to social enterprises in China. We asked them about the sector\u2019s evolution and the opportunities and challenges that lie ahead. While China\u2019s economy has enjoyed near 10% growth for over 30 years, public services have been under strain from the weight of the world\u2019s largest population, massive rural migration to the cities and the restructuring of public health services. Moreover, the country is rapidly ageing: there are now some 200 million Chinese over the age of 60, accounting for almost 15% of the population, and their number is set to carry on rising. This coupled with its other social and environmental issues means that China is in serious need of new approaches to public services.That\u2019s where social enterprise, which is now beginning to take off, could really make a difference. \u201cSocial enterprises can target people who can pay to generate profits to subsidise those who can\u2019t pay\u201d says Koon. \u201cThe key is to go beyond the \u2018free and government subsidy\u2019 models to develop market-based solutions.\u201dKoon goes on to say that \u201celderly services and special education are the two sectors most suitable for social enterprise solutions. [They] can deliver the most impact and financial return because of the possibility of building up a scalable business model.\u201dZhang likewise sees opportunities in helping NGOs working in education, medical care and elderly care adopt revenue generating social enterprise models. Moreover, he believes that \u201curban inclusion of migrant workers and connecting small rural economies to cities\u201d is a highly promising area of work for social enterprises in China. \u201cThese two issues impact on reducing the gap between rural and urban China, and help improve social stability,\u201d he adds.China\u2019s meteoric rise has caused many changes in Chinese society \u2013 and these have been reflected in the development of social enterprise over its relatively short existence. Both investors have seen an increase in the scale and number of social enterprises in China in recent years, but it is another change that has most profoundly marked the sector\u2019s evolution. \u201cWhen we started in 2009, most of the participants [in social enterprise training programmes] were from traditional NGOs and grassroots charity organisations. In the last couple of years, however, we began to have more participants from the business sector,\u201d says Koon.Zhang goes on to say that \u201c[these] \u2018newcomers\u2019 from the business world [are] converting their already successful enterprises into social enterprises.\u201dWhile this brought more activity, business experience and capital to the social enterprise sector, it also created new challenges.As Koon puts it: \u201cAt the beginning, the needs were very one-way: how to change from non-profits to social enterprises. As more participants from the business sector joined, another need emerged; changing from a commercial organisation to a social enterprise. The needs changed from a \u2018one-way street to a two-way highway\u2019.\u201cThe scale was also becoming bigger. We had organisations whose annual budget ranged from 100,000 renminbi to a few million [\u00a310,000 to a few hundred thousand]. Some were just serving a few people while others were helping hundreds or even thousands of people.\u201dZhang adds that \u201cwhile the old social enterprises need more incubation services, the new social enterprises need more validation that what they are doing is meaningful, and therefore valued by society.\u201dA major barrier to the development of social enterprise in China is the fact that it enjoys no legal definition or formal government recognition. And after a few well publicised scandals involving NGOs, there is deep mistrust of allowing businesses engaged in seemingly charitable causes to pay dividends to shareholders \u2013 something which is at the core of some social enterprise concepts but also debated in the west.Aside from these high-level cultural barriers, social enterprises in China also face the same types of operational challenges as those in other countries, though according to Steve Koon access to funding does not top the list. The sheer scale of China\u2019s social needs dwarf the entirety of the UK social enterprise sector\u201cThe problem is always finding organisations with a scalable strategy and talented people. When I say strategy, I mean a long-term vision plus a practical five-year plan with sustainable revenues to help the organisation grow in both scale and quality of service. When I say people, I mean people with passion and commitment plus business management competence; in other words, professional managers with a sense of mission.\u201dThe sheer number of people in need is also a big problem.\u201cIn the UK, there are a lot of resources and [relatively] few people in need. In China, you have very few resources and too many people in need.\u201dHe adds that in the disability sector alone there are over 80 million people in need in China, more than the total population of the UK.\u201cThe sheer scale of China\u2019s social needs dwarf the entirety of the UK social enterprise sector.\u201dHowever, despite these issues, both investors are very optimistic about the future of social enterprise in China.Zhang believes that the sector\u2019s growth in China over the next five to 10 years will be \u201cexplosive\u201d, and expects more and more NGOs, especially in the education, medical care and elderly care industries, to adjust their approach and incorporate some revenue generating activity. Koon says: \u201cAs China\u2019s economy keeps growing, the amount of resources will increase. As the internet and smartphones become more popular, social problems also become more transparent and more people will join in to help.\u201dContent on this page is paid for and provided by the British Council, sponsor of the international social enterprise hub", "tags": ["Social Enterprise British Council Partner zone"], "title": "The shape of social enterprise in China"},{"date": "2015-05-01T08:20:53Z", "country": "china", "content": "A new bird species has been discovered in central China by an international team of scientists. This shy brown bird, named the Sichuan bush warbler, Locustella chengi, breeds in the mountainous region of the Sichuan Basin at 1000-2300 m elevation. Its winter home is currently unknown. This bird was first noticed whilst singing its distinctive song in May 1992 by two members of the research team, who thought it might be something new. After nearly two decades of searching, they found the bird again. Extensive analyses of the bird\u2019s DNA, physical measurements, plumage colour and vocalisations confirmed their hunch that this is indeed a new bird species to science.\u201cI first heard this species together with my friend Urban Olsson when we visited the sacred Emei mountain in Sichuan province, central China in May 1992\u201d, writes Per Alstr\u00f6m, a professor of systematics and evolution at Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences (Sveriges Lantbruksuniversitet) and lead author on this paper. Professor Olsson, associate professor of systematics and biodiversity at the University of Gothenburg (G\u00f6teborgs universitet), is one of the many co-authors on this paper. \u201cWe heard a song that was unfamiliar to us coming from a dense patch of tall herbs close to the trail. The song didn\u2019t sound very \u2018bird-like\u2019, and as we couldn\u2019t see a trace of any bird, we were debating for a little while whether it was a bird or some insect\u201d, recalls Professor Alstr\u00f6m.\u201cAlthough we thought it was most likely a bird.\u201dThe sound they heard was a series of repeated phrases consisting of a drawn-out harsh note followed by a shorter note. This is the sound they heard on that particular morning in May 1992 (fig.2):Eventually, the two friends caught several fleeting glimpses of a small round-bodied chocolate-brown bird with a dark stubby tail, long pink legs, large dark eyes and a pointy black beak, scampering quickly through the dense underbrush. After listening and watching for awhile, they decided this shy little bird was their singer, and that it looked rather like a russet bush warbler, Locustella mandelli (pictured below) -- a species that both men had previously seen and heard in northwest Thailand.But this bird\u2019s song was so strange! Was it really a russet bush warbler? Although neither was convinced, they couldn\u2019t be sure since they neither saw nor heard this elusive bird again during that visit.The two friends returned home to Sweden, pondering this mousy bird. Meanwhile, weeks lengthened into months and turned into years -- many years, in fact. During the ensuing decades, the two friends landed good jobs at separate universities in Sweden, relocated a few times and immersed themselves into their work, their colleagues and students, and their families. Yet neither forgot their encounter with that mysterious little chocolate-brown bird in the faraway mountains of China.Nearly twenty years later, Professor Alstr\u00f6m returned to China as a visiting professor at the Chinese Academy of Sciences. He was just as determined to find and identify this mystery bird as when he first heard it. Some of Professor Alstr\u00f6m\u2019s bird-watching colleagues in China had noticed this mystery bird, too. Soon, Professor Alstr\u00f6m and his Chinese colleagues were even discussing this species using the provisional name they\u2019d given it; \u201cSichuan bush warbler\u201d. After learning that the \u201cSichuan bush warbler\u201d and the russet bush warbler had both been found breeding in the Qinling mountains, a team was assembled to seek out both birds, to learn more about how they interacted with each other. Together with his Chinese colleagues Fumin Lei, Gang Song and Zuohua Yin from the Institute of Zoology at the Chinese Academy of Sciences in Beijing and Xuebin Gao from the Shaanxi Institute of Zoology in Xian, they mounted an expedition to the Qinling mountains, where they collected the first \u201cSichuan bush warbler\u201d on 28 May 2011. This individual is the holotype for his species, which is to say that he is the one specimen that represents what the species looks like. This specimen is now housed in the Institute of Zoology at Chinese Academy of Sciences, along with sound recordings and a sample of his DNA.Later, more individuals were spotted, captured and measured, their songs recorded and DNA samples collected. Back in the lab, mitochondrial DNA analyses of samples from birds in the genus Locustella revealed that these two bush warblers are very closely related. Further, these analyses estimated that the two species diverged from a common ancestor roughly 850,000 years ago (fig. 3).The team measured plumage colour across each bird\u2019s body as well as a variety of physical features -- length, height and width of each bird\u2019s beak, and wing and leg length, for example. Analyses of these measurements confirmed that the two species are significantly different. For example, when compared to the russet bush warbler, the Sichuan bush warbler\u2019s breeding plumage is generally greyer overall, lacking the appropriately-named russet bush warbler\u2019s strong russet tones. They also found that the Sichuan bush warbler has a shorter tail and longer wings than the russet bush warbler. The research team\u2019s field studies found that the Sichuan bush warbler is locally common, and does not appear to be under any imminent threat. By this time, the team gave this bird its formal names: its English name refers to Sichuan province where it was first discovered, and its specific name, chengi, honours the late professor Cheng Tso-hsin (1906\u20131998), China\u2019s greatest ornithologist.The Sichuan bush warbler is very similar to its closest relative, the russet bush warbler, but the two species are not identical. Which raises the question: short of carrying an automated PCR and DNA sequencer into the field -- laboratory equipment that can be as large and as heavy as a refrigerator-freezer -- how can an ornithologist or birder reliably distinguish these bird species, especially when they are hiding in an impenetrable bush, as they tend to do?This is where the science and the art of bird watching meet because identifying birds requires careful study of the bird in the field combined with a deep knowledge of each species\u2019 natural history. In the case of these two cryptic species, several characters help distinguish them. First, the russet bush warbler\u2019s range (orange dots, fig. 1) is not identical to that of the Sichuan bush warbler (red dots, fig. 1). Second, even where their ranges overlap, as in parts of Sichuan Province, the two species breed at different elevations: the Sichuan bush warbler nests on lower mountainsides (fig. 4, left) whilst the russet bush warbler nests at higher altitudes (fig. 4, right).But the most obvious difference of all, especially for those who listen carefully to birds, is song. The Sichuan bush warbler sings a lower-pitched song with more drawn out notes (fig. 2) compared to the russet bush warbler (fig. 5):Not only do these two species\u2019 songs sound dramatically different, but a side-by-side comparison between the sonograms created from their song elements also look strikingly different (figure 6):Discoveries provoke questions, and this newly identified species will likely trigger a plethora of interesting research, particularly about evolution and the process of speciation in birds. For example, understanding how the common ancestor of these two bird species came to differentially exploit past environments could shed more light upon the complex relationships between evolution, ecology, geology and climate. Of course, such an investigation is made more challenging by the lack of fossils.As an ornithologist and birder, a basic question that I\u2019ve been pondering is which came first, the song or the species? Song is an important form of communication in birds. They use it to maintain their breeding territories, to advertise their overall fitness, and to attract mates. Since female songbirds choose their mates based on their songs, ornithologists are investigating how female choice influences the evolution of male song. These two, nearly identical, species that inhabit distinct niches and produce distinct songs could provide more insight into these two intersecting processes.Another interesting question is the relationship between birdsong and habitat: did these two species\u2019 songs evolve so they each travel most effectively through the particular niche that the singers live in? Research has shown that birds living in dense vegetation with a complex structure (a rainforest, basically) tend to sing songs with narrow bandwidths, low frequencies, drawn-out song elements and longer inter-element intervals, whereas birds that sing songs with broad bandwidths, high frequencies, short song elements and compressed inter-element intervals tend to live in more open habitats that lack obstructive vegetation (grasslands and the like). But you don\u2019t need to be a scientist or a birdwatcher to appreciate and be excited by the discovery of new species. Professor Alstr\u00f6m pointed out in email: \u201cALL living organisms are interesting, and there are SO MANY cool creatures all over the world that are thoroughly enjoyable to observe.\u201dPer Alstro\u0308m, Canwei Xia, Pamela C Rasmussen, Urban Olsson, Bo Dai, Jian Zhao, Paul J Leader, Geoff J Carey, Lu Dong, Tianlong Cai, Paul I Holt, Hung Le Manh, Gang Song, Yang Liu, Yanyun Zhang and Fumin Lei (2015). Integrative taxonomy of the Russet Bush Warbler Locustella mandelli complex reveals a new species from central China, Avian Research, 6 (9) doi:10.1186/s40657-015-0016-z (OA)Per Alstr\u00f6m [emails: 19, 20, 27-3o April & 1 May 2015]Pam Rasmussen [emails: 28 April 2015]Background:Alstr\u00f6m P., Fregin S., Norman J.A., Ericson P.G.P., Christidis L. & Olsson U. (2011). Multilocus analysis of a taxonomically densely sampled dataset reveal extensive non-monophyly in the avian family Locustellidae, Molecular phylogenetics and evolution, 58 513-526. doi:10.1016/j.ympev.2010.12.012 (\u20a4 [Free PDF summarising main findings])... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..When she\u2019s not out birding or trying to hack audio embed codes, GrrlScientist is very active on twitter @GrrlScientist and sometimes lurks on social media: facebook, G+, LinkedIn, and Pinterest.", "tags": ["Science", "Animal behaviour", "Biology", "Zoology", "Taxonomy", "Animals", "Birds", "Birdwatching", "Environment", "Wildlife", "China", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New bird species discovered in a bush in China | @GrrlScientist"},{"date": "2015-05-26T18:28:22Z", "country": "china", "content": "China unveiled a military strategy on Tuesday to project naval power further from its own shores and announced plans for two lighthouses on reefs in the South China Sea, moves likely to increase tensions with Washington and regional powers over the disputed waters.A white paper issued by China\u2019s state council, or cabinet, said the navy will shift from a policy of defending offshore waters to a combined goal of \u201coffshore waters defence and open seas protection\u201d.  Related: Taiwan proposes South China Sea peace plan to avert 'major conflict' Several regional powers including the Philippines and Vietnam have overlapping claims in the South China Sea, one of the world\u2019s busiest shipping routes.The high seas were one of four \u201ccritical security domains\u201d highlighted in the paper, the others being outer space, cyberspace and nuclear force, although the white paper underlined that China wants to avoid a nuclear arms race or the weaponisation of space.In the more immediate naval sphere, however, Beijing appears more assertive. The paper also warned distant powers against \u201cprovocative\u201d actions and interference in South China Sea affairs, an apparent reference to Washington\u2019s very publicly-aired concerns about a large-scale Chinese land reclamation project around mostly uninhabited reefs and atolls in the disputed waters.The Chinese works are turning submerged reefs into airstrips, and creating thousands of hectares of dry land on artificial islands, with the pace of construction speeding up in recent months. One of the biggest US concerns is land reclamation on reef formations that would not otherwise allow China to claim territorial waters because they are submerged at high tide and not capable of supporting independent life. Xinhua on Tuesday published pictures of lighthouse construction on two coral reefs, Chigua and Huayang, showing a groundbreaking ceremony that was perhaps more likely to involve ground creation.\u201cThe ministry of transport plans to construct two multi-functional lighthouses, which will provide efficient navigation service to the passing vessels and immensely improve the navigation safety in the South China Sea,\u201d Xinhua said in a report.Plans to ramp up the US military presence in the area would probably involve flying over and sailing close to artificial islands that were only reefs before the latest building project, and China last week issued multiple warnings to a US plane flying above Fiery Cross reef, where China has built an early-warning radar station and airstrip.Defence ministry spokesman Yang Yujun said that the country\u2019s reclamation activities were comparable with development of homes, roads and other infrastructure on the mainland.\u201cFrom the perspective of sovereignty, there is absolutely no difference,\u201d Yan told a news conference to launch the new military white paper. Some countries with \u201culterior motives\u201d had unfairly characterized China\u2019s military presence and sensationalised the issue, Reuters reported.The dispute has pushed together regional powers who a few years ago might have been as wary of neighbours with claims on the islands as they were of Beijing.The Philippines have backed the US, and President Benigno Aquinosaid this week that they will continue to fly over the disputed areas despite Chinese warnings.\u201cWe will still fly the routes that we fly based on the international law from the various conventions we entered into,\u201d the AFP news agency quoted him saying.The country\u2019s defence minister also said he would ask for more defence equipment from Tokyo, the same day that Japan also agreed to bolster security and maritime safety ties with Malaysia and start talks on transfers of defence equipment and technology.", "tags": ["China", "Philippines", "Vietnam", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Japan", "Malaysia"], "title": "South China Sea tensions escalate as China unveils plans for lighthouses"},{"date": "2015-06-30T13:26:46Z", "country": "china", "content": "China will aim to cut its greenhouse gas emissions per unit of gross domestic product by 60-65% from 2005 levels under a plan submitted to the United Nations ahead of crucial climate change talks in Paris later this year.The pledge has been eagerly awaited as the country is the world\u2019s largest carbon emitter. China said it would increase the share of non-fossil fuels as part of its primary energy consumption to about 20% by 2030, and peak emissions by around the same point, though it would \u201cwork hard\u201d to do so earlier. The figures are contained in a document submitted to the United Nations ahead of the next round of UN climate talks in Paris. All countries are expected to submit their national pledges to reduce carbon emissions beyond 2020, also known as Intended Nationally Determined Contributions (INDC).China plans to increase its installed capacity of wind power to 200GW and solar power to around 100 gigawatts (GW), up from 95.81GW and 28GW today, respectively. It will also increase its use of natural gas which is expected to make up more than 10% of its primary energy consumption by 2020. According to estimates by E3G, a European-based environmental thinktank, China\u2019s plan will see it install as much low-carbon energy as the entire US electricity system capacity to date. China\u2019s pledge largely reflects commitments it made in November last year as part of an agreement struck with the US. Li Shuo, senior climate and energy policy officer with Greenpeace, said he believes the figures announced are floor figures and that China is definitely capable of over-achieving. He said it reflects the actions that are being taken domestically as China attempts to reduce its toxic levels of air pollution that are a result of its rapid coal-based economic growth. China\u2019s premier Li Keqiang has previously \u201cdeclared war\u201d on pollution, describing it as a \u201cblight\u201d on people\u2019s quality of life. Coal consumption still accounts for around 66% of China\u2019s energy consumption. Last year, China\u2019s cabinet announced a plan to cap coal consumption by 2020 at a level of 4.2bn tonnes and for coal to make up no more than 62% of the primary energy mix by the same year.Changhua Wu, China director of the Climate Group said China\u2019s INDC is a \u201cpositive boost\u201d to the international climate change process. \u201cChina\u2019s effort to align its domestic growth agenda and global climate change agenda is a leading example of how a fundamental shift is needed to grow the economy differently,\u201d she said.In its document submitted to the UN, China said the outcomes of the negotiations in Paris \u201cshould take into account differentiated historical responsibilities\u201d, a reference to the fact developed countries have put more carbon into the atmosphere over time than developing countries.However, according to the Climate Group, due to China\u2019s massive economic development and taking into account emissions from 1990 to now, the country has almost caught up with the US\u2019s total historical emissions. China\u2019s pledge is expected to give an important boost to efforts to reach a global deal on reducing emissions beyond 2020 in Paris, which UN secretary general Ban Ki-moon warned on Monday were moving at a snail\u2019s pace. Mohamed Adow, Christian Aid\u2019s senior climate change adviser, said China\u2019s pledge is a \u201chuge step\u201d. Ahead of the talks in Copenhagen in 2009, China and the US were criticised for holding back progress, and \u201cnow China is leading the way. It shows that China is starting to do its bit. This is a new era for climate politics,\u201d said Adow. However, it is not likely that the pledges that have been submitted, including China\u2019s, are sufficient to keep global temperatures rises below the internationally-agreed target of 2C, according to Li Shuo. \u201cWe think the collective ambition of what has been putting on the table, in particular major emitters (EU, China, US) are not sufficient to help us maintain below 2C,\u201d said Li. \u201cNow it is the task of the political process all the way to Paris to ensure we have a robust agreement by the end of this year to enhance action further.\u201d ", "tags": ["COP 21: UN climate change conference | Paris", "Global climate talks", "Environment", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Climate change", "World news", "China"], "title": "China makes carbon pledge ahead of Paris climate change summit"},{"date": "2015-06-13T11:00:07Z", "country": "china", "content": "Joyce\u2019s image in China holds a strange fascination in the west. When the first third of Finnegans Wake, his last and most notoriously difficult book, was published in Shanghai in 2013, newspapers in Britain and America greeted the announcement as a momentous event. Certainly, the salient details of the story are arresting: 72 years had passed since the publication of the novel in London in 1941; seven years had elapsed since Dai Congrong had agreed to undertake the formidable task of translation; and when the book appeared between luxuriously silky dark-green boards, heavy with pages of explanatory notes, it became an immediate commercial success.By what miracles of linguistic mastery and literary imagination could Chinese characters be made to capture Joyce\u2019s mind-bending manipulations of the alphabet? By what subtleties of cross-cultural understanding could the specificities of Ireland and its mythologies be translated for a Chinese audience? Could the translation be trusted if it made Finnegans Wake a bestseller?When Ulysses was first published in Paris in 1922, Joyce responded with delight to news that an order had been placed from China: \u201cTen copies to Peking!\u201d he exclaimed. Ulysses, even more than Finnegans Wake, is alive in China today. Two Joyce-themed stage productions have recently toured major Chinese cities. Both are the brainchildren of Andy Arnold, the artistic director of Glasgow\u2019s Tron theatre, and form part of a programme of performances for a UK-China Year of Cultural Exchange. The first, A Journey Round James Joyce, offers an elegantly devised biographical reimagining of Joyce\u2019s life in Trieste between 1905 and 1915. The second, Ulysses, is a revival of the Tron\u2019s successful 2012 production of Dermot Bolger\u2019s adaptation (A Dublin Bloom, 1996). They performed to full and enthusiastic houses in Beijing, Shanghai, Hangzhou and Jinan.For much of the 20th century, Joyce\u2019s name was not one to be lightly pronounced or printed in China. Even as late as 1982 \u2013 as Jin Di, Ulysses\u2019s first translator, reports \u2013 a state official commenting on the centenary of Joyce\u2019s birth described the world of Leopold Bloom as \u201cshocking in its pettiness, obscurity, ugliness, and confusion\u201d and as emblematic of \u201cthe decadence of the modern bourgeoisie\u201d.Yet by 1996, not one but two versions of Ulysses were available to Chinese readers. The novel sold very well, and western newspapers, as they would later about Finnegans Wake, commented on Ulysses\u2019s bestseller status in China with a mixture of excitement and bemusement. But the book\u2019s journey had in a sense only begun. Works of such length and complexity take time to percolate into a nation\u2019s living rooms and classrooms. These days, if you ask about James Joyce \u2013 or \u201cZhanmusi Qiaoyisi\u201d, as his name is transliterated in Chinese pinyin \u2013 in a Chinese bookshop you will be led to shelves lined with relevant volumes. The vast five-floor Xinhua bookshop on Wangfujing, a crowded shopping avenue just round the corner from Tiananmen Square, currently stocks no fewer than four different editions of Ulysses \u2013 one in English, and three in Chinese. Copies of Dubliners, A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man, Exiles and Finnegans Wake are also available.The tastes and identifications of China\u2019s expanding and dynamic middle class are part of the explanation for this renaissance. Where Joyce stood for bourgeois corruption only three decades ago, he now stands for cosmopolitan sophistication. Chinese people have an affectionate epithet for those particularly enamoured of the western way of life and its consumer comforts: they call such internationally minded bourgeois \u201cxiaozi\u201d \u2013 literally, \u201clittle capitalists\u201d. It is to a large degree such educated \u201cxiaozi\u201d who are driving the success of Arnold\u2019s plays.A Journey Round James Joyce was conceived specifically with China in mind. Performed in Chinese by Chinese actors, the play conjures Joyce and Nora Barnacle\u2019s departure from Ireland, Joyce\u2019s carousing in the bars of Trieste, the language lessons he gave to make a living, Nora\u2019s housekeeping and henpecking, his writing and its connections to his experiences in exile. The script consists of an ingenious collage of quotations assembled from many corners of Joyce\u2019s works and letters. In its departures from biographical fact and disruptions of chronological sequence, A Journey Round James Joyce bears some likeness to the theatrical fantasy by which Tom Stoppard imagined Joyce\u2019s life in Z\u00fcrich in Travesties in 1974. Yet the tone of this piece is quite different, fluctuating between broad comedy and romance, tension and melodrama.To western eyes, the sight and sound of a Chinese James Joyce and Nora Barnacle is completely disorienting (Joyce\u2019s recognisable glasses are at first the only obvious echo of a familiar story) and a thought-provoking reminder of the extent of the differences translations have to negotiate. As the play unfolds, snippets of the Irish songs and Italian operas Joyce loved (\u201cDown by the Salley Gardens\u201d, Madame Butterfly) add to the international ambiance of the Journey. The costumes and the exquisitely minimalist set are the fruits of Arnold\u2019s collaboration with Beijing\u2019s Xinchan theatre.Arnold\u2019s Ulysses is a wilder piece of theatre. Performed in English with Chinese surtitles, the play stages a recapitulation of all the novel\u2019s best-known moments \u2013 a \u201cgreatest hits\u201d formula. But the play makes great demands on anyone encountering Joyce\u2019s world for the first time: it would be fairly difficult, without prior knowledge of the book, and without a sense of the Dublin world in which it is rooted, to make head or tail of the spectacular whirligig of scenes by which Arnold recreates the events of Bloomsday.The play inverts the chronology of Joyce\u2019s book by presenting the events of 16 June 1904 as the stuff of Bloom\u2019s dreams after his return to the marital bed in the early hours of the following morning. The re-enactment of the key moments of his day is interwoven with excerpts from his wife Molly\u2019s famous closing soliloquy.What the Tron emphatically brings to Ulysses is the inventive energy and the daring to engage with a classic text. Joyce\u2019s odyssey in China, and the drama of east and west captured in its moving hall of mirrors, continues.", "tags": ["James Joyce", "Books", "Culture", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Radio", "Television", "BBC", "Media", "Television & radio"], "title": "James Joyce \u2013 big in China"},{"date": "2015-05-13T12:43:05Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has warned the United States not to take \u201crisky or provocative actions\u201d in a dispute over territorial claims in the South China Sea, as Washington contemplates a stronger stance in the area.The US defence secretary, Ash Carter, concerned about China\u2019s rapid expansion of artificial islands, has asked staff to look at options including sending ships and planes closer to reefs claimed by Beijing, the Wall Street Journal reported. China\u2019s foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told a news conference: \u201cWe are seriously concerned about the remarks on this issue by the US, and we think the US needs to make a clarification.\u201dShe said China respected the freedom of navigation for international traffic in the area, but that did not allow warships and military planes to enter territorial waters and airspace.\u201cChina will resolutely safeguard its own sovereignty. We call on the relevant parties to be cautious with their words and actions, and not take any risky or provocative actions,\u201d Hua said.The US has long insisted that it does not take sides in the complex territorial disputes in the region, but there have been growing tensions in recent months over China\u2019s aggressive land reclamation projects in the Spratly Islands.Several regional powers including the Philippines and Vietnam have overlapping claims to the area, mostly uninhabited reefs and atolls that lie in one of the world\u2019s busiest shipping routes.For years those claims were contested mostly by ships or between officials, but in recent years Beijing decided to reinforce its claims by expanding its territory. Since last year, building projects have quadrupled the size of artificial islands in Chinese-claimed areas, to 2,000 hectares. The projects include an airstrip that could be large enough for fighter jets and surveillance aircraft, the Wall Street Journal quoted the defence intelligence provider IHS Jane\u2019s as saying.The report said the change in US stance would involve flying over and sailing close to artificial islands that were only reefs before the latest building project. China says its territorial waters extend for 12 nautical miles from the land, a line that the US has challenged verbally but until now ordered its navy to respect.Some regional allies want the US to take a stronger stance in challenging China, while others fear that ratcheting up the pressure only raises the risk of military confrontation and could encourage Beijing to speed up building work even more, the report said.The White House would have to sign off on any change in the US posture, and the Wall Street Journal said it had declined to comment.Luna Lin contributed research to this article", "tags": ["China", "US foreign policy", "US news", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China urges caution from US over South China Sea disputes"},{"date": "2015-05-07T15:09:13Z", "country": "china", "content": "Steve Koon, the founding partner of Innovate99 Impact Investment, and Robin Zhang, founding partner of Venture Avenue, are two of a growing number of Chinese social investors. They have partnered with the British Council for over five years to provide training, mentoring and funding opportunities to social enterprises in China. We asked them about the sector\u2019s evolution and the opportunities and challenges that lie ahead. While China\u2019s economy has enjoyed near 10% growth for over 30 years, public services have been under strain from the weight of the world\u2019s largest population, massive rural migration to the cities and the restructuring of public health services. Moreover, the country is rapidly ageing: there are now some 200 million Chinese over the age of 60, accounting for almost 15% of the population, and their number is set to carry on rising. This coupled with its other social and environmental issues means that China is in serious need of new approaches to public services.That\u2019s where social enterprise, which is now beginning to take off, could really make a difference. \u201cSocial enterprises can target people who can pay to generate profits to subsidise those who can\u2019t pay\u201d says Koon. \u201cThe key is to go beyond the \u2018free and government subsidy\u2019 models to develop market-based solutions.\u201dKoon goes on to say that \u201celderly services and special education are the two sectors most suitable for social enterprise solutions. [They] can deliver the most impact and financial return because of the possibility of building up a scalable business model.\u201dZhang likewise sees opportunities in helping NGOs working in education, medical care and elderly care adopt revenue generating social enterprise models. Moreover, he believes that \u201curban inclusion of migrant workers and connecting small rural economies to cities\u201d is a highly promising area of work for social enterprises in China. \u201cThese two issues impact on reducing the gap between rural and urban China, and help improve social stability,\u201d he adds.China\u2019s meteoric rise has caused many changes in Chinese society \u2013 and these have been reflected in the development of social enterprise over its relatively short existence. Both investors have seen an increase in the scale and number of social enterprises in China in recent years, but it is another change that has most profoundly marked the sector\u2019s evolution. \u201cWhen we started in 2009, most of the participants [in social enterprise training programmes] were from traditional NGOs and grassroots charity organisations. In the last couple of years, however, we began to have more participants from the business sector,\u201d says Koon.Zhang goes on to say that \u201c[these] \u2018newcomers\u2019 from the business world [are] converting their already successful enterprises into social enterprises.\u201dWhile this brought more activity, business experience and capital to the social enterprise sector, it also created new challenges.As Koon puts it: \u201cAt the beginning, the needs were very one-way: how to change from non-profits to social enterprises. As more participants from the business sector joined, another need emerged; changing from a commercial organisation to a social enterprise. The needs changed from a \u2018one-way street to a two-way highway\u2019.\u201cThe scale was also becoming bigger. We had organisations whose annual budget ranged from 100,000 renminbi to a few million [\u00a310,000 to a few hundred thousand]. Some were just serving a few people while others were helping hundreds or even thousands of people.\u201dZhang adds that \u201cwhile the old social enterprises need more incubation services, the new social enterprises need more validation that what they are doing is meaningful, and therefore valued by society.\u201dA major barrier to the development of social enterprise in China is the fact that it enjoys no legal definition or formal government recognition. And after a few well publicised scandals involving NGOs, there is deep mistrust of allowing businesses engaged in seemingly charitable causes to pay dividends to shareholders \u2013 something which is at the core of some social enterprise concepts but also debated in the west.Aside from these high-level cultural barriers, social enterprises in China also face the same types of operational challenges as those in other countries, though according to Steve Koon access to funding does not top the list. The sheer scale of China\u2019s social needs dwarf the entirety of the UK social enterprise sector\u201cThe problem is always finding organisations with a scalable strategy and talented people. When I say strategy, I mean a long-term vision plus a practical five-year plan with sustainable revenues to help the organisation grow in both scale and quality of service. When I say people, I mean people with passion and commitment plus business management competence; in other words, professional managers with a sense of mission.\u201dThe sheer number of people in need is also a big problem.\u201cIn the UK, there are a lot of resources and [relatively] few people in need. In China, you have very few resources and too many people in need.\u201dHe adds that in the disability sector alone there are over 80 million people in need in China, more than the total population of the UK.\u201cThe sheer scale of China\u2019s social needs dwarf the entirety of the UK social enterprise sector.\u201dHowever, despite these issues, both investors are very optimistic about the future of social enterprise in China.Zhang believes that the sector\u2019s growth in China over the next five to 10 years will be \u201cexplosive\u201d, and expects more and more NGOs, especially in the education, medical care and elderly care industries, to adjust their approach and incorporate some revenue generating activity. Koon says: \u201cAs China\u2019s economy keeps growing, the amount of resources will increase. As the internet and smartphones become more popular, social problems also become more transparent and more people will join in to help.\u201dContent on this page is paid for and provided by the British Council, sponsor of the international social enterprise hub", "tags": ["Social Enterprise British Council Partner zone"], "title": "The shape of social enterprise in China"},{"date": "2015-05-01T08:20:53Z", "country": "china", "content": "A new bird species has been discovered in central China by an international team of scientists. This shy brown bird, named the Sichuan bush warbler, Locustella chengi, breeds in the mountainous region of the Sichuan Basin at 1000-2300 m elevation. Its winter home is currently unknown. This bird was first noticed whilst singing its distinctive song in May 1992 by two members of the research team, who thought it might be something new. After nearly two decades of searching, they found the bird again. Extensive analyses of the bird\u2019s DNA, physical measurements, plumage colour and vocalisations confirmed their hunch that this is indeed a new bird species to science.\u201cI first heard this species together with my friend Urban Olsson when we visited the sacred Emei mountain in Sichuan province, central China in May 1992\u201d, writes Per Alstr\u00f6m, a professor of systematics and evolution at Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences (Sveriges Lantbruksuniversitet) and lead author on this paper. Professor Olsson, associate professor of systematics and biodiversity at the University of Gothenburg (G\u00f6teborgs universitet), is one of the many co-authors on this paper. \u201cWe heard a song that was unfamiliar to us coming from a dense patch of tall herbs close to the trail. The song didn\u2019t sound very \u2018bird-like\u2019, and as we couldn\u2019t see a trace of any bird, we were debating for a little while whether it was a bird or some insect\u201d, recalls Professor Alstr\u00f6m.\u201cAlthough we thought it was most likely a bird.\u201dThe sound they heard was a series of repeated phrases consisting of a drawn-out harsh note followed by a shorter note. This is the sound they heard on that particular morning in May 1992 (fig.2):Eventually, the two friends caught several fleeting glimpses of a small round-bodied chocolate-brown bird with a dark stubby tail, long pink legs, large dark eyes and a pointy black beak, scampering quickly through the dense underbrush. After listening and watching for awhile, they decided this shy little bird was their singer, and that it looked rather like a russet bush warbler, Locustella mandelli (pictured below) -- a species that both men had previously seen and heard in northwest Thailand.But this bird\u2019s song was so strange! Was it really a russet bush warbler? Although neither was convinced, they couldn\u2019t be sure since they neither saw nor heard this elusive bird again during that visit.The two friends returned home to Sweden, pondering this mousy bird. Meanwhile, weeks lengthened into months and turned into years -- many years, in fact. During the ensuing decades, the two friends landed good jobs at separate universities in Sweden, relocated a few times and immersed themselves into their work, their colleagues and students, and their families. Yet neither forgot their encounter with that mysterious little chocolate-brown bird in the faraway mountains of China.Nearly twenty years later, Professor Alstr\u00f6m returned to China as a visiting professor at the Chinese Academy of Sciences. He was just as determined to find and identify this mystery bird as when he first heard it. Some of Professor Alstr\u00f6m\u2019s bird-watching colleagues in China had noticed this mystery bird, too. Soon, Professor Alstr\u00f6m and his Chinese colleagues were even discussing this species using the provisional name they\u2019d given it; \u201cSichuan bush warbler\u201d. After learning that the \u201cSichuan bush warbler\u201d and the russet bush warbler had both been found breeding in the Qinling mountains, a team was assembled to seek out both birds, to learn more about how they interacted with each other. Together with his Chinese colleagues Fumin Lei, Gang Song and Zuohua Yin from the Institute of Zoology at the Chinese Academy of Sciences in Beijing and Xuebin Gao from the Shaanxi Institute of Zoology in Xian, they mounted an expedition to the Qinling mountains, where they collected the first \u201cSichuan bush warbler\u201d on 28 May 2011. This individual is the holotype for his species, which is to say that he is the one specimen that represents what the species looks like. This specimen is now housed in the Institute of Zoology at Chinese Academy of Sciences, along with sound recordings and a sample of his DNA.Later, more individuals were spotted, captured and measured, their songs recorded and DNA samples collected. Back in the lab, mitochondrial DNA analyses of samples from birds in the genus Locustella revealed that these two bush warblers are very closely related. Further, these analyses estimated that the two species diverged from a common ancestor roughly 850,000 years ago (fig. 3).The team measured plumage colour across each bird\u2019s body as well as a variety of physical features -- length, height and width of each bird\u2019s beak, and wing and leg length, for example. Analyses of these measurements confirmed that the two species are significantly different. For example, when compared to the russet bush warbler, the Sichuan bush warbler\u2019s breeding plumage is generally greyer overall, lacking the appropriately-named russet bush warbler\u2019s strong russet tones. They also found that the Sichuan bush warbler has a shorter tail and longer wings than the russet bush warbler. The research team\u2019s field studies found that the Sichuan bush warbler is locally common, and does not appear to be under any imminent threat. By this time, the team gave this bird its formal names: its English name refers to Sichuan province where it was first discovered, and its specific name, chengi, honours the late professor Cheng Tso-hsin (1906\u20131998), China\u2019s greatest ornithologist.The Sichuan bush warbler is very similar to its closest relative, the russet bush warbler, but the two species are not identical. Which raises the question: short of carrying an automated PCR and DNA sequencer into the field -- laboratory equipment that can be as large and as heavy as a refrigerator-freezer -- how can an ornithologist or birder reliably distinguish these bird species, especially when they are hiding in an impenetrable bush, as they tend to do?This is where the science and the art of bird watching meet because identifying birds requires careful study of the bird in the field combined with a deep knowledge of each species\u2019 natural history. In the case of these two cryptic species, several characters help distinguish them. First, the russet bush warbler\u2019s range (orange dots, fig. 1) is not identical to that of the Sichuan bush warbler (red dots, fig. 1). Second, even where their ranges overlap, as in parts of Sichuan Province, the two species breed at different elevations: the Sichuan bush warbler nests on lower mountainsides (fig. 4, left) whilst the russet bush warbler nests at higher altitudes (fig. 4, right).But the most obvious difference of all, especially for those who listen carefully to birds, is song. The Sichuan bush warbler sings a lower-pitched song with more drawn out notes (fig. 2) compared to the russet bush warbler (fig. 5):Not only do these two species\u2019 songs sound dramatically different, but a side-by-side comparison between the sonograms created from their song elements also look strikingly different (figure 6):Discoveries provoke questions, and this newly identified species will likely trigger a plethora of interesting research, particularly about evolution and the process of speciation in birds. For example, understanding how the common ancestor of these two bird species came to differentially exploit past environments could shed more light upon the complex relationships between evolution, ecology, geology and climate. Of course, such an investigation is made more challenging by the lack of fossils.As an ornithologist and birder, a basic question that I\u2019ve been pondering is which came first, the song or the species? Song is an important form of communication in birds. They use it to maintain their breeding territories, to advertise their overall fitness, and to attract mates. Since female songbirds choose their mates based on their songs, ornithologists are investigating how female choice influences the evolution of male song. These two, nearly identical, species that inhabit distinct niches and produce distinct songs could provide more insight into these two intersecting processes.Another interesting question is the relationship between birdsong and habitat: did these two species\u2019 songs evolve so they each travel most effectively through the particular niche that the singers live in? Research has shown that birds living in dense vegetation with a complex structure (a rainforest, basically) tend to sing songs with narrow bandwidths, low frequencies, drawn-out song elements and longer inter-element intervals, whereas birds that sing songs with broad bandwidths, high frequencies, short song elements and compressed inter-element intervals tend to live in more open habitats that lack obstructive vegetation (grasslands and the like). But you don\u2019t need to be a scientist or a birdwatcher to appreciate and be excited by the discovery of new species. Professor Alstr\u00f6m pointed out in email: \u201cALL living organisms are interesting, and there are SO MANY cool creatures all over the world that are thoroughly enjoyable to observe.\u201dPer Alstro\u0308m, Canwei Xia, Pamela C Rasmussen, Urban Olsson, Bo Dai, Jian Zhao, Paul J Leader, Geoff J Carey, Lu Dong, Tianlong Cai, Paul I Holt, Hung Le Manh, Gang Song, Yang Liu, Yanyun Zhang and Fumin Lei (2015). Integrative taxonomy of the Russet Bush Warbler Locustella mandelli complex reveals a new species from central China, Avian Research, 6 (9) doi:10.1186/s40657-015-0016-z (OA)Per Alstr\u00f6m [emails: 19, 20, 27-3o April & 1 May 2015]Pam Rasmussen [emails: 28 April 2015]Background:Alstr\u00f6m P., Fregin S., Norman J.A., Ericson P.G.P., Christidis L. & Olsson U. (2011). Multilocus analysis of a taxonomically densely sampled dataset reveal extensive non-monophyly in the avian family Locustellidae, Molecular phylogenetics and evolution, 58 513-526. doi:10.1016/j.ympev.2010.12.012 (\u20a4 [Free PDF summarising main findings])... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..When she\u2019s not out birding or trying to hack audio embed codes, GrrlScientist is very active on twitter @GrrlScientist and sometimes lurks on social media: facebook, G+, LinkedIn, and Pinterest.", "tags": ["Science", "Animal behaviour", "Biology", "Zoology", "Taxonomy", "Animals", "Birds", "Birdwatching", "Environment", "Wildlife", "China", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New bird species discovered in a bush in China | @GrrlScientist"},{"date": "2015-05-26T18:28:22Z", "country": "china", "content": "China unveiled a military strategy on Tuesday to project naval power further from its own shores and announced plans for two lighthouses on reefs in the South China Sea, moves likely to increase tensions with Washington and regional powers over the disputed waters.A white paper issued by China\u2019s state council, or cabinet, said the navy will shift from a policy of defending offshore waters to a combined goal of \u201coffshore waters defence and open seas protection\u201d.  Related: Taiwan proposes South China Sea peace plan to avert 'major conflict' Several regional powers including the Philippines and Vietnam have overlapping claims in the South China Sea, one of the world\u2019s busiest shipping routes.The high seas were one of four \u201ccritical security domains\u201d highlighted in the paper, the others being outer space, cyberspace and nuclear force, although the white paper underlined that China wants to avoid a nuclear arms race or the weaponisation of space.In the more immediate naval sphere, however, Beijing appears more assertive. The paper also warned distant powers against \u201cprovocative\u201d actions and interference in South China Sea affairs, an apparent reference to Washington\u2019s very publicly-aired concerns about a large-scale Chinese land reclamation project around mostly uninhabited reefs and atolls in the disputed waters.The Chinese works are turning submerged reefs into airstrips, and creating thousands of hectares of dry land on artificial islands, with the pace of construction speeding up in recent months. One of the biggest US concerns is land reclamation on reef formations that would not otherwise allow China to claim territorial waters because they are submerged at high tide and not capable of supporting independent life. Xinhua on Tuesday published pictures of lighthouse construction on two coral reefs, Chigua and Huayang, showing a groundbreaking ceremony that was perhaps more likely to involve ground creation.\u201cThe ministry of transport plans to construct two multi-functional lighthouses, which will provide efficient navigation service to the passing vessels and immensely improve the navigation safety in the South China Sea,\u201d Xinhua said in a report.Plans to ramp up the US military presence in the area would probably involve flying over and sailing close to artificial islands that were only reefs before the latest building project, and China last week issued multiple warnings to a US plane flying above Fiery Cross reef, where China has built an early-warning radar station and airstrip.Defence ministry spokesman Yang Yujun said that the country\u2019s reclamation activities were comparable with development of homes, roads and other infrastructure on the mainland.\u201cFrom the perspective of sovereignty, there is absolutely no difference,\u201d Yan told a news conference to launch the new military white paper. Some countries with \u201culterior motives\u201d had unfairly characterized China\u2019s military presence and sensationalised the issue, Reuters reported.The dispute has pushed together regional powers who a few years ago might have been as wary of neighbours with claims on the islands as they were of Beijing.The Philippines have backed the US, and President Benigno Aquinosaid this week that they will continue to fly over the disputed areas despite Chinese warnings.\u201cWe will still fly the routes that we fly based on the international law from the various conventions we entered into,\u201d the AFP news agency quoted him saying.The country\u2019s defence minister also said he would ask for more defence equipment from Tokyo, the same day that Japan also agreed to bolster security and maritime safety ties with Malaysia and start talks on transfers of defence equipment and technology.", "tags": ["China", "Philippines", "Vietnam", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Japan", "Malaysia"], "title": "South China Sea tensions escalate as China unveils plans for lighthouses"},{"date": "2015-06-30T13:26:46Z", "country": "china", "content": "China will aim to cut its greenhouse gas emissions per unit of gross domestic product by 60-65% from 2005 levels under a plan submitted to the United Nations ahead of crucial climate change talks in Paris later this year.The pledge has been eagerly awaited as the country is the world\u2019s largest carbon emitter. China said it would increase the share of non-fossil fuels as part of its primary energy consumption to about 20% by 2030, and peak emissions by around the same point, though it would \u201cwork hard\u201d to do so earlier. The figures are contained in a document submitted to the United Nations ahead of the next round of UN climate talks in Paris. All countries are expected to submit their national pledges to reduce carbon emissions beyond 2020, also known as Intended Nationally Determined Contributions (INDC).China plans to increase its installed capacity of wind power to 200GW and solar power to around 100 gigawatts (GW), up from 95.81GW and 28GW today, respectively. It will also increase its use of natural gas which is expected to make up more than 10% of its primary energy consumption by 2020. According to estimates by E3G, a European-based environmental thinktank, China\u2019s plan will see it install as much low-carbon energy as the entire US electricity system capacity to date. China\u2019s pledge largely reflects commitments it made in November last year as part of an agreement struck with the US. Li Shuo, senior climate and energy policy officer with Greenpeace, said he believes the figures announced are floor figures and that China is definitely capable of over-achieving. He said it reflects the actions that are being taken domestically as China attempts to reduce its toxic levels of air pollution that are a result of its rapid coal-based economic growth. China\u2019s premier Li Keqiang has previously \u201cdeclared war\u201d on pollution, describing it as a \u201cblight\u201d on people\u2019s quality of life. Coal consumption still accounts for around 66% of China\u2019s energy consumption. Last year, China\u2019s cabinet announced a plan to cap coal consumption by 2020 at a level of 4.2bn tonnes and for coal to make up no more than 62% of the primary energy mix by the same year.Changhua Wu, China director of the Climate Group said China\u2019s INDC is a \u201cpositive boost\u201d to the international climate change process. \u201cChina\u2019s effort to align its domestic growth agenda and global climate change agenda is a leading example of how a fundamental shift is needed to grow the economy differently,\u201d she said.In its document submitted to the UN, China said the outcomes of the negotiations in Paris \u201cshould take into account differentiated historical responsibilities\u201d, a reference to the fact developed countries have put more carbon into the atmosphere over time than developing countries.However, according to the Climate Group, due to China\u2019s massive economic development and taking into account emissions from 1990 to now, the country has almost caught up with the US\u2019s total historical emissions. China\u2019s pledge is expected to give an important boost to efforts to reach a global deal on reducing emissions beyond 2020 in Paris, which UN secretary general Ban Ki-moon warned on Monday were moving at a snail\u2019s pace. Mohamed Adow, Christian Aid\u2019s senior climate change adviser, said China\u2019s pledge is a \u201chuge step\u201d. Ahead of the talks in Copenhagen in 2009, China and the US were criticised for holding back progress, and \u201cnow China is leading the way. It shows that China is starting to do its bit. This is a new era for climate politics,\u201d said Adow. However, it is not likely that the pledges that have been submitted, including China\u2019s, are sufficient to keep global temperatures rises below the internationally-agreed target of 2C, according to Li Shuo. \u201cWe think the collective ambition of what has been putting on the table, in particular major emitters (EU, China, US) are not sufficient to help us maintain below 2C,\u201d said Li. \u201cNow it is the task of the political process all the way to Paris to ensure we have a robust agreement by the end of this year to enhance action further.\u201d ", "tags": ["COP 21: UN climate change conference | Paris", "Global climate talks", "Environment", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Climate change", "World news", "China"], "title": "China makes carbon pledge ahead of Paris climate change summit"},{"date": "2015-06-29T11:07:07Z", "country": "china", "content": "China\u2019s stock market slumped into bear market territory amid panicky trading on Monday, despite its central bank unexpectedly cutting interest rates over the weekend in an effort to stem the selling.The Shanghai composite index has now lost more than 20% since its recent peak on 10 June, putting it into official correction territory after it more than doubled over the last year. Even including these losses, however, the index is still up more than 29% since January.The latest falls have been partly fuelled by fears of a growing crackdown by regulators on loans used to speculate on shares, amid concerns that some investors were being forced to sell at a loss if the falling markets triggered breaches in their borrowing terms.Traders also said the share price boom was out of kilter with the Chinese economy, which is now growing at its slowest pace for six years.The index closed a further 3.34% lower at 4053.03 on Monday after losing more than 7% at one point in one of the most volatile sessions the market has seen. The escalating financial crisis in Greece also contributed to uncertainty. On Friday, the index closed 7.4% lower. Related: Greece debt crisis: markets slide after capital controls imposed - live ING Bank said: \u201cTrying to create an environment for a healthy stock market without stoking speculative excess has proved challenging. Like all recent sharp corrections, Friday\u2019s was triggered by fears of a crackdown on margin lending after a local broker took steps to curb margin holdings.\u201d There was little comfort from the central bank\u2019s move on Saturday to cut a key interest rate by 25 basis points to 4.85% and reduce the reserve requirements \u2013 the amount of reserves that banks are required to hold \u2013 by 50 basis points. The bank said one of the policy goalswas to calm stock market fluctuations.Analysts at UBS said: \u201cAfter Friday\u2019s ... market plunge, many turned to the authorities for support measures as concerns rose that the rapid unwinding of margin trades was fuelling the sell-off.\u201cAs such, Saturday\u2019s monetary easing will surely give the impression that monetary policy is being used as a direct response to stock market fluctuations. While this belief can help ensure near-term market stability, the impact on longer-term market health is less clear.\u201d Samuel Chien, at Shanghai hedge fund BoomTrent Investment Management, told Reuters: \u201cThe market is still fragile because the clean-up of grey-market margin financing is still going on, and last week\u2019s market tumble triggered some margin calls and some investors are under pressure to sell.\u201dMeanwhile, Bank of America Merrill Lynch said that recent rate cuts had not prevented shares from falling: \u201cShort-term bounce aside, we doubt that the latest cuts will trigger any sustained rally.\u201d", "tags": ["Chinese economy", "China", "Asia Pacific", "Business", "World news", "Stock markets"], "title": "China markets slump despite central bank rate cut"},{"date": "2015-06-13T11:00:07Z", "country": "china", "content": "Joyce\u2019s image in China holds a strange fascination in the west. When the first third of Finnegans Wake, his last and most notoriously difficult book, was published in Shanghai in 2013, newspapers in Britain and America greeted the announcement as a momentous event. Certainly, the salient details of the story are arresting: 72 years had passed since the publication of the novel in London in 1941; seven years had elapsed since Dai Congrong had agreed to undertake the formidable task of translation; and when the book appeared between luxuriously silky dark-green boards, heavy with pages of explanatory notes, it became an immediate commercial success.By what miracles of linguistic mastery and literary imagination could Chinese characters be made to capture Joyce\u2019s mind-bending manipulations of the alphabet? By what subtleties of cross-cultural understanding could the specificities of Ireland and its mythologies be translated for a Chinese audience? Could the translation be trusted if it made Finnegans Wake a bestseller?When Ulysses was first published in Paris in 1922, Joyce responded with delight to news that an order had been placed from China: \u201cTen copies to Peking!\u201d he exclaimed. Ulysses, even more than Finnegans Wake, is alive in China today. Two Joyce-themed stage productions have recently toured major Chinese cities. Both are the brainchildren of Andy Arnold, the artistic director of Glasgow\u2019s Tron theatre, and form part of a programme of performances for a UK-China Year of Cultural Exchange. The first, A Journey Round James Joyce, offers an elegantly devised biographical reimagining of Joyce\u2019s life in Trieste between 1905 and 1915. The second, Ulysses, is a revival of the Tron\u2019s successful 2012 production of Dermot Bolger\u2019s adaptation (A Dublin Bloom, 1996). They performed to full and enthusiastic houses in Beijing, Shanghai, Hangzhou and Jinan.For much of the 20th century, Joyce\u2019s name was not one to be lightly pronounced or printed in China. Even as late as 1982 \u2013 as Jin Di, Ulysses\u2019s first translator, reports \u2013 a state official commenting on the centenary of Joyce\u2019s birth described the world of Leopold Bloom as \u201cshocking in its pettiness, obscurity, ugliness, and confusion\u201d and as emblematic of \u201cthe decadence of the modern bourgeoisie\u201d.Yet by 1996, not one but two versions of Ulysses were available to Chinese readers. The novel sold very well, and western newspapers, as they would later about Finnegans Wake, commented on Ulysses\u2019s bestseller status in China with a mixture of excitement and bemusement. But the book\u2019s journey had in a sense only begun. Works of such length and complexity take time to percolate into a nation\u2019s living rooms and classrooms. These days, if you ask about James Joyce \u2013 or \u201cZhanmusi Qiaoyisi\u201d, as his name is transliterated in Chinese pinyin \u2013 in a Chinese bookshop you will be led to shelves lined with relevant volumes. The vast five-floor Xinhua bookshop on Wangfujing, a crowded shopping avenue just round the corner from Tiananmen Square, currently stocks no fewer than four different editions of Ulysses \u2013 one in English, and three in Chinese. Copies of Dubliners, A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man, Exiles and Finnegans Wake are also available.The tastes and identifications of China\u2019s expanding and dynamic middle class are part of the explanation for this renaissance. Where Joyce stood for bourgeois corruption only three decades ago, he now stands for cosmopolitan sophistication. Chinese people have an affectionate epithet for those particularly enamoured of the western way of life and its consumer comforts: they call such internationally minded bourgeois \u201cxiaozi\u201d \u2013 literally, \u201clittle capitalists\u201d. It is to a large degree such educated \u201cxiaozi\u201d who are driving the success of Arnold\u2019s plays.A Journey Round James Joyce was conceived specifically with China in mind. Performed in Chinese by Chinese actors, the play conjures Joyce and Nora Barnacle\u2019s departure from Ireland, Joyce\u2019s carousing in the bars of Trieste, the language lessons he gave to make a living, Nora\u2019s housekeeping and henpecking, his writing and its connections to his experiences in exile. The script consists of an ingenious collage of quotations assembled from many corners of Joyce\u2019s works and letters. In its departures from biographical fact and disruptions of chronological sequence, A Journey Round James Joyce bears some likeness to the theatrical fantasy by which Tom Stoppard imagined Joyce\u2019s life in Z\u00fcrich in Travesties in 1974. Yet the tone of this piece is quite different, fluctuating between broad comedy and romance, tension and melodrama.To western eyes, the sight and sound of a Chinese James Joyce and Nora Barnacle is completely disorienting (Joyce\u2019s recognisable glasses are at first the only obvious echo of a familiar story) and a thought-provoking reminder of the extent of the differences translations have to negotiate. As the play unfolds, snippets of the Irish songs and Italian operas Joyce loved (\u201cDown by the Salley Gardens\u201d, Madame Butterfly) add to the international ambiance of the Journey. The costumes and the exquisitely minimalist set are the fruits of Arnold\u2019s collaboration with Beijing\u2019s Xinchan theatre.Arnold\u2019s Ulysses is a wilder piece of theatre. Performed in English with Chinese surtitles, the play stages a recapitulation of all the novel\u2019s best-known moments \u2013 a \u201cgreatest hits\u201d formula. But the play makes great demands on anyone encountering Joyce\u2019s world for the first time: it would be fairly difficult, without prior knowledge of the book, and without a sense of the Dublin world in which it is rooted, to make head or tail of the spectacular whirligig of scenes by which Arnold recreates the events of Bloomsday.The play inverts the chronology of Joyce\u2019s book by presenting the events of 16 June 1904 as the stuff of Bloom\u2019s dreams after his return to the marital bed in the early hours of the following morning. The re-enactment of the key moments of his day is interwoven with excerpts from his wife Molly\u2019s famous closing soliloquy.What the Tron emphatically brings to Ulysses is the inventive energy and the daring to engage with a classic text. Joyce\u2019s odyssey in China, and the drama of east and west captured in its moving hall of mirrors, continues.", "tags": ["James Joyce", "Books", "Culture", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Radio", "Television", "BBC", "Media", "Television & radio"], "title": "James Joyce \u2013 big in China"},{"date": "2015-05-13T12:43:05Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has warned the United States not to take \u201crisky or provocative actions\u201d in a dispute over territorial claims in the South China Sea, as Washington contemplates a stronger stance in the area.The US defence secretary, Ash Carter, concerned about China\u2019s rapid expansion of artificial islands, has asked staff to look at options including sending ships and planes closer to reefs claimed by Beijing, the Wall Street Journal reported. China\u2019s foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told a news conference: \u201cWe are seriously concerned about the remarks on this issue by the US, and we think the US needs to make a clarification.\u201dShe said China respected the freedom of navigation for international traffic in the area, but that did not allow warships and military planes to enter territorial waters and airspace.\u201cChina will resolutely safeguard its own sovereignty. We call on the relevant parties to be cautious with their words and actions, and not take any risky or provocative actions,\u201d Hua said.The US has long insisted that it does not take sides in the complex territorial disputes in the region, but there have been growing tensions in recent months over China\u2019s aggressive land reclamation projects in the Spratly Islands.Several regional powers including the Philippines and Vietnam have overlapping claims to the area, mostly uninhabited reefs and atolls that lie in one of the world\u2019s busiest shipping routes.For years those claims were contested mostly by ships or between officials, but in recent years Beijing decided to reinforce its claims by expanding its territory. Since last year, building projects have quadrupled the size of artificial islands in Chinese-claimed areas, to 2,000 hectares. The projects include an airstrip that could be large enough for fighter jets and surveillance aircraft, the Wall Street Journal quoted the defence intelligence provider IHS Jane\u2019s as saying.The report said the change in US stance would involve flying over and sailing close to artificial islands that were only reefs before the latest building project. China says its territorial waters extend for 12 nautical miles from the land, a line that the US has challenged verbally but until now ordered its navy to respect.Some regional allies want the US to take a stronger stance in challenging China, while others fear that ratcheting up the pressure only raises the risk of military confrontation and could encourage Beijing to speed up building work even more, the report said.The White House would have to sign off on any change in the US posture, and the Wall Street Journal said it had declined to comment.Luna Lin contributed research to this article", "tags": ["China", "US foreign policy", "US news", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China urges caution from US over South China Sea disputes"},{"date": "2015-05-07T15:09:13Z", "country": "china", "content": "Steve Koon, the founding partner of Innovate99 Impact Investment, and Robin Zhang, founding partner of Venture Avenue, are two of a growing number of Chinese social investors. They have partnered with the British Council for over five years to provide training, mentoring and funding opportunities to social enterprises in China. We asked them about the sector\u2019s evolution and the opportunities and challenges that lie ahead. While China\u2019s economy has enjoyed near 10% growth for over 30 years, public services have been under strain from the weight of the world\u2019s largest population, massive rural migration to the cities and the restructuring of public health services. Moreover, the country is rapidly ageing: there are now some 200 million Chinese over the age of 60, accounting for almost 15% of the population, and their number is set to carry on rising. This coupled with its other social and environmental issues means that China is in serious need of new approaches to public services.That\u2019s where social enterprise, which is now beginning to take off, could really make a difference. \u201cSocial enterprises can target people who can pay to generate profits to subsidise those who can\u2019t pay\u201d says Koon. \u201cThe key is to go beyond the \u2018free and government subsidy\u2019 models to develop market-based solutions.\u201dKoon goes on to say that \u201celderly services and special education are the two sectors most suitable for social enterprise solutions. [They] can deliver the most impact and financial return because of the possibility of building up a scalable business model.\u201dZhang likewise sees opportunities in helping NGOs working in education, medical care and elderly care adopt revenue generating social enterprise models. Moreover, he believes that \u201curban inclusion of migrant workers and connecting small rural economies to cities\u201d is a highly promising area of work for social enterprises in China. \u201cThese two issues impact on reducing the gap between rural and urban China, and help improve social stability,\u201d he adds.China\u2019s meteoric rise has caused many changes in Chinese society \u2013 and these have been reflected in the development of social enterprise over its relatively short existence. Both investors have seen an increase in the scale and number of social enterprises in China in recent years, but it is another change that has most profoundly marked the sector\u2019s evolution. \u201cWhen we started in 2009, most of the participants [in social enterprise training programmes] were from traditional NGOs and grassroots charity organisations. In the last couple of years, however, we began to have more participants from the business sector,\u201d says Koon.Zhang goes on to say that \u201c[these] \u2018newcomers\u2019 from the business world [are] converting their already successful enterprises into social enterprises.\u201dWhile this brought more activity, business experience and capital to the social enterprise sector, it also created new challenges.As Koon puts it: \u201cAt the beginning, the needs were very one-way: how to change from non-profits to social enterprises. As more participants from the business sector joined, another need emerged; changing from a commercial organisation to a social enterprise. The needs changed from a \u2018one-way street to a two-way highway\u2019.\u201cThe scale was also becoming bigger. We had organisations whose annual budget ranged from 100,000 renminbi to a few million [\u00a310,000 to a few hundred thousand]. Some were just serving a few people while others were helping hundreds or even thousands of people.\u201dZhang adds that \u201cwhile the old social enterprises need more incubation services, the new social enterprises need more validation that what they are doing is meaningful, and therefore valued by society.\u201dA major barrier to the development of social enterprise in China is the fact that it enjoys no legal definition or formal government recognition. And after a few well publicised scandals involving NGOs, there is deep mistrust of allowing businesses engaged in seemingly charitable causes to pay dividends to shareholders \u2013 something which is at the core of some social enterprise concepts but also debated in the west.Aside from these high-level cultural barriers, social enterprises in China also face the same types of operational challenges as those in other countries, though according to Steve Koon access to funding does not top the list. The sheer scale of China\u2019s social needs dwarf the entirety of the UK social enterprise sector\u201cThe problem is always finding organisations with a scalable strategy and talented people. When I say strategy, I mean a long-term vision plus a practical five-year plan with sustainable revenues to help the organisation grow in both scale and quality of service. When I say people, I mean people with passion and commitment plus business management competence; in other words, professional managers with a sense of mission.\u201dThe sheer number of people in need is also a big problem.\u201cIn the UK, there are a lot of resources and [relatively] few people in need. In China, you have very few resources and too many people in need.\u201dHe adds that in the disability sector alone there are over 80 million people in need in China, more than the total population of the UK.\u201cThe sheer scale of China\u2019s social needs dwarf the entirety of the UK social enterprise sector.\u201dHowever, despite these issues, both investors are very optimistic about the future of social enterprise in China.Zhang believes that the sector\u2019s growth in China over the next five to 10 years will be \u201cexplosive\u201d, and expects more and more NGOs, especially in the education, medical care and elderly care industries, to adjust their approach and incorporate some revenue generating activity. Koon says: \u201cAs China\u2019s economy keeps growing, the amount of resources will increase. As the internet and smartphones become more popular, social problems also become more transparent and more people will join in to help.\u201dContent on this page is paid for and provided by the British Council, sponsor of the international social enterprise hub", "tags": ["Social Enterprise British Council Partner zone"], "title": "The shape of social enterprise in China"},{"date": "2015-05-01T08:20:53Z", "country": "china", "content": "A new bird species has been discovered in central China by an international team of scientists. This shy brown bird, named the Sichuan bush warbler, Locustella chengi, breeds in the mountainous region of the Sichuan Basin at 1000-2300 m elevation. Its winter home is currently unknown. This bird was first noticed whilst singing its distinctive song in May 1992 by two members of the research team, who thought it might be something new. After nearly two decades of searching, they found the bird again. Extensive analyses of the bird\u2019s DNA, physical measurements, plumage colour and vocalisations confirmed their hunch that this is indeed a new bird species to science.\u201cI first heard this species together with my friend Urban Olsson when we visited the sacred Emei mountain in Sichuan province, central China in May 1992\u201d, writes Per Alstr\u00f6m, a professor of systematics and evolution at Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences (Sveriges Lantbruksuniversitet) and lead author on this paper. Professor Olsson, associate professor of systematics and biodiversity at the University of Gothenburg (G\u00f6teborgs universitet), is one of the many co-authors on this paper. \u201cWe heard a song that was unfamiliar to us coming from a dense patch of tall herbs close to the trail. The song didn\u2019t sound very \u2018bird-like\u2019, and as we couldn\u2019t see a trace of any bird, we were debating for a little while whether it was a bird or some insect\u201d, recalls Professor Alstr\u00f6m.\u201cAlthough we thought it was most likely a bird.\u201dThe sound they heard was a series of repeated phrases consisting of a drawn-out harsh note followed by a shorter note. This is the sound they heard on that particular morning in May 1992 (fig.2):Eventually, the two friends caught several fleeting glimpses of a small round-bodied chocolate-brown bird with a dark stubby tail, long pink legs, large dark eyes and a pointy black beak, scampering quickly through the dense underbrush. After listening and watching for awhile, they decided this shy little bird was their singer, and that it looked rather like a russet bush warbler, Locustella mandelli (pictured below) -- a species that both men had previously seen and heard in northwest Thailand.But this bird\u2019s song was so strange! Was it really a russet bush warbler? Although neither was convinced, they couldn\u2019t be sure since they neither saw nor heard this elusive bird again during that visit.The two friends returned home to Sweden, pondering this mousy bird. Meanwhile, weeks lengthened into months and turned into years -- many years, in fact. During the ensuing decades, the two friends landed good jobs at separate universities in Sweden, relocated a few times and immersed themselves into their work, their colleagues and students, and their families. Yet neither forgot their encounter with that mysterious little chocolate-brown bird in the faraway mountains of China.Nearly twenty years later, Professor Alstr\u00f6m returned to China as a visiting professor at the Chinese Academy of Sciences. He was just as determined to find and identify this mystery bird as when he first heard it. Some of Professor Alstr\u00f6m\u2019s bird-watching colleagues in China had noticed this mystery bird, too. Soon, Professor Alstr\u00f6m and his Chinese colleagues were even discussing this species using the provisional name they\u2019d given it; \u201cSichuan bush warbler\u201d. After learning that the \u201cSichuan bush warbler\u201d and the russet bush warbler had both been found breeding in the Qinling mountains, a team was assembled to seek out both birds, to learn more about how they interacted with each other. Together with his Chinese colleagues Fumin Lei, Gang Song and Zuohua Yin from the Institute of Zoology at the Chinese Academy of Sciences in Beijing and Xuebin Gao from the Shaanxi Institute of Zoology in Xian, they mounted an expedition to the Qinling mountains, where they collected the first \u201cSichuan bush warbler\u201d on 28 May 2011. This individual is the holotype for his species, which is to say that he is the one specimen that represents what the species looks like. This specimen is now housed in the Institute of Zoology at Chinese Academy of Sciences, along with sound recordings and a sample of his DNA.Later, more individuals were spotted, captured and measured, their songs recorded and DNA samples collected. Back in the lab, mitochondrial DNA analyses of samples from birds in the genus Locustella revealed that these two bush warblers are very closely related. Further, these analyses estimated that the two species diverged from a common ancestor roughly 850,000 years ago (fig. 3).The team measured plumage colour across each bird\u2019s body as well as a variety of physical features -- length, height and width of each bird\u2019s beak, and wing and leg length, for example. Analyses of these measurements confirmed that the two species are significantly different. For example, when compared to the russet bush warbler, the Sichuan bush warbler\u2019s breeding plumage is generally greyer overall, lacking the appropriately-named russet bush warbler\u2019s strong russet tones. They also found that the Sichuan bush warbler has a shorter tail and longer wings than the russet bush warbler. The research team\u2019s field studies found that the Sichuan bush warbler is locally common, and does not appear to be under any imminent threat. By this time, the team gave this bird its formal names: its English name refers to Sichuan province where it was first discovered, and its specific name, chengi, honours the late professor Cheng Tso-hsin (1906\u20131998), China\u2019s greatest ornithologist.The Sichuan bush warbler is very similar to its closest relative, the russet bush warbler, but the two species are not identical. Which raises the question: short of carrying an automated PCR and DNA sequencer into the field -- laboratory equipment that can be as large and as heavy as a refrigerator-freezer -- how can an ornithologist or birder reliably distinguish these bird species, especially when they are hiding in an impenetrable bush, as they tend to do?This is where the science and the art of bird watching meet because identifying birds requires careful study of the bird in the field combined with a deep knowledge of each species\u2019 natural history. In the case of these two cryptic species, several characters help distinguish them. First, the russet bush warbler\u2019s range (orange dots, fig. 1) is not identical to that of the Sichuan bush warbler (red dots, fig. 1). Second, even where their ranges overlap, as in parts of Sichuan Province, the two species breed at different elevations: the Sichuan bush warbler nests on lower mountainsides (fig. 4, left) whilst the russet bush warbler nests at higher altitudes (fig. 4, right).But the most obvious difference of all, especially for those who listen carefully to birds, is song. The Sichuan bush warbler sings a lower-pitched song with more drawn out notes (fig. 2) compared to the russet bush warbler (fig. 5):Not only do these two species\u2019 songs sound dramatically different, but a side-by-side comparison between the sonograms created from their song elements also look strikingly different (figure 6):Discoveries provoke questions, and this newly identified species will likely trigger a plethora of interesting research, particularly about evolution and the process of speciation in birds. For example, understanding how the common ancestor of these two bird species came to differentially exploit past environments could shed more light upon the complex relationships between evolution, ecology, geology and climate. Of course, such an investigation is made more challenging by the lack of fossils.As an ornithologist and birder, a basic question that I\u2019ve been pondering is which came first, the song or the species? Song is an important form of communication in birds. They use it to maintain their breeding territories, to advertise their overall fitness, and to attract mates. Since female songbirds choose their mates based on their songs, ornithologists are investigating how female choice influences the evolution of male song. These two, nearly identical, species that inhabit distinct niches and produce distinct songs could provide more insight into these two intersecting processes.Another interesting question is the relationship between birdsong and habitat: did these two species\u2019 songs evolve so they each travel most effectively through the particular niche that the singers live in? Research has shown that birds living in dense vegetation with a complex structure (a rainforest, basically) tend to sing songs with narrow bandwidths, low frequencies, drawn-out song elements and longer inter-element intervals, whereas birds that sing songs with broad bandwidths, high frequencies, short song elements and compressed inter-element intervals tend to live in more open habitats that lack obstructive vegetation (grasslands and the like). But you don\u2019t need to be a scientist or a birdwatcher to appreciate and be excited by the discovery of new species. Professor Alstr\u00f6m pointed out in email: \u201cALL living organisms are interesting, and there are SO MANY cool creatures all over the world that are thoroughly enjoyable to observe.\u201dPer Alstro\u0308m, Canwei Xia, Pamela C Rasmussen, Urban Olsson, Bo Dai, Jian Zhao, Paul J Leader, Geoff J Carey, Lu Dong, Tianlong Cai, Paul I Holt, Hung Le Manh, Gang Song, Yang Liu, Yanyun Zhang and Fumin Lei (2015). Integrative taxonomy of the Russet Bush Warbler Locustella mandelli complex reveals a new species from central China, Avian Research, 6 (9) doi:10.1186/s40657-015-0016-z (OA)Per Alstr\u00f6m [emails: 19, 20, 27-3o April & 1 May 2015]Pam Rasmussen [emails: 28 April 2015]Background:Alstr\u00f6m P., Fregin S., Norman J.A., Ericson P.G.P., Christidis L. & Olsson U. (2011). Multilocus analysis of a taxonomically densely sampled dataset reveal extensive non-monophyly in the avian family Locustellidae, Molecular phylogenetics and evolution, 58 513-526. doi:10.1016/j.ympev.2010.12.012 (\u20a4 [Free PDF summarising main findings])... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..When she\u2019s not out birding or trying to hack audio embed codes, GrrlScientist is very active on twitter @GrrlScientist and sometimes lurks on social media: facebook, G+, LinkedIn, and Pinterest.", "tags": ["Science", "Animal behaviour", "Biology", "Zoology", "Taxonomy", "Animals", "Birds", "Birdwatching", "Environment", "Wildlife", "China", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New bird species discovered in a bush in China | @GrrlScientist"},{"date": "2015-05-26T18:28:22Z", "country": "china", "content": "China unveiled a military strategy on Tuesday to project naval power further from its own shores and announced plans for two lighthouses on reefs in the South China Sea, moves likely to increase tensions with Washington and regional powers over the disputed waters.A white paper issued by China\u2019s state council, or cabinet, said the navy will shift from a policy of defending offshore waters to a combined goal of \u201coffshore waters defence and open seas protection\u201d.  Related: Taiwan proposes South China Sea peace plan to avert 'major conflict' Several regional powers including the Philippines and Vietnam have overlapping claims in the South China Sea, one of the world\u2019s busiest shipping routes.The high seas were one of four \u201ccritical security domains\u201d highlighted in the paper, the others being outer space, cyberspace and nuclear force, although the white paper underlined that China wants to avoid a nuclear arms race or the weaponisation of space.In the more immediate naval sphere, however, Beijing appears more assertive. The paper also warned distant powers against \u201cprovocative\u201d actions and interference in South China Sea affairs, an apparent reference to Washington\u2019s very publicly-aired concerns about a large-scale Chinese land reclamation project around mostly uninhabited reefs and atolls in the disputed waters.The Chinese works are turning submerged reefs into airstrips, and creating thousands of hectares of dry land on artificial islands, with the pace of construction speeding up in recent months. One of the biggest US concerns is land reclamation on reef formations that would not otherwise allow China to claim territorial waters because they are submerged at high tide and not capable of supporting independent life. Xinhua on Tuesday published pictures of lighthouse construction on two coral reefs, Chigua and Huayang, showing a groundbreaking ceremony that was perhaps more likely to involve ground creation.\u201cThe ministry of transport plans to construct two multi-functional lighthouses, which will provide efficient navigation service to the passing vessels and immensely improve the navigation safety in the South China Sea,\u201d Xinhua said in a report.Plans to ramp up the US military presence in the area would probably involve flying over and sailing close to artificial islands that were only reefs before the latest building project, and China last week issued multiple warnings to a US plane flying above Fiery Cross reef, where China has built an early-warning radar station and airstrip.Defence ministry spokesman Yang Yujun said that the country\u2019s reclamation activities were comparable with development of homes, roads and other infrastructure on the mainland.\u201cFrom the perspective of sovereignty, there is absolutely no difference,\u201d Yan told a news conference to launch the new military white paper. Some countries with \u201culterior motives\u201d had unfairly characterized China\u2019s military presence and sensationalised the issue, Reuters reported.The dispute has pushed together regional powers who a few years ago might have been as wary of neighbours with claims on the islands as they were of Beijing.The Philippines have backed the US, and President Benigno Aquinosaid this week that they will continue to fly over the disputed areas despite Chinese warnings.\u201cWe will still fly the routes that we fly based on the international law from the various conventions we entered into,\u201d the AFP news agency quoted him saying.The country\u2019s defence minister also said he would ask for more defence equipment from Tokyo, the same day that Japan also agreed to bolster security and maritime safety ties with Malaysia and start talks on transfers of defence equipment and technology.", "tags": ["China", "Philippines", "Vietnam", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Japan", "Malaysia"], "title": "South China Sea tensions escalate as China unveils plans for lighthouses"},{"date": "2015-06-30T13:26:46Z", "country": "china", "content": "China will aim to cut its greenhouse gas emissions per unit of gross domestic product by 60-65% from 2005 levels under a plan submitted to the United Nations ahead of crucial climate change talks in Paris later this year.The pledge has been eagerly awaited as the country is the world\u2019s largest carbon emitter. China said it would increase the share of non-fossil fuels as part of its primary energy consumption to about 20% by 2030, and peak emissions by around the same point, though it would \u201cwork hard\u201d to do so earlier. The figures are contained in a document submitted to the United Nations ahead of the next round of UN climate talks in Paris. All countries are expected to submit their national pledges to reduce carbon emissions beyond 2020, also known as Intended Nationally Determined Contributions (INDC).China plans to increase its installed capacity of wind power to 200GW and solar power to around 100 gigawatts (GW), up from 95.81GW and 28GW today, respectively. It will also increase its use of natural gas which is expected to make up more than 10% of its primary energy consumption by 2020. According to estimates by E3G, a European-based environmental thinktank, China\u2019s plan will see it install as much low-carbon energy as the entire US electricity system capacity to date. China\u2019s pledge largely reflects commitments it made in November last year as part of an agreement struck with the US. Li Shuo, senior climate and energy policy officer with Greenpeace, said he believes the figures announced are floor figures and that China is definitely capable of over-achieving. He said it reflects the actions that are being taken domestically as China attempts to reduce its toxic levels of air pollution that are a result of its rapid coal-based economic growth. China\u2019s premier Li Keqiang has previously \u201cdeclared war\u201d on pollution, describing it as a \u201cblight\u201d on people\u2019s quality of life. Coal consumption still accounts for around 66% of China\u2019s energy consumption. Last year, China\u2019s cabinet announced a plan to cap coal consumption by 2020 at a level of 4.2bn tonnes and for coal to make up no more than 62% of the primary energy mix by the same year.Changhua Wu, China director of the Climate Group said China\u2019s INDC is a \u201cpositive boost\u201d to the international climate change process. \u201cChina\u2019s effort to align its domestic growth agenda and global climate change agenda is a leading example of how a fundamental shift is needed to grow the economy differently,\u201d she said.In its document submitted to the UN, China said the outcomes of the negotiations in Paris \u201cshould take into account differentiated historical responsibilities\u201d, a reference to the fact developed countries have put more carbon into the atmosphere over time than developing countries.However, according to the Climate Group, due to China\u2019s massive economic development and taking into account emissions from 1990 to now, the country has almost caught up with the US\u2019s total historical emissions. China\u2019s pledge is expected to give an important boost to efforts to reach a global deal on reducing emissions beyond 2020 in Paris, which UN secretary general Ban Ki-moon warned on Monday were moving at a snail\u2019s pace. Mohamed Adow, Christian Aid\u2019s senior climate change adviser, said China\u2019s pledge is a \u201chuge step\u201d. Ahead of the talks in Copenhagen in 2009, China and the US were criticised for holding back progress, and \u201cnow China is leading the way. It shows that China is starting to do its bit. This is a new era for climate politics,\u201d said Adow. However, it is not likely that the pledges that have been submitted, including China\u2019s, are sufficient to keep global temperatures rises below the internationally-agreed target of 2C, according to Li Shuo. \u201cWe think the collective ambition of what has been putting on the table, in particular major emitters (EU, China, US) are not sufficient to help us maintain below 2C,\u201d said Li. \u201cNow it is the task of the political process all the way to Paris to ensure we have a robust agreement by the end of this year to enhance action further.\u201d ", "tags": ["COP 21: UN climate change conference | Paris", "Global climate talks", "Environment", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Climate change", "World news", "China"], "title": "China makes carbon pledge ahead of Paris climate change summit"},{"date": "2015-06-29T11:07:07Z", "country": "china", "content": "China\u2019s stock market slumped into bear market territory amid panicky trading on Monday, despite its central bank unexpectedly cutting interest rates over the weekend in an effort to stem the selling.The Shanghai composite index has now lost more than 20% since its recent peak on 10 June, putting it into official correction territory after it more than doubled over the last year. Even including these losses, however, the index is still up more than 29% since January.The latest falls have been partly fuelled by fears of a growing crackdown by regulators on loans used to speculate on shares, amid concerns that some investors were being forced to sell at a loss if the falling markets triggered breaches in their borrowing terms.Traders also said the share price boom was out of kilter with the Chinese economy, which is now growing at its slowest pace for six years.The index closed a further 3.34% lower at 4053.03 on Monday after losing more than 7% at one point in one of the most volatile sessions the market has seen. The escalating financial crisis in Greece also contributed to uncertainty. On Friday, the index closed 7.4% lower. Related: Greece debt crisis: markets slide after capital controls imposed - live ING Bank said: \u201cTrying to create an environment for a healthy stock market without stoking speculative excess has proved challenging. Like all recent sharp corrections, Friday\u2019s was triggered by fears of a crackdown on margin lending after a local broker took steps to curb margin holdings.\u201d There was little comfort from the central bank\u2019s move on Saturday to cut a key interest rate by 25 basis points to 4.85% and reduce the reserve requirements \u2013 the amount of reserves that banks are required to hold \u2013 by 50 basis points. The bank said one of the policy goalswas to calm stock market fluctuations.Analysts at UBS said: \u201cAfter Friday\u2019s ... market plunge, many turned to the authorities for support measures as concerns rose that the rapid unwinding of margin trades was fuelling the sell-off.\u201cAs such, Saturday\u2019s monetary easing will surely give the impression that monetary policy is being used as a direct response to stock market fluctuations. While this belief can help ensure near-term market stability, the impact on longer-term market health is less clear.\u201d Samuel Chien, at Shanghai hedge fund BoomTrent Investment Management, told Reuters: \u201cThe market is still fragile because the clean-up of grey-market margin financing is still going on, and last week\u2019s market tumble triggered some margin calls and some investors are under pressure to sell.\u201dMeanwhile, Bank of America Merrill Lynch said that recent rate cuts had not prevented shares from falling: \u201cShort-term bounce aside, we doubt that the latest cuts will trigger any sustained rally.\u201d", "tags": ["Chinese economy", "China", "Asia Pacific", "Business", "World news", "Stock markets"], "title": "China markets slump despite central bank rate cut"},{"date": "2015-06-29T19:00:04Z", "country": "china", "content": "An ancient marine worm discovered in China has been identified as the earliest known animal to have used body armour to defend itself against predators.The creature is known as the Hairy Collins\u2019 Monster or Collinsium ciliosum, after paleontololgist Desmond Collins, who first discovered a similar fossil in the 1980s. The Chinese specimen lived around 500 million years ago and developed \u201csuper-armour\u201d - an array of 72 spikes along its back and sides - to protect itself from other life forms that existed at the time.Collinsium was around 85mm long, and as well as its spiky armour had six pairs of brush-like front legs and nine pairs of clawed rear ones. Scientists believe that the creature\u2019s defence mechanism may have evolved due to the its unusual eating strategy, which involved using its front legs as a feeding basket to sieve plankton from the water, while clinging onto rocks with its rear legs.Dr Javier Ortega-Hern\u00e1ndez, a paleobiologist at the University of Cambridge who co-led the research, said: \u201cThe armour comes in because during this behaviour it would be visually attractive and an easy target. Instead of hiding under a rock it defended itself by developing armour.\u201d The fossils, discovered in Southern China\u2019s Yunnan Province, date to the Cambrian period, when a diverse and sometimes bizarre array of life forms were rapidly emerging in the Earth\u2019s oceans.These included the largest predator of the period, Anomalocaris, a giant shrimp-like creature that used two front prongs to rake up soft-bodied animals into a disc-like mouth of overlapping plates that crushed prey. Collinsium\u2019s sharp spikes would have provided effective protection against such a grisly end, Ortega-Hern\u00e1ndez said.\u201cThere were plenty of predators around which could snatch it, and with it being a soft-bodied animal it would be a tasty snack.\u201dThe authors describe Collinsium as one of the many \u201cevolutionary experiments\u201d of the Cambrian period; one which ultimately failed, as it has no direct ancestors living today. Its closest living relative is thought to be the velvet worm, which inhabits modern-day tropical forests.\u201cMaybe they went extinct because of competition, or because they were so peculiar,\u201d said Ortega-Hern\u00e1ndez. \u201cIt\u2019s a really rare animal, and very hard to preserve, but we don\u2019t know basically \u2013 it\u2019s really a big mystery.\u201dThe findings are published in the journal PNAS.", "tags": ["Fossils", "Evolution", "University of Cambridge", "Science", "Biology", "China"], "title": "Hairy monster: ancient 'super-armoured' worm discovered in China"},{"date": "2015-06-13T11:00:07Z", "country": "china", "content": "Joyce\u2019s image in China holds a strange fascination in the west. When the first third of Finnegans Wake, his last and most notoriously difficult book, was published in Shanghai in 2013, newspapers in Britain and America greeted the announcement as a momentous event. Certainly, the salient details of the story are arresting: 72 years had passed since the publication of the novel in London in 1941; seven years had elapsed since Dai Congrong had agreed to undertake the formidable task of translation; and when the book appeared between luxuriously silky dark-green boards, heavy with pages of explanatory notes, it became an immediate commercial success.By what miracles of linguistic mastery and literary imagination could Chinese characters be made to capture Joyce\u2019s mind-bending manipulations of the alphabet? By what subtleties of cross-cultural understanding could the specificities of Ireland and its mythologies be translated for a Chinese audience? Could the translation be trusted if it made Finnegans Wake a bestseller?When Ulysses was first published in Paris in 1922, Joyce responded with delight to news that an order had been placed from China: \u201cTen copies to Peking!\u201d he exclaimed. Ulysses, even more than Finnegans Wake, is alive in China today. Two Joyce-themed stage productions have recently toured major Chinese cities. Both are the brainchildren of Andy Arnold, the artistic director of Glasgow\u2019s Tron theatre, and form part of a programme of performances for a UK-China Year of Cultural Exchange. The first, A Journey Round James Joyce, offers an elegantly devised biographical reimagining of Joyce\u2019s life in Trieste between 1905 and 1915. The second, Ulysses, is a revival of the Tron\u2019s successful 2012 production of Dermot Bolger\u2019s adaptation (A Dublin Bloom, 1996). They performed to full and enthusiastic houses in Beijing, Shanghai, Hangzhou and Jinan.For much of the 20th century, Joyce\u2019s name was not one to be lightly pronounced or printed in China. Even as late as 1982 \u2013 as Jin Di, Ulysses\u2019s first translator, reports \u2013 a state official commenting on the centenary of Joyce\u2019s birth described the world of Leopold Bloom as \u201cshocking in its pettiness, obscurity, ugliness, and confusion\u201d and as emblematic of \u201cthe decadence of the modern bourgeoisie\u201d.Yet by 1996, not one but two versions of Ulysses were available to Chinese readers. The novel sold very well, and western newspapers, as they would later about Finnegans Wake, commented on Ulysses\u2019s bestseller status in China with a mixture of excitement and bemusement. But the book\u2019s journey had in a sense only begun. Works of such length and complexity take time to percolate into a nation\u2019s living rooms and classrooms. These days, if you ask about James Joyce \u2013 or \u201cZhanmusi Qiaoyisi\u201d, as his name is transliterated in Chinese pinyin \u2013 in a Chinese bookshop you will be led to shelves lined with relevant volumes. The vast five-floor Xinhua bookshop on Wangfujing, a crowded shopping avenue just round the corner from Tiananmen Square, currently stocks no fewer than four different editions of Ulysses \u2013 one in English, and three in Chinese. Copies of Dubliners, A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man, Exiles and Finnegans Wake are also available.The tastes and identifications of China\u2019s expanding and dynamic middle class are part of the explanation for this renaissance. Where Joyce stood for bourgeois corruption only three decades ago, he now stands for cosmopolitan sophistication. Chinese people have an affectionate epithet for those particularly enamoured of the western way of life and its consumer comforts: they call such internationally minded bourgeois \u201cxiaozi\u201d \u2013 literally, \u201clittle capitalists\u201d. It is to a large degree such educated \u201cxiaozi\u201d who are driving the success of Arnold\u2019s plays.A Journey Round James Joyce was conceived specifically with China in mind. Performed in Chinese by Chinese actors, the play conjures Joyce and Nora Barnacle\u2019s departure from Ireland, Joyce\u2019s carousing in the bars of Trieste, the language lessons he gave to make a living, Nora\u2019s housekeeping and henpecking, his writing and its connections to his experiences in exile. The script consists of an ingenious collage of quotations assembled from many corners of Joyce\u2019s works and letters. In its departures from biographical fact and disruptions of chronological sequence, A Journey Round James Joyce bears some likeness to the theatrical fantasy by which Tom Stoppard imagined Joyce\u2019s life in Z\u00fcrich in Travesties in 1974. Yet the tone of this piece is quite different, fluctuating between broad comedy and romance, tension and melodrama.To western eyes, the sight and sound of a Chinese James Joyce and Nora Barnacle is completely disorienting (Joyce\u2019s recognisable glasses are at first the only obvious echo of a familiar story) and a thought-provoking reminder of the extent of the differences translations have to negotiate. As the play unfolds, snippets of the Irish songs and Italian operas Joyce loved (\u201cDown by the Salley Gardens\u201d, Madame Butterfly) add to the international ambiance of the Journey. The costumes and the exquisitely minimalist set are the fruits of Arnold\u2019s collaboration with Beijing\u2019s Xinchan theatre.Arnold\u2019s Ulysses is a wilder piece of theatre. Performed in English with Chinese surtitles, the play stages a recapitulation of all the novel\u2019s best-known moments \u2013 a \u201cgreatest hits\u201d formula. But the play makes great demands on anyone encountering Joyce\u2019s world for the first time: it would be fairly difficult, without prior knowledge of the book, and without a sense of the Dublin world in which it is rooted, to make head or tail of the spectacular whirligig of scenes by which Arnold recreates the events of Bloomsday.The play inverts the chronology of Joyce\u2019s book by presenting the events of 16 June 1904 as the stuff of Bloom\u2019s dreams after his return to the marital bed in the early hours of the following morning. The re-enactment of the key moments of his day is interwoven with excerpts from his wife Molly\u2019s famous closing soliloquy.What the Tron emphatically brings to Ulysses is the inventive energy and the daring to engage with a classic text. Joyce\u2019s odyssey in China, and the drama of east and west captured in its moving hall of mirrors, continues.", "tags": ["James Joyce", "Books", "Culture", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Radio", "Television", "BBC", "Media", "Television & radio"], "title": "James Joyce \u2013 big in China"},{"date": "2015-05-13T12:43:05Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has warned the United States not to take \u201crisky or provocative actions\u201d in a dispute over territorial claims in the South China Sea, as Washington contemplates a stronger stance in the area.The US defence secretary, Ash Carter, concerned about China\u2019s rapid expansion of artificial islands, has asked staff to look at options including sending ships and planes closer to reefs claimed by Beijing, the Wall Street Journal reported. China\u2019s foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told a news conference: \u201cWe are seriously concerned about the remarks on this issue by the US, and we think the US needs to make a clarification.\u201dShe said China respected the freedom of navigation for international traffic in the area, but that did not allow warships and military planes to enter territorial waters and airspace.\u201cChina will resolutely safeguard its own sovereignty. We call on the relevant parties to be cautious with their words and actions, and not take any risky or provocative actions,\u201d Hua said.The US has long insisted that it does not take sides in the complex territorial disputes in the region, but there have been growing tensions in recent months over China\u2019s aggressive land reclamation projects in the Spratly Islands.Several regional powers including the Philippines and Vietnam have overlapping claims to the area, mostly uninhabited reefs and atolls that lie in one of the world\u2019s busiest shipping routes.For years those claims were contested mostly by ships or between officials, but in recent years Beijing decided to reinforce its claims by expanding its territory. Since last year, building projects have quadrupled the size of artificial islands in Chinese-claimed areas, to 2,000 hectares. The projects include an airstrip that could be large enough for fighter jets and surveillance aircraft, the Wall Street Journal quoted the defence intelligence provider IHS Jane\u2019s as saying.The report said the change in US stance would involve flying over and sailing close to artificial islands that were only reefs before the latest building project. China says its territorial waters extend for 12 nautical miles from the land, a line that the US has challenged verbally but until now ordered its navy to respect.Some regional allies want the US to take a stronger stance in challenging China, while others fear that ratcheting up the pressure only raises the risk of military confrontation and could encourage Beijing to speed up building work even more, the report said.The White House would have to sign off on any change in the US posture, and the Wall Street Journal said it had declined to comment.Luna Lin contributed research to this article", "tags": ["China", "US foreign policy", "US news", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "China urges caution from US over South China Sea disputes"},{"date": "2015-05-07T15:09:13Z", "country": "china", "content": "Steve Koon, the founding partner of Innovate99 Impact Investment, and Robin Zhang, founding partner of Venture Avenue, are two of a growing number of Chinese social investors. They have partnered with the British Council for over five years to provide training, mentoring and funding opportunities to social enterprises in China. We asked them about the sector\u2019s evolution and the opportunities and challenges that lie ahead. While China\u2019s economy has enjoyed near 10% growth for over 30 years, public services have been under strain from the weight of the world\u2019s largest population, massive rural migration to the cities and the restructuring of public health services. Moreover, the country is rapidly ageing: there are now some 200 million Chinese over the age of 60, accounting for almost 15% of the population, and their number is set to carry on rising. This coupled with its other social and environmental issues means that China is in serious need of new approaches to public services.That\u2019s where social enterprise, which is now beginning to take off, could really make a difference. \u201cSocial enterprises can target people who can pay to generate profits to subsidise those who can\u2019t pay\u201d says Koon. \u201cThe key is to go beyond the \u2018free and government subsidy\u2019 models to develop market-based solutions.\u201dKoon goes on to say that \u201celderly services and special education are the two sectors most suitable for social enterprise solutions. [They] can deliver the most impact and financial return because of the possibility of building up a scalable business model.\u201dZhang likewise sees opportunities in helping NGOs working in education, medical care and elderly care adopt revenue generating social enterprise models. Moreover, he believes that \u201curban inclusion of migrant workers and connecting small rural economies to cities\u201d is a highly promising area of work for social enterprises in China. \u201cThese two issues impact on reducing the gap between rural and urban China, and help improve social stability,\u201d he adds.China\u2019s meteoric rise has caused many changes in Chinese society \u2013 and these have been reflected in the development of social enterprise over its relatively short existence. Both investors have seen an increase in the scale and number of social enterprises in China in recent years, but it is another change that has most profoundly marked the sector\u2019s evolution. \u201cWhen we started in 2009, most of the participants [in social enterprise training programmes] were from traditional NGOs and grassroots charity organisations. In the last couple of years, however, we began to have more participants from the business sector,\u201d says Koon.Zhang goes on to say that \u201c[these] \u2018newcomers\u2019 from the business world [are] converting their already successful enterprises into social enterprises.\u201dWhile this brought more activity, business experience and capital to the social enterprise sector, it also created new challenges.As Koon puts it: \u201cAt the beginning, the needs were very one-way: how to change from non-profits to social enterprises. As more participants from the business sector joined, another need emerged; changing from a commercial organisation to a social enterprise. The needs changed from a \u2018one-way street to a two-way highway\u2019.\u201cThe scale was also becoming bigger. We had organisations whose annual budget ranged from 100,000 renminbi to a few million [\u00a310,000 to a few hundred thousand]. Some were just serving a few people while others were helping hundreds or even thousands of people.\u201dZhang adds that \u201cwhile the old social enterprises need more incubation services, the new social enterprises need more validation that what they are doing is meaningful, and therefore valued by society.\u201dA major barrier to the development of social enterprise in China is the fact that it enjoys no legal definition or formal government recognition. And after a few well publicised scandals involving NGOs, there is deep mistrust of allowing businesses engaged in seemingly charitable causes to pay dividends to shareholders \u2013 something which is at the core of some social enterprise concepts but also debated in the west.Aside from these high-level cultural barriers, social enterprises in China also face the same types of operational challenges as those in other countries, though according to Steve Koon access to funding does not top the list. The sheer scale of China\u2019s social needs dwarf the entirety of the UK social enterprise sector\u201cThe problem is always finding organisations with a scalable strategy and talented people. When I say strategy, I mean a long-term vision plus a practical five-year plan with sustainable revenues to help the organisation grow in both scale and quality of service. When I say people, I mean people with passion and commitment plus business management competence; in other words, professional managers with a sense of mission.\u201dThe sheer number of people in need is also a big problem.\u201cIn the UK, there are a lot of resources and [relatively] few people in need. In China, you have very few resources and too many people in need.\u201dHe adds that in the disability sector alone there are over 80 million people in need in China, more than the total population of the UK.\u201cThe sheer scale of China\u2019s social needs dwarf the entirety of the UK social enterprise sector.\u201dHowever, despite these issues, both investors are very optimistic about the future of social enterprise in China.Zhang believes that the sector\u2019s growth in China over the next five to 10 years will be \u201cexplosive\u201d, and expects more and more NGOs, especially in the education, medical care and elderly care industries, to adjust their approach and incorporate some revenue generating activity. Koon says: \u201cAs China\u2019s economy keeps growing, the amount of resources will increase. As the internet and smartphones become more popular, social problems also become more transparent and more people will join in to help.\u201dContent on this page is paid for and provided by the British Council, sponsor of the international social enterprise hub", "tags": ["Social Enterprise British Council Partner zone"], "title": "The shape of social enterprise in China"},{"date": "2015-05-01T08:20:53Z", "country": "china", "content": "A new bird species has been discovered in central China by an international team of scientists. This shy brown bird, named the Sichuan bush warbler, Locustella chengi, breeds in the mountainous region of the Sichuan Basin at 1000-2300 m elevation. Its winter home is currently unknown. This bird was first noticed whilst singing its distinctive song in May 1992 by two members of the research team, who thought it might be something new. After nearly two decades of searching, they found the bird again. Extensive analyses of the bird\u2019s DNA, physical measurements, plumage colour and vocalisations confirmed their hunch that this is indeed a new bird species to science.\u201cI first heard this species together with my friend Urban Olsson when we visited the sacred Emei mountain in Sichuan province, central China in May 1992\u201d, writes Per Alstr\u00f6m, a professor of systematics and evolution at Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences (Sveriges Lantbruksuniversitet) and lead author on this paper. Professor Olsson, associate professor of systematics and biodiversity at the University of Gothenburg (G\u00f6teborgs universitet), is one of the many co-authors on this paper. \u201cWe heard a song that was unfamiliar to us coming from a dense patch of tall herbs close to the trail. The song didn\u2019t sound very \u2018bird-like\u2019, and as we couldn\u2019t see a trace of any bird, we were debating for a little while whether it was a bird or some insect\u201d, recalls Professor Alstr\u00f6m.\u201cAlthough we thought it was most likely a bird.\u201dThe sound they heard was a series of repeated phrases consisting of a drawn-out harsh note followed by a shorter note. This is the sound they heard on that particular morning in May 1992 (fig.2):Eventually, the two friends caught several fleeting glimpses of a small round-bodied chocolate-brown bird with a dark stubby tail, long pink legs, large dark eyes and a pointy black beak, scampering quickly through the dense underbrush. After listening and watching for awhile, they decided this shy little bird was their singer, and that it looked rather like a russet bush warbler, Locustella mandelli (pictured below) -- a species that both men had previously seen and heard in northwest Thailand.But this bird\u2019s song was so strange! Was it really a russet bush warbler? Although neither was convinced, they couldn\u2019t be sure since they neither saw nor heard this elusive bird again during that visit.The two friends returned home to Sweden, pondering this mousy bird. Meanwhile, weeks lengthened into months and turned into years -- many years, in fact. During the ensuing decades, the two friends landed good jobs at separate universities in Sweden, relocated a few times and immersed themselves into their work, their colleagues and students, and their families. Yet neither forgot their encounter with that mysterious little chocolate-brown bird in the faraway mountains of China.Nearly twenty years later, Professor Alstr\u00f6m returned to China as a visiting professor at the Chinese Academy of Sciences. He was just as determined to find and identify this mystery bird as when he first heard it. Some of Professor Alstr\u00f6m\u2019s bird-watching colleagues in China had noticed this mystery bird, too. Soon, Professor Alstr\u00f6m and his Chinese colleagues were even discussing this species using the provisional name they\u2019d given it; \u201cSichuan bush warbler\u201d. After learning that the \u201cSichuan bush warbler\u201d and the russet bush warbler had both been found breeding in the Qinling mountains, a team was assembled to seek out both birds, to learn more about how they interacted with each other. Together with his Chinese colleagues Fumin Lei, Gang Song and Zuohua Yin from the Institute of Zoology at the Chinese Academy of Sciences in Beijing and Xuebin Gao from the Shaanxi Institute of Zoology in Xian, they mounted an expedition to the Qinling mountains, where they collected the first \u201cSichuan bush warbler\u201d on 28 May 2011. This individual is the holotype for his species, which is to say that he is the one specimen that represents what the species looks like. This specimen is now housed in the Institute of Zoology at Chinese Academy of Sciences, along with sound recordings and a sample of his DNA.Later, more individuals were spotted, captured and measured, their songs recorded and DNA samples collected. Back in the lab, mitochondrial DNA analyses of samples from birds in the genus Locustella revealed that these two bush warblers are very closely related. Further, these analyses estimated that the two species diverged from a common ancestor roughly 850,000 years ago (fig. 3).The team measured plumage colour across each bird\u2019s body as well as a variety of physical features -- length, height and width of each bird\u2019s beak, and wing and leg length, for example. Analyses of these measurements confirmed that the two species are significantly different. For example, when compared to the russet bush warbler, the Sichuan bush warbler\u2019s breeding plumage is generally greyer overall, lacking the appropriately-named russet bush warbler\u2019s strong russet tones. They also found that the Sichuan bush warbler has a shorter tail and longer wings than the russet bush warbler. The research team\u2019s field studies found that the Sichuan bush warbler is locally common, and does not appear to be under any imminent threat. By this time, the team gave this bird its formal names: its English name refers to Sichuan province where it was first discovered, and its specific name, chengi, honours the late professor Cheng Tso-hsin (1906\u20131998), China\u2019s greatest ornithologist.The Sichuan bush warbler is very similar to its closest relative, the russet bush warbler, but the two species are not identical. Which raises the question: short of carrying an automated PCR and DNA sequencer into the field -- laboratory equipment that can be as large and as heavy as a refrigerator-freezer -- how can an ornithologist or birder reliably distinguish these bird species, especially when they are hiding in an impenetrable bush, as they tend to do?This is where the science and the art of bird watching meet because identifying birds requires careful study of the bird in the field combined with a deep knowledge of each species\u2019 natural history. In the case of these two cryptic species, several characters help distinguish them. First, the russet bush warbler\u2019s range (orange dots, fig. 1) is not identical to that of the Sichuan bush warbler (red dots, fig. 1). Second, even where their ranges overlap, as in parts of Sichuan Province, the two species breed at different elevations: the Sichuan bush warbler nests on lower mountainsides (fig. 4, left) whilst the russet bush warbler nests at higher altitudes (fig. 4, right).But the most obvious difference of all, especially for those who listen carefully to birds, is song. The Sichuan bush warbler sings a lower-pitched song with more drawn out notes (fig. 2) compared to the russet bush warbler (fig. 5):Not only do these two species\u2019 songs sound dramatically different, but a side-by-side comparison between the sonograms created from their song elements also look strikingly different (figure 6):Discoveries provoke questions, and this newly identified species will likely trigger a plethora of interesting research, particularly about evolution and the process of speciation in birds. For example, understanding how the common ancestor of these two bird species came to differentially exploit past environments could shed more light upon the complex relationships between evolution, ecology, geology and climate. Of course, such an investigation is made more challenging by the lack of fossils.As an ornithologist and birder, a basic question that I\u2019ve been pondering is which came first, the song or the species? Song is an important form of communication in birds. They use it to maintain their breeding territories, to advertise their overall fitness, and to attract mates. Since female songbirds choose their mates based on their songs, ornithologists are investigating how female choice influences the evolution of male song. These two, nearly identical, species that inhabit distinct niches and produce distinct songs could provide more insight into these two intersecting processes.Another interesting question is the relationship between birdsong and habitat: did these two species\u2019 songs evolve so they each travel most effectively through the particular niche that the singers live in? Research has shown that birds living in dense vegetation with a complex structure (a rainforest, basically) tend to sing songs with narrow bandwidths, low frequencies, drawn-out song elements and longer inter-element intervals, whereas birds that sing songs with broad bandwidths, high frequencies, short song elements and compressed inter-element intervals tend to live in more open habitats that lack obstructive vegetation (grasslands and the like). But you don\u2019t need to be a scientist or a birdwatcher to appreciate and be excited by the discovery of new species. Professor Alstr\u00f6m pointed out in email: \u201cALL living organisms are interesting, and there are SO MANY cool creatures all over the world that are thoroughly enjoyable to observe.\u201dPer Alstro\u0308m, Canwei Xia, Pamela C Rasmussen, Urban Olsson, Bo Dai, Jian Zhao, Paul J Leader, Geoff J Carey, Lu Dong, Tianlong Cai, Paul I Holt, Hung Le Manh, Gang Song, Yang Liu, Yanyun Zhang and Fumin Lei (2015). Integrative taxonomy of the Russet Bush Warbler Locustella mandelli complex reveals a new species from central China, Avian Research, 6 (9) doi:10.1186/s40657-015-0016-z (OA)Per Alstr\u00f6m [emails: 19, 20, 27-3o April & 1 May 2015]Pam Rasmussen [emails: 28 April 2015]Background:Alstr\u00f6m P., Fregin S., Norman J.A., Ericson P.G.P., Christidis L. & Olsson U. (2011). Multilocus analysis of a taxonomically densely sampled dataset reveal extensive non-monophyly in the avian family Locustellidae, Molecular phylogenetics and evolution, 58 513-526. doi:10.1016/j.ympev.2010.12.012 (\u20a4 [Free PDF summarising main findings])... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..When she\u2019s not out birding or trying to hack audio embed codes, GrrlScientist is very active on twitter @GrrlScientist and sometimes lurks on social media: facebook, G+, LinkedIn, and Pinterest.", "tags": ["Science", "Animal behaviour", "Biology", "Zoology", "Taxonomy", "Animals", "Birds", "Birdwatching", "Environment", "Wildlife", "China", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New bird species discovered in a bush in China | @GrrlScientist"},{"date": "2015-05-26T18:28:22Z", "country": "china", "content": "China unveiled a military strategy on Tuesday to project naval power further from its own shores and announced plans for two lighthouses on reefs in the South China Sea, moves likely to increase tensions with Washington and regional powers over the disputed waters.A white paper issued by China\u2019s state council, or cabinet, said the navy will shift from a policy of defending offshore waters to a combined goal of \u201coffshore waters defence and open seas protection\u201d.  Related: Taiwan proposes South China Sea peace plan to avert 'major conflict' Several regional powers including the Philippines and Vietnam have overlapping claims in the South China Sea, one of the world\u2019s busiest shipping routes.The high seas were one of four \u201ccritical security domains\u201d highlighted in the paper, the others being outer space, cyberspace and nuclear force, although the white paper underlined that China wants to avoid a nuclear arms race or the weaponisation of space.In the more immediate naval sphere, however, Beijing appears more assertive. The paper also warned distant powers against \u201cprovocative\u201d actions and interference in South China Sea affairs, an apparent reference to Washington\u2019s very publicly-aired concerns about a large-scale Chinese land reclamation project around mostly uninhabited reefs and atolls in the disputed waters.The Chinese works are turning submerged reefs into airstrips, and creating thousands of hectares of dry land on artificial islands, with the pace of construction speeding up in recent months. One of the biggest US concerns is land reclamation on reef formations that would not otherwise allow China to claim territorial waters because they are submerged at high tide and not capable of supporting independent life. Xinhua on Tuesday published pictures of lighthouse construction on two coral reefs, Chigua and Huayang, showing a groundbreaking ceremony that was perhaps more likely to involve ground creation.\u201cThe ministry of transport plans to construct two multi-functional lighthouses, which will provide efficient navigation service to the passing vessels and immensely improve the navigation safety in the South China Sea,\u201d Xinhua said in a report.Plans to ramp up the US military presence in the area would probably involve flying over and sailing close to artificial islands that were only reefs before the latest building project, and China last week issued multiple warnings to a US plane flying above Fiery Cross reef, where China has built an early-warning radar station and airstrip.Defence ministry spokesman Yang Yujun said that the country\u2019s reclamation activities were comparable with development of homes, roads and other infrastructure on the mainland.\u201cFrom the perspective of sovereignty, there is absolutely no difference,\u201d Yan told a news conference to launch the new military white paper. Some countries with \u201culterior motives\u201d had unfairly characterized China\u2019s military presence and sensationalised the issue, Reuters reported.The dispute has pushed together regional powers who a few years ago might have been as wary of neighbours with claims on the islands as they were of Beijing.The Philippines have backed the US, and President Benigno Aquinosaid this week that they will continue to fly over the disputed areas despite Chinese warnings.\u201cWe will still fly the routes that we fly based on the international law from the various conventions we entered into,\u201d the AFP news agency quoted him saying.The country\u2019s defence minister also said he would ask for more defence equipment from Tokyo, the same day that Japan also agreed to bolster security and maritime safety ties with Malaysia and start talks on transfers of defence equipment and technology.", "tags": ["China", "Philippines", "Vietnam", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Japan", "Malaysia"], "title": "South China Sea tensions escalate as China unveils plans for lighthouses"},{"date": "2015-06-30T13:26:46Z", "country": "china", "content": "China will aim to cut its greenhouse gas emissions per unit of gross domestic product by 60-65% from 2005 levels under a plan submitted to the United Nations ahead of crucial climate change talks in Paris later this year.The pledge has been eagerly awaited as the country is the world\u2019s largest carbon emitter. China said it would increase the share of non-fossil fuels as part of its primary energy consumption to about 20% by 2030, and peak emissions by around the same point, though it would \u201cwork hard\u201d to do so earlier. The figures are contained in a document submitted to the United Nations ahead of the next round of UN climate talks in Paris. All countries are expected to submit their national pledges to reduce carbon emissions beyond 2020, also known as Intended Nationally Determined Contributions (INDC).China plans to increase its installed capacity of wind power to 200GW and solar power to around 100 gigawatts (GW), up from 95.81GW and 28GW today, respectively. It will also increase its use of natural gas which is expected to make up more than 10% of its primary energy consumption by 2020. According to estimates by E3G, a European-based environmental thinktank, China\u2019s plan will see it install as much low-carbon energy as the entire US electricity system capacity to date. China\u2019s pledge largely reflects commitments it made in November last year as part of an agreement struck with the US. Li Shuo, senior climate and energy policy officer with Greenpeace, said he believes the figures announced are floor figures and that China is definitely capable of over-achieving. He said it reflects the actions that are being taken domestically as China attempts to reduce its toxic levels of air pollution that are a result of its rapid coal-based economic growth. China\u2019s premier Li Keqiang has previously \u201cdeclared war\u201d on pollution, describing it as a \u201cblight\u201d on people\u2019s quality of life. Coal consumption still accounts for around 66% of China\u2019s energy consumption. Last year, China\u2019s cabinet announced a plan to cap coal consumption by 2020 at a level of 4.2bn tonnes and for coal to make up no more than 62% of the primary energy mix by the same year.Changhua Wu, China director of the Climate Group said China\u2019s INDC is a \u201cpositive boost\u201d to the international climate change process. \u201cChina\u2019s effort to align its domestic growth agenda and global climate change agenda is a leading example of how a fundamental shift is needed to grow the economy differently,\u201d she said.In its document submitted to the UN, China said the outcomes of the negotiations in Paris \u201cshould take into account differentiated historical responsibilities\u201d, a reference to the fact developed countries have put more carbon into the atmosphere over time than developing countries.However, according to the Climate Group, due to China\u2019s massive economic development and taking into account emissions from 1990 to now, the country has almost caught up with the US\u2019s total historical emissions. China\u2019s pledge is expected to give an important boost to efforts to reach a global deal on reducing emissions beyond 2020 in Paris, which UN secretary general Ban Ki-moon warned on Monday were moving at a snail\u2019s pace. Mohamed Adow, Christian Aid\u2019s senior climate change adviser, said China\u2019s pledge is a \u201chuge step\u201d. Ahead of the talks in Copenhagen in 2009, China and the US were criticised for holding back progress, and \u201cnow China is leading the way. It shows that China is starting to do its bit. This is a new era for climate politics,\u201d said Adow. However, it is not likely that the pledges that have been submitted, including China\u2019s, are sufficient to keep global temperatures rises below the internationally-agreed target of 2C, according to Li Shuo. \u201cWe think the collective ambition of what has been putting on the table, in particular major emitters (EU, China, US) are not sufficient to help us maintain below 2C,\u201d said Li. \u201cNow it is the task of the political process all the way to Paris to ensure we have a robust agreement by the end of this year to enhance action further.\u201d ", "tags": ["COP 21: UN climate change conference | Paris", "Global climate talks", "Environment", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Climate change", "World news", "China"], "title": "China makes carbon pledge ahead of Paris climate change summit"},{"date": "2015-06-29T11:07:07Z", "country": "china", "content": "China\u2019s stock market slumped into bear market territory amid panicky trading on Monday, despite its central bank unexpectedly cutting interest rates over the weekend in an effort to stem the selling.The Shanghai composite index has now lost more than 20% since its recent peak on 10 June, putting it into official correction territory after it more than doubled over the last year. Even including these losses, however, the index is still up more than 29% since January.The latest falls have been partly fuelled by fears of a growing crackdown by regulators on loans used to speculate on shares, amid concerns that some investors were being forced to sell at a loss if the falling markets triggered breaches in their borrowing terms.Traders also said the share price boom was out of kilter with the Chinese economy, which is now growing at its slowest pace for six years.The index closed a further 3.34% lower at 4053.03 on Monday after losing more than 7% at one point in one of the most volatile sessions the market has seen. The escalating financial crisis in Greece also contributed to uncertainty. On Friday, the index closed 7.4% lower. Related: Greece debt crisis: markets slide after capital controls imposed - live ING Bank said: \u201cTrying to create an environment for a healthy stock market without stoking speculative excess has proved challenging. Like all recent sharp corrections, Friday\u2019s was triggered by fears of a crackdown on margin lending after a local broker took steps to curb margin holdings.\u201d There was little comfort from the central bank\u2019s move on Saturday to cut a key interest rate by 25 basis points to 4.85% and reduce the reserve requirements \u2013 the amount of reserves that banks are required to hold \u2013 by 50 basis points. The bank said one of the policy goalswas to calm stock market fluctuations.Analysts at UBS said: \u201cAfter Friday\u2019s ... market plunge, many turned to the authorities for support measures as concerns rose that the rapid unwinding of margin trades was fuelling the sell-off.\u201cAs such, Saturday\u2019s monetary easing will surely give the impression that monetary policy is being used as a direct response to stock market fluctuations. While this belief can help ensure near-term market stability, the impact on longer-term market health is less clear.\u201d Samuel Chien, at Shanghai hedge fund BoomTrent Investment Management, told Reuters: \u201cThe market is still fragile because the clean-up of grey-market margin financing is still going on, and last week\u2019s market tumble triggered some margin calls and some investors are under pressure to sell.\u201dMeanwhile, Bank of America Merrill Lynch said that recent rate cuts had not prevented shares from falling: \u201cShort-term bounce aside, we doubt that the latest cuts will trigger any sustained rally.\u201d", "tags": ["Chinese economy", "China", "Asia Pacific", "Business", "World news", "Stock markets"], "title": "China markets slump despite central bank rate cut"},{"date": "2015-06-29T19:00:04Z", "country": "china", "content": "An ancient marine worm discovered in China has been identified as the earliest known animal to have used body armour to defend itself against predators.The creature is known as the Hairy Collins\u2019 Monster or Collinsium ciliosum, after paleontololgist Desmond Collins, who first discovered a similar fossil in the 1980s. The Chinese specimen lived around 500 million years ago and developed \u201csuper-armour\u201d - an array of 72 spikes along its back and sides - to protect itself from other life forms that existed at the time.Collinsium was around 85mm long, and as well as its spiky armour had six pairs of brush-like front legs and nine pairs of clawed rear ones. Scientists believe that the creature\u2019s defence mechanism may have evolved due to the its unusual eating strategy, which involved using its front legs as a feeding basket to sieve plankton from the water, while clinging onto rocks with its rear legs.Dr Javier Ortega-Hern\u00e1ndez, a paleobiologist at the University of Cambridge who co-led the research, said: \u201cThe armour comes in because during this behaviour it would be visually attractive and an easy target. Instead of hiding under a rock it defended itself by developing armour.\u201d The fossils, discovered in Southern China\u2019s Yunnan Province, date to the Cambrian period, when a diverse and sometimes bizarre array of life forms were rapidly emerging in the Earth\u2019s oceans.These included the largest predator of the period, Anomalocaris, a giant shrimp-like creature that used two front prongs to rake up soft-bodied animals into a disc-like mouth of overlapping plates that crushed prey. Collinsium\u2019s sharp spikes would have provided effective protection against such a grisly end, Ortega-Hern\u00e1ndez said.\u201cThere were plenty of predators around which could snatch it, and with it being a soft-bodied animal it would be a tasty snack.\u201dThe authors describe Collinsium as one of the many \u201cevolutionary experiments\u201d of the Cambrian period; one which ultimately failed, as it has no direct ancestors living today. Its closest living relative is thought to be the velvet worm, which inhabits modern-day tropical forests.\u201cMaybe they went extinct because of competition, or because they were so peculiar,\u201d said Ortega-Hern\u00e1ndez. \u201cIt\u2019s a really rare animal, and very hard to preserve, but we don\u2019t know basically \u2013 it\u2019s really a big mystery.\u201dThe findings are published in the journal PNAS.", "tags": ["Fossils", "Evolution", "University of Cambridge", "Science", "Biology", "China"], "title": "Hairy monster: ancient 'super-armoured' worm discovered in China"},{"date": "2015-06-25T18:38:47Z", "country": "china", "content": "Sales of McLarensports cars in China slowed \u201cquite dramatically\u201d at the end of last year after Beijing launched an anti-corruption drive.A rise in sales across Asia, triggered by an expanding network of their stores, was part credited with the increase in revenues from \u00a3285.4m to \u00a3475.5m.Chief executive Mike Flewitt said that while the company had a successful launch in China, sales slowed after the government made buying a luxury vehicle appear socially unacceptable. Customers are now buying cars but asking the company to hold off on delivery, he said.McLaren Automotive\u2019s vehicles range in cost from \u00a3140,000 to \u00a32m. Last year, it delivered 1,649 cars, said Flewitt. Profit before tax grew to \u00a315m last year, from \u00a34.5m the previous year. Flewitt said that the typical buyer of one of their cars in western Europe is a 45-year-old male who had been successful in business, but in China, buyers tended to be aged in their 20s.\u201c[In] China we had a very strong launch at the end of 2013 and 2014 was going incredibly well. Come November/December we saw the market slow down quite dramatically,\u201d he said.The Woking-based company said there had also been growth in North America, Europe and the Middle East but the greatest rise was seen in Asia. Between the end of 2013 and the end of 2014, the numbers of retailers they had in China went from four to nine. The company said it aimed to make 1,800 vehicles in the current year and raise production to 4,000 by 2017. it ", "tags": ["Automotive industry", "Luxury goods sector", "Business", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "McLaren's profits and sales rise despite China slowdown"},{"date": "2015-09-23T03:14:18Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has ticked off Malcolm Turnbull over his comments on the South China Sea, saying Australia should maintain a neutral position over the contested area.\u201cWe hope that Australia will stay committed to not taking sides on issues concerning disputes over sovereignty,\u201d foreign ministry spokesman Hong Lei told reporters in Beijing.On Monday the new prime minister said island-building in the disputed area was \u201cpushing the envelope\u201d of acceptable behaviour. Related: What\u2019s behind Beijing\u2019s drive to control the South China Sea? | Howard W French \u201cThe pushing the envelope in the South China Sea has had the consequence of exactly the reverse consequence of what China would seek to achieve,\u201d Turnbull told the ABC on Monday.Hong said the situation in the South China Sea was generally stable, and Beijing was having bilateral talks with nations concerned to resolve the disputes, as well as working with Asean nations to safeguard peace and stability in the area.On Tuesday the Philippine president, Benigno Aquino, rejected China\u2019s calls for a bilateral dialogue, saying that any talks should involve other countries that claim parts of the area such as Brunei, Malaysia, Vietnam and Taiwan.China, Vietnam and Taiwan claim all 200 or so of the Spratlys land features in the South China Sea, while Brunei, the Philippines and Malaysia claim parts of them.On Monday Turnbull said China\u2019s territorial ambitions in the South China Sea had been one of the more counterproductive foreign policies the Asian country had ever undertaken.\u201cWhat the island construction and all of the activity in the South China Sea has done has resulted in the smaller countries surrounding that area turning to the US even more than they did before,\u201d he said.Australia\u2019s new defence minister, Marise Payne, backed Turnbull\u2019s comments.\u201cHis remarks were very considered \u2013 I would have no difference with those remarks,\u201d she said on Tuesday.A Pentagon report released in August said China has reclaimed more than 1,174 hectares of land from the South China Sea in less than two years in its intensive island-building campaign.", "tags": ["Asia Pacific", "China", "Malcolm Turnbull", "Australian politics", "Philippines", "Australia news"], "title": "China admonishes Malcolm Turnbull on South China Sea comments"},{"date": "2015-09-23T03:14:18Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has ticked off Malcolm Turnbull over his comments on the South China Sea, saying Australia should maintain a neutral position over the contested area.\u201cWe hope that Australia will stay committed to not taking sides on issues concerning disputes over sovereignty,\u201d foreign ministry spokesman Hong Lei told reporters in Beijing.On Monday the new prime minister said island-building in the disputed area was \u201cpushing the envelope\u201d of acceptable behaviour. Related: What\u2019s behind Beijing\u2019s drive to control the South China Sea? | Howard W French \u201cThe pushing the envelope in the South China Sea has had the consequence of exactly the reverse consequence of what China would seek to achieve,\u201d Turnbull told the ABC on Monday.Hong said the situation in the South China Sea was generally stable, and Beijing was having bilateral talks with nations concerned to resolve the disputes, as well as working with Asean nations to safeguard peace and stability in the area.On Tuesday the Philippine president, Benigno Aquino, rejected China\u2019s calls for a bilateral dialogue, saying that any talks should involve other countries that claim parts of the area such as Brunei, Malaysia, Vietnam and Taiwan.China, Vietnam and Taiwan claim all 200 or so of the Spratlys land features in the South China Sea, while Brunei, the Philippines and Malaysia claim parts of them.On Monday Turnbull said China\u2019s territorial ambitions in the South China Sea had been one of the more counterproductive foreign policies the Asian country had ever undertaken.\u201cWhat the island construction and all of the activity in the South China Sea has done has resulted in the smaller countries surrounding that area turning to the US even more than they did before,\u201d he said.Australia\u2019s new defence minister, Marise Payne, backed Turnbull\u2019s comments.\u201cHis remarks were very considered \u2013 I would have no difference with those remarks,\u201d she said on Tuesday.A Pentagon report released in August said China has reclaimed more than 1,174 hectares of land from the South China Sea in less than two years in its intensive island-building campaign.", "tags": ["Asia Pacific", "China", "Malcolm Turnbull", "Australian politics", "Philippines", "Australia news"], "title": "China admonishes Malcolm Turnbull on South China Sea comments"},{"date": "2015-08-26T12:36:08Z", "country": "china", "content": "Hollywood studio Warner Bros is set to move into China in a big way, as reports emerge of talks between the US film producers and China Media Capital, a state-backed investment fund, to create a joint venture that will make Chinese-language films aimed at the Chinese domestic market.This comes in the wake of rapidly increasing takings at the Chinese box office \u2013 according to the Wall Street Journal, the total for 2015 is up 43% on the year before, at $4.3bn (\u00a32.75bn). Four out of the top 10 films in China in 2015 are Hollywood imports \u2013 led by Fast and Furious 7 ($379.1m/\u00a3243m) \u2013 but the remaining six are Chinese in origin, with titles including Monster Hunt, Jian Bing Man and The Man From Macau 2.It would appear to be this latter category of film that Warner Bros is targeting, and with a rigid quota of 34 films per year that Hollywood is allowed to export to China and earn receipts from, the joint venture may prove a way to circumvent the tough government rules.The Warner Bros deal does not represent Hollywood\u2019s first move in this area: in 2012, DreamWorks unveiled a joint venture to produce Chinese-language films in Shanghai and \u201cco-operate\u201d on the production of Kung Fu Panda 3, due for release in 2016. Reports suggest that Warner Bros will contribute $50m (\u00a332m) to the new joint venture. However, it is not known how the current turmoil in China\u2019s financial markets may affect its progress.", "tags": ["Film", "Warner Bros", "Film industry", "China", "Asia Pacific", "Business", "Culture", "World news"], "title": "Warner Bros moves into China"},{"date": "2015-09-23T03:14:18Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has ticked off Malcolm Turnbull over his comments on the South China Sea, saying Australia should maintain a neutral position over the contested area.\u201cWe hope that Australia will stay committed to not taking sides on issues concerning disputes over sovereignty,\u201d foreign ministry spokesman Hong Lei told reporters in Beijing.On Monday the new prime minister said island-building in the disputed area was \u201cpushing the envelope\u201d of acceptable behaviour. Related: What\u2019s behind Beijing\u2019s drive to control the South China Sea? | Howard W French \u201cThe pushing the envelope in the South China Sea has had the consequence of exactly the reverse consequence of what China would seek to achieve,\u201d Turnbull told the ABC on Monday.Hong said the situation in the South China Sea was generally stable, and Beijing was having bilateral talks with nations concerned to resolve the disputes, as well as working with Asean nations to safeguard peace and stability in the area.On Tuesday the Philippine president, Benigno Aquino, rejected China\u2019s calls for a bilateral dialogue, saying that any talks should involve other countries that claim parts of the area such as Brunei, Malaysia, Vietnam and Taiwan.China, Vietnam and Taiwan claim all 200 or so of the Spratlys land features in the South China Sea, while Brunei, the Philippines and Malaysia claim parts of them.On Monday Turnbull said China\u2019s territorial ambitions in the South China Sea had been one of the more counterproductive foreign policies the Asian country had ever undertaken.\u201cWhat the island construction and all of the activity in the South China Sea has done has resulted in the smaller countries surrounding that area turning to the US even more than they did before,\u201d he said.Australia\u2019s new defence minister, Marise Payne, backed Turnbull\u2019s comments.\u201cHis remarks were very considered \u2013 I would have no difference with those remarks,\u201d she said on Tuesday.A Pentagon report released in August said China has reclaimed more than 1,174 hectares of land from the South China Sea in less than two years in its intensive island-building campaign.", "tags": ["Asia Pacific", "China", "Malcolm Turnbull", "Australian politics", "Philippines", "Australia news"], "title": "China admonishes Malcolm Turnbull on South China Sea comments"},{"date": "2015-08-26T12:36:08Z", "country": "china", "content": "Hollywood studio Warner Bros is set to move into China in a big way, as reports emerge of talks between the US film producers and China Media Capital, a state-backed investment fund, to create a joint venture that will make Chinese-language films aimed at the Chinese domestic market.This comes in the wake of rapidly increasing takings at the Chinese box office \u2013 according to the Wall Street Journal, the total for 2015 is up 43% on the year before, at $4.3bn (\u00a32.75bn). Four out of the top 10 films in China in 2015 are Hollywood imports \u2013 led by Fast and Furious 7 ($379.1m/\u00a3243m) \u2013 but the remaining six are Chinese in origin, with titles including Monster Hunt, Jian Bing Man and The Man From Macau 2.It would appear to be this latter category of film that Warner Bros is targeting, and with a rigid quota of 34 films per year that Hollywood is allowed to export to China and earn receipts from, the joint venture may prove a way to circumvent the tough government rules.The Warner Bros deal does not represent Hollywood\u2019s first move in this area: in 2012, DreamWorks unveiled a joint venture to produce Chinese-language films in Shanghai and \u201cco-operate\u201d on the production of Kung Fu Panda 3, due for release in 2016. Reports suggest that Warner Bros will contribute $50m (\u00a332m) to the new joint venture. However, it is not known how the current turmoil in China\u2019s financial markets may affect its progress.", "tags": ["Film", "Warner Bros", "Film industry", "China", "Asia Pacific", "Business", "Culture", "World news"], "title": "Warner Bros moves into China"},{"date": "2015-07-09T17:07:05Z", "country": "china", "content": "SuperGroup is stepping into China via a joint venture deal with Trendy International Group, a casual fashion company backed by LVMH, the luxury goods house that owns Louis Vuitton and C\u00e9line.The company behind the fashion brand Superdry said it would invest \u00a39m in the deal with TIG, which has around 3,000 stores across China including outlets for Italian brand Miss Sixty as well as its own labels Ochirly, Five Plus and Trendiano.SuperGroup said it was entering the new market in a \u201ccontrolled and managed way\u201d and would not open the first stores until the middle of next year.\u201cChina is a very exciting market and forecast to overtake the US as the largest apparel and footwear market in the world,\u201d it said.\u201cCustomer tastes are evolving from luxury brands to brands influenced by pop culture and we believe that the Superdry brand, with the right product, pricing model and infrastructure, is well positioned to be successful.\u201dThe move into China comes after SuperGroup bought back exclusive rights to distribute the Superdry brand in the US, Canada and Mexico for \u00a322.3m, and hired Luther and The Wire actor Idris Elba to help relaunch its brand across the Atlantic.The deal ended a 30-year licence with a US partner which had delivered just 15 stores and last year made a \u00a35m loss on \u00a320m of sales. SuperGroup also plans to expand in Europe, including Germany and Austria.Kate Calvert, an analyst at Investec, welcomed the move saying the company not only had the potential to double its UK and European-owned store base but now had longer-term growth prospects in the US and China.SuperGroup also revealed a 2% rise in underlying pretax profits to \u00a363.2m in the year to 25 April. Sales rose 12.9% to \u00a3486.6m.The company said trading in its new financial year had started well with like-for-like retail sales up 20.3% in the first 10 weeks, although that was set against a weak trading period the year before.", "tags": ["SuperGroup", "Business", "Retail industry"], "title": "SuperGroup embarks on China expansion"},{"date": "2015-09-23T03:14:18Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has ticked off Malcolm Turnbull over his comments on the South China Sea, saying Australia should maintain a neutral position over the contested area.\u201cWe hope that Australia will stay committed to not taking sides on issues concerning disputes over sovereignty,\u201d foreign ministry spokesman Hong Lei told reporters in Beijing.On Monday the new prime minister said island-building in the disputed area was \u201cpushing the envelope\u201d of acceptable behaviour. Related: What\u2019s behind Beijing\u2019s drive to control the South China Sea? | Howard W French \u201cThe pushing the envelope in the South China Sea has had the consequence of exactly the reverse consequence of what China would seek to achieve,\u201d Turnbull told the ABC on Monday.Hong said the situation in the South China Sea was generally stable, and Beijing was having bilateral talks with nations concerned to resolve the disputes, as well as working with Asean nations to safeguard peace and stability in the area.On Tuesday the Philippine president, Benigno Aquino, rejected China\u2019s calls for a bilateral dialogue, saying that any talks should involve other countries that claim parts of the area such as Brunei, Malaysia, Vietnam and Taiwan.China, Vietnam and Taiwan claim all 200 or so of the Spratlys land features in the South China Sea, while Brunei, the Philippines and Malaysia claim parts of them.On Monday Turnbull said China\u2019s territorial ambitions in the South China Sea had been one of the more counterproductive foreign policies the Asian country had ever undertaken.\u201cWhat the island construction and all of the activity in the South China Sea has done has resulted in the smaller countries surrounding that area turning to the US even more than they did before,\u201d he said.Australia\u2019s new defence minister, Marise Payne, backed Turnbull\u2019s comments.\u201cHis remarks were very considered \u2013 I would have no difference with those remarks,\u201d she said on Tuesday.A Pentagon report released in August said China has reclaimed more than 1,174 hectares of land from the South China Sea in less than two years in its intensive island-building campaign.", "tags": ["Asia Pacific", "China", "Malcolm Turnbull", "Australian politics", "Philippines", "Australia news"], "title": "China admonishes Malcolm Turnbull on South China Sea comments"},{"date": "2015-08-26T12:36:08Z", "country": "china", "content": "Hollywood studio Warner Bros is set to move into China in a big way, as reports emerge of talks between the US film producers and China Media Capital, a state-backed investment fund, to create a joint venture that will make Chinese-language films aimed at the Chinese domestic market.This comes in the wake of rapidly increasing takings at the Chinese box office \u2013 according to the Wall Street Journal, the total for 2015 is up 43% on the year before, at $4.3bn (\u00a32.75bn). Four out of the top 10 films in China in 2015 are Hollywood imports \u2013 led by Fast and Furious 7 ($379.1m/\u00a3243m) \u2013 but the remaining six are Chinese in origin, with titles including Monster Hunt, Jian Bing Man and The Man From Macau 2.It would appear to be this latter category of film that Warner Bros is targeting, and with a rigid quota of 34 films per year that Hollywood is allowed to export to China and earn receipts from, the joint venture may prove a way to circumvent the tough government rules.The Warner Bros deal does not represent Hollywood\u2019s first move in this area: in 2012, DreamWorks unveiled a joint venture to produce Chinese-language films in Shanghai and \u201cco-operate\u201d on the production of Kung Fu Panda 3, due for release in 2016. Reports suggest that Warner Bros will contribute $50m (\u00a332m) to the new joint venture. However, it is not known how the current turmoil in China\u2019s financial markets may affect its progress.", "tags": ["Film", "Warner Bros", "Film industry", "China", "Asia Pacific", "Business", "Culture", "World news"], "title": "Warner Bros moves into China"},{"date": "2015-07-09T17:07:05Z", "country": "china", "content": "SuperGroup is stepping into China via a joint venture deal with Trendy International Group, a casual fashion company backed by LVMH, the luxury goods house that owns Louis Vuitton and C\u00e9line.The company behind the fashion brand Superdry said it would invest \u00a39m in the deal with TIG, which has around 3,000 stores across China including outlets for Italian brand Miss Sixty as well as its own labels Ochirly, Five Plus and Trendiano.SuperGroup said it was entering the new market in a \u201ccontrolled and managed way\u201d and would not open the first stores until the middle of next year.\u201cChina is a very exciting market and forecast to overtake the US as the largest apparel and footwear market in the world,\u201d it said.\u201cCustomer tastes are evolving from luxury brands to brands influenced by pop culture and we believe that the Superdry brand, with the right product, pricing model and infrastructure, is well positioned to be successful.\u201dThe move into China comes after SuperGroup bought back exclusive rights to distribute the Superdry brand in the US, Canada and Mexico for \u00a322.3m, and hired Luther and The Wire actor Idris Elba to help relaunch its brand across the Atlantic.The deal ended a 30-year licence with a US partner which had delivered just 15 stores and last year made a \u00a35m loss on \u00a320m of sales. SuperGroup also plans to expand in Europe, including Germany and Austria.Kate Calvert, an analyst at Investec, welcomed the move saying the company not only had the potential to double its UK and European-owned store base but now had longer-term growth prospects in the US and China.SuperGroup also revealed a 2% rise in underlying pretax profits to \u00a363.2m in the year to 25 April. Sales rose 12.9% to \u00a3486.6m.The company said trading in its new financial year had started well with like-for-like retail sales up 20.3% in the first 10 weeks, although that was set against a weak trading period the year before.", "tags": ["SuperGroup", "Business", "Retail industry"], "title": "SuperGroup embarks on China expansion"},{"date": "2015-07-02T04:22:23Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has almost finished construction of a 3,000m runway on the disputed Spratly islands in the South China Sea, satellite images have shown.The airstrip \u2013 the first by China on the islands it claims in the area \u2013 has been paved and taxiways have been built, according to the images published by the Asia Maritime Transparency Initiative (AMTI).\u201cTwo helipads, up to 10 satellite communications antennas, and one possible radar tower are also visible,\u201d said the Washington-based group, adding that two lighthouses and one cement plant have also been built on the island.The runway is large enough for heavy military transport planes and fighters. Images taken in April showed it only a third complete, demonstrating that it has since been constructed at a rapid rate.Fiery Cross Reef is one of several small islands in the South China Sea that China has been reclaiming, using dredger barges which scoop up sand and coral and pile it on to the reef.Although lying hundreds of miles south of its shores, China claims most of the South China Sea. The Philippines, Vietnam, Malaysia, Brunei and Taiwan also have overlapping claims.The United States and Japan also oppose China\u2019s reclamation of islands and environmentalists argue it destroys delicate reef ecology. The area is a busy shipping route connecting to the Strait of Malacca and the Pacific and is believed to have rich oil and gas deposits. The South China Sea is a key sea route for roughly \u00a33.17tn in trade.Beijing says the island outposts will serve maritime search and rescue missions, disaster relief, environmental protection as well as undefined military purposes.China\u2019s top diplomat, state councillor Yang Jiechi, said last week that \u201cnavigation freedom in the South China Sea is guaranteed\u201d.\u201cWe do believe that there will not be any issue or problem with navigational freedom in future. We hope the US can be impartial and objective to serve peace and stability in this region,\u201d he said after talks in Washington.Bonnie Glaser, a senior adviser for the Center for Strategic & International Studies, said that the beginning of the typhoon season means there could be a lull in activity over the coming month.She said that an upcoming visit by China\u2019s President Xi Jinping to the US in September could also dampen the drive by Beijing to militarise the islands. Related: Japan joins with former foes to flex its muscles as it eyes China's rise \u201cThat said, I do think that activity will again pick up again, perhaps in the fall. The Chinese are going to continue with construction, militarisation, but what we have over the summer is at least an opportunity for more dialogue,\u201d she said.Philippines and Vietnamese ships in the South China Sea report they have increasingly been harassed by Chinese vessels. In May, a Chinese fishing vessel rammed and sank a Vietnamese fishing boat.Images published by AMTI also showed that China had added military facilities to the South Johnson Reef. A 3,000 square-metre port and two loading stations have been built and there are two helipads on the reef and up to three satellite communications antennas, AMTI said.It said a large, multi-level military facility is in the centre of the reef, with two possible radar towers under construction. \u201cUp to six security and surveillance towers being built with four possible weapons towers also under construction,\u201d it noted.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Philippines"], "title": "Satellite images Chinese-built runway artificial island finished"},{"date": "2015-09-23T03:14:18Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has ticked off Malcolm Turnbull over his comments on the South China Sea, saying Australia should maintain a neutral position over the contested area.\u201cWe hope that Australia will stay committed to not taking sides on issues concerning disputes over sovereignty,\u201d foreign ministry spokesman Hong Lei told reporters in Beijing.On Monday the new prime minister said island-building in the disputed area was \u201cpushing the envelope\u201d of acceptable behaviour. Related: What\u2019s behind Beijing\u2019s drive to control the South China Sea? | Howard W French \u201cThe pushing the envelope in the South China Sea has had the consequence of exactly the reverse consequence of what China would seek to achieve,\u201d Turnbull told the ABC on Monday.Hong said the situation in the South China Sea was generally stable, and Beijing was having bilateral talks with nations concerned to resolve the disputes, as well as working with Asean nations to safeguard peace and stability in the area.On Tuesday the Philippine president, Benigno Aquino, rejected China\u2019s calls for a bilateral dialogue, saying that any talks should involve other countries that claim parts of the area such as Brunei, Malaysia, Vietnam and Taiwan.China, Vietnam and Taiwan claim all 200 or so of the Spratlys land features in the South China Sea, while Brunei, the Philippines and Malaysia claim parts of them.On Monday Turnbull said China\u2019s territorial ambitions in the South China Sea had been one of the more counterproductive foreign policies the Asian country had ever undertaken.\u201cWhat the island construction and all of the activity in the South China Sea has done has resulted in the smaller countries surrounding that area turning to the US even more than they did before,\u201d he said.Australia\u2019s new defence minister, Marise Payne, backed Turnbull\u2019s comments.\u201cHis remarks were very considered \u2013 I would have no difference with those remarks,\u201d she said on Tuesday.A Pentagon report released in August said China has reclaimed more than 1,174 hectares of land from the South China Sea in less than two years in its intensive island-building campaign.", "tags": ["Asia Pacific", "China", "Malcolm Turnbull", "Australian politics", "Philippines", "Australia news"], "title": "China admonishes Malcolm Turnbull on South China Sea comments"},{"date": "2015-08-26T12:36:08Z", "country": "china", "content": "Hollywood studio Warner Bros is set to move into China in a big way, as reports emerge of talks between the US film producers and China Media Capital, a state-backed investment fund, to create a joint venture that will make Chinese-language films aimed at the Chinese domestic market.This comes in the wake of rapidly increasing takings at the Chinese box office \u2013 according to the Wall Street Journal, the total for 2015 is up 43% on the year before, at $4.3bn (\u00a32.75bn). Four out of the top 10 films in China in 2015 are Hollywood imports \u2013 led by Fast and Furious 7 ($379.1m/\u00a3243m) \u2013 but the remaining six are Chinese in origin, with titles including Monster Hunt, Jian Bing Man and The Man From Macau 2.It would appear to be this latter category of film that Warner Bros is targeting, and with a rigid quota of 34 films per year that Hollywood is allowed to export to China and earn receipts from, the joint venture may prove a way to circumvent the tough government rules.The Warner Bros deal does not represent Hollywood\u2019s first move in this area: in 2012, DreamWorks unveiled a joint venture to produce Chinese-language films in Shanghai and \u201cco-operate\u201d on the production of Kung Fu Panda 3, due for release in 2016. Reports suggest that Warner Bros will contribute $50m (\u00a332m) to the new joint venture. However, it is not known how the current turmoil in China\u2019s financial markets may affect its progress.", "tags": ["Film", "Warner Bros", "Film industry", "China", "Asia Pacific", "Business", "Culture", "World news"], "title": "Warner Bros moves into China"},{"date": "2015-07-09T17:07:05Z", "country": "china", "content": "SuperGroup is stepping into China via a joint venture deal with Trendy International Group, a casual fashion company backed by LVMH, the luxury goods house that owns Louis Vuitton and C\u00e9line.The company behind the fashion brand Superdry said it would invest \u00a39m in the deal with TIG, which has around 3,000 stores across China including outlets for Italian brand Miss Sixty as well as its own labels Ochirly, Five Plus and Trendiano.SuperGroup said it was entering the new market in a \u201ccontrolled and managed way\u201d and would not open the first stores until the middle of next year.\u201cChina is a very exciting market and forecast to overtake the US as the largest apparel and footwear market in the world,\u201d it said.\u201cCustomer tastes are evolving from luxury brands to brands influenced by pop culture and we believe that the Superdry brand, with the right product, pricing model and infrastructure, is well positioned to be successful.\u201dThe move into China comes after SuperGroup bought back exclusive rights to distribute the Superdry brand in the US, Canada and Mexico for \u00a322.3m, and hired Luther and The Wire actor Idris Elba to help relaunch its brand across the Atlantic.The deal ended a 30-year licence with a US partner which had delivered just 15 stores and last year made a \u00a35m loss on \u00a320m of sales. SuperGroup also plans to expand in Europe, including Germany and Austria.Kate Calvert, an analyst at Investec, welcomed the move saying the company not only had the potential to double its UK and European-owned store base but now had longer-term growth prospects in the US and China.SuperGroup also revealed a 2% rise in underlying pretax profits to \u00a363.2m in the year to 25 April. Sales rose 12.9% to \u00a3486.6m.The company said trading in its new financial year had started well with like-for-like retail sales up 20.3% in the first 10 weeks, although that was set against a weak trading period the year before.", "tags": ["SuperGroup", "Business", "Retail industry"], "title": "SuperGroup embarks on China expansion"},{"date": "2015-07-02T04:22:23Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has almost finished construction of a 3,000m runway on the disputed Spratly islands in the South China Sea, satellite images have shown.The airstrip \u2013 the first by China on the islands it claims in the area \u2013 has been paved and taxiways have been built, according to the images published by the Asia Maritime Transparency Initiative (AMTI).\u201cTwo helipads, up to 10 satellite communications antennas, and one possible radar tower are also visible,\u201d said the Washington-based group, adding that two lighthouses and one cement plant have also been built on the island.The runway is large enough for heavy military transport planes and fighters. Images taken in April showed it only a third complete, demonstrating that it has since been constructed at a rapid rate.Fiery Cross Reef is one of several small islands in the South China Sea that China has been reclaiming, using dredger barges which scoop up sand and coral and pile it on to the reef.Although lying hundreds of miles south of its shores, China claims most of the South China Sea. The Philippines, Vietnam, Malaysia, Brunei and Taiwan also have overlapping claims.The United States and Japan also oppose China\u2019s reclamation of islands and environmentalists argue it destroys delicate reef ecology. The area is a busy shipping route connecting to the Strait of Malacca and the Pacific and is believed to have rich oil and gas deposits. The South China Sea is a key sea route for roughly \u00a33.17tn in trade.Beijing says the island outposts will serve maritime search and rescue missions, disaster relief, environmental protection as well as undefined military purposes.China\u2019s top diplomat, state councillor Yang Jiechi, said last week that \u201cnavigation freedom in the South China Sea is guaranteed\u201d.\u201cWe do believe that there will not be any issue or problem with navigational freedom in future. We hope the US can be impartial and objective to serve peace and stability in this region,\u201d he said after talks in Washington.Bonnie Glaser, a senior adviser for the Center for Strategic & International Studies, said that the beginning of the typhoon season means there could be a lull in activity over the coming month.She said that an upcoming visit by China\u2019s President Xi Jinping to the US in September could also dampen the drive by Beijing to militarise the islands. Related: Japan joins with former foes to flex its muscles as it eyes China's rise \u201cThat said, I do think that activity will again pick up again, perhaps in the fall. The Chinese are going to continue with construction, militarisation, but what we have over the summer is at least an opportunity for more dialogue,\u201d she said.Philippines and Vietnamese ships in the South China Sea report they have increasingly been harassed by Chinese vessels. In May, a Chinese fishing vessel rammed and sank a Vietnamese fishing boat.Images published by AMTI also showed that China had added military facilities to the South Johnson Reef. A 3,000 square-metre port and two loading stations have been built and there are two helipads on the reef and up to three satellite communications antennas, AMTI said.It said a large, multi-level military facility is in the centre of the reef, with two possible radar towers under construction. \u201cUp to six security and surveillance towers being built with four possible weapons towers also under construction,\u201d it noted.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Philippines"], "title": "Satellite images Chinese-built runway artificial island finished"},{"date": "2015-09-06T23:21:06Z", "country": "china", "content": "The economic downturn in China has compounded pressures on UK manufacturers and hit their output and exports, a leading business group will warn on Monday as it slashes its outlook for the sector.Sales to the domestic consumer market and booming car production have not been enough to make up for a drop in overseas demand, says the manufacturers\u2019 organisation EEF. Those manufacturers making mechanical equipment have been particularly hard hit as waning orders from China coincide with flagging demand from the oil and gas sector, itself hit by a plunging oil price.The trade group is halving its growth forecast for manufacturing this year to 0.7% from 1.5%, citing a \u201crollercoaster of risks\u201d that include renewed eurozone tensions and a slowdown in emerging markets, particularly China. EEF chief economist Lee Hopley said that while the overall UK economy looked set for \u201csolid\u201d growth this year, manufacturers were contending with a lower oil price, fragile eurozone growth, and now the blow to global investor confidence from turmoil in China.\u201cWhile UK data has continued to point to solid growth, UK manufacturing is having to contend with a rollercoaster of risks from the rest of the world and the white-knuckle ride is starting to take its toll,\u201d she said.\u201cWe\u2019ve seen the future of the eurozone on the line once again, turbulence and uncertainty over China and Greece and, of course, oil and gas are still a concern. Against this backdrop, it\u2019s no surprise that confidence is faltering and UK manufacturers are feeling less optimistic about their growth prospects for next year.\u201dThe gloomier outlook for manufacturing this year reflects signs of falling production and orders in EEF\u2019s latest survey of businesses, as well as a string of other weak indicators in the sector, including official figures showing it contracted in the second quarter. For the first time in more than two years, there were more companies reporting a drop in output than a rise, according to the EEF survey, published with law firm DLA Piper.The poll of 442 manufacturers showed that export orders fell to a six-year low in the past three months. Domestic orders were also down, hurt largely by weakness at those manufacturers reliant on the oil and gas sector.Looking ahead, more than a third of companies reported signs of improving demand in Europe \u2013 the UK\u2019s biggest export market \u2013 but the proportion of companies eyeing growth opportunities in Asia had fallen.The survey suggested there were still more companies planning to raise investment and employment rather than cut them, but only by a slim margin. Hopley said the extent of any further fallout from China\u2019s slowdown would be key for both employment and investment in the months ahead.\u201cIf there isn\u2019t something more persistent happening in China at the moment, companies feel they will wash through it. But clearly we are on amber alert for these [employment and investment] balances in the next quarter,\u201d she said.Economists point out China\u2019s slowdown has mixed effects on the UK. The downward pressure on oil prices is keeping inflation low and should boost household budgets. Meanwhile, the market turmoil could prompt the Bank of England to keep interest rates at their record low for longer.But for exporters, waning demand is another blow, on top of a stronger pound, that makes UK goods more expensive to overseas buyers. Manufacturers say that while direct UK exports to China are relatively small, it has been a growing market in recent years. China is the largest foreign market for British cars.The EEF has analysed what would happen to the UK economy if there was a 12% drop in China\u2019s imports, which is equivalent to the decline during the Asian financial crisis in the late 1990s. Such a fall would weigh on UK GDP, manufacturing output and, most notably, on manufactured exports, the group found, using its economic model.A separate report on the outlook for small businesses also flags deteriorating confidence, but points to domestic pressures. The Federation of Small Businesses says its members are more cautious after George Osborne\u2019s summer budget announced changes including taxes on dividends and a \u201cnational living wage\u201d.\u201cThe reaction to these changes is reflected in the evidence we present today, which shows confidence levels amongst members cooling markedly,\u201d said FSB national chairman John Allan.The group\u2019s survey of 1,580 small businesses showed they continued to hire new workers over the last three months, but at a slower rate than the previous quarter. Nearly six-in-10 small businesses, or 58.7%, plan to grow in the next 12 months, down from 65.3% in a poll three months ago.The poll also pointed to improving access to finance, a pickup in productivity and modest growth in exports.", "tags": ["Manufacturing sector", "Business", "Economics", "Economic growth (GDP)", "China", "Stock markets", "UK news", "Chinese economy"], "title": "UK manufacturing hit by turmoil in China"},{"date": "2015-09-23T03:14:18Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has ticked off Malcolm Turnbull over his comments on the South China Sea, saying Australia should maintain a neutral position over the contested area.\u201cWe hope that Australia will stay committed to not taking sides on issues concerning disputes over sovereignty,\u201d foreign ministry spokesman Hong Lei told reporters in Beijing.On Monday the new prime minister said island-building in the disputed area was \u201cpushing the envelope\u201d of acceptable behaviour. Related: What\u2019s behind Beijing\u2019s drive to control the South China Sea? | Howard W French \u201cThe pushing the envelope in the South China Sea has had the consequence of exactly the reverse consequence of what China would seek to achieve,\u201d Turnbull told the ABC on Monday.Hong said the situation in the South China Sea was generally stable, and Beijing was having bilateral talks with nations concerned to resolve the disputes, as well as working with Asean nations to safeguard peace and stability in the area.On Tuesday the Philippine president, Benigno Aquino, rejected China\u2019s calls for a bilateral dialogue, saying that any talks should involve other countries that claim parts of the area such as Brunei, Malaysia, Vietnam and Taiwan.China, Vietnam and Taiwan claim all 200 or so of the Spratlys land features in the South China Sea, while Brunei, the Philippines and Malaysia claim parts of them.On Monday Turnbull said China\u2019s territorial ambitions in the South China Sea had been one of the more counterproductive foreign policies the Asian country had ever undertaken.\u201cWhat the island construction and all of the activity in the South China Sea has done has resulted in the smaller countries surrounding that area turning to the US even more than they did before,\u201d he said.Australia\u2019s new defence minister, Marise Payne, backed Turnbull\u2019s comments.\u201cHis remarks were very considered \u2013 I would have no difference with those remarks,\u201d she said on Tuesday.A Pentagon report released in August said China has reclaimed more than 1,174 hectares of land from the South China Sea in less than two years in its intensive island-building campaign.", "tags": ["Asia Pacific", "China", "Malcolm Turnbull", "Australian politics", "Philippines", "Australia news"], "title": "China admonishes Malcolm Turnbull on South China Sea comments"},{"date": "2015-08-26T12:36:08Z", "country": "china", "content": "Hollywood studio Warner Bros is set to move into China in a big way, as reports emerge of talks between the US film producers and China Media Capital, a state-backed investment fund, to create a joint venture that will make Chinese-language films aimed at the Chinese domestic market.This comes in the wake of rapidly increasing takings at the Chinese box office \u2013 according to the Wall Street Journal, the total for 2015 is up 43% on the year before, at $4.3bn (\u00a32.75bn). Four out of the top 10 films in China in 2015 are Hollywood imports \u2013 led by Fast and Furious 7 ($379.1m/\u00a3243m) \u2013 but the remaining six are Chinese in origin, with titles including Monster Hunt, Jian Bing Man and The Man From Macau 2.It would appear to be this latter category of film that Warner Bros is targeting, and with a rigid quota of 34 films per year that Hollywood is allowed to export to China and earn receipts from, the joint venture may prove a way to circumvent the tough government rules.The Warner Bros deal does not represent Hollywood\u2019s first move in this area: in 2012, DreamWorks unveiled a joint venture to produce Chinese-language films in Shanghai and \u201cco-operate\u201d on the production of Kung Fu Panda 3, due for release in 2016. Reports suggest that Warner Bros will contribute $50m (\u00a332m) to the new joint venture. However, it is not known how the current turmoil in China\u2019s financial markets may affect its progress.", "tags": ["Film", "Warner Bros", "Film industry", "China", "Asia Pacific", "Business", "Culture", "World news"], "title": "Warner Bros moves into China"},{"date": "2015-07-09T17:07:05Z", "country": "china", "content": "SuperGroup is stepping into China via a joint venture deal with Trendy International Group, a casual fashion company backed by LVMH, the luxury goods house that owns Louis Vuitton and C\u00e9line.The company behind the fashion brand Superdry said it would invest \u00a39m in the deal with TIG, which has around 3,000 stores across China including outlets for Italian brand Miss Sixty as well as its own labels Ochirly, Five Plus and Trendiano.SuperGroup said it was entering the new market in a \u201ccontrolled and managed way\u201d and would not open the first stores until the middle of next year.\u201cChina is a very exciting market and forecast to overtake the US as the largest apparel and footwear market in the world,\u201d it said.\u201cCustomer tastes are evolving from luxury brands to brands influenced by pop culture and we believe that the Superdry brand, with the right product, pricing model and infrastructure, is well positioned to be successful.\u201dThe move into China comes after SuperGroup bought back exclusive rights to distribute the Superdry brand in the US, Canada and Mexico for \u00a322.3m, and hired Luther and The Wire actor Idris Elba to help relaunch its brand across the Atlantic.The deal ended a 30-year licence with a US partner which had delivered just 15 stores and last year made a \u00a35m loss on \u00a320m of sales. SuperGroup also plans to expand in Europe, including Germany and Austria.Kate Calvert, an analyst at Investec, welcomed the move saying the company not only had the potential to double its UK and European-owned store base but now had longer-term growth prospects in the US and China.SuperGroup also revealed a 2% rise in underlying pretax profits to \u00a363.2m in the year to 25 April. Sales rose 12.9% to \u00a3486.6m.The company said trading in its new financial year had started well with like-for-like retail sales up 20.3% in the first 10 weeks, although that was set against a weak trading period the year before.", "tags": ["SuperGroup", "Business", "Retail industry"], "title": "SuperGroup embarks on China expansion"},{"date": "2015-07-02T04:22:23Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has almost finished construction of a 3,000m runway on the disputed Spratly islands in the South China Sea, satellite images have shown.The airstrip \u2013 the first by China on the islands it claims in the area \u2013 has been paved and taxiways have been built, according to the images published by the Asia Maritime Transparency Initiative (AMTI).\u201cTwo helipads, up to 10 satellite communications antennas, and one possible radar tower are also visible,\u201d said the Washington-based group, adding that two lighthouses and one cement plant have also been built on the island.The runway is large enough for heavy military transport planes and fighters. Images taken in April showed it only a third complete, demonstrating that it has since been constructed at a rapid rate.Fiery Cross Reef is one of several small islands in the South China Sea that China has been reclaiming, using dredger barges which scoop up sand and coral and pile it on to the reef.Although lying hundreds of miles south of its shores, China claims most of the South China Sea. The Philippines, Vietnam, Malaysia, Brunei and Taiwan also have overlapping claims.The United States and Japan also oppose China\u2019s reclamation of islands and environmentalists argue it destroys delicate reef ecology. The area is a busy shipping route connecting to the Strait of Malacca and the Pacific and is believed to have rich oil and gas deposits. The South China Sea is a key sea route for roughly \u00a33.17tn in trade.Beijing says the island outposts will serve maritime search and rescue missions, disaster relief, environmental protection as well as undefined military purposes.China\u2019s top diplomat, state councillor Yang Jiechi, said last week that \u201cnavigation freedom in the South China Sea is guaranteed\u201d.\u201cWe do believe that there will not be any issue or problem with navigational freedom in future. We hope the US can be impartial and objective to serve peace and stability in this region,\u201d he said after talks in Washington.Bonnie Glaser, a senior adviser for the Center for Strategic & International Studies, said that the beginning of the typhoon season means there could be a lull in activity over the coming month.She said that an upcoming visit by China\u2019s President Xi Jinping to the US in September could also dampen the drive by Beijing to militarise the islands. Related: Japan joins with former foes to flex its muscles as it eyes China's rise \u201cThat said, I do think that activity will again pick up again, perhaps in the fall. The Chinese are going to continue with construction, militarisation, but what we have over the summer is at least an opportunity for more dialogue,\u201d she said.Philippines and Vietnamese ships in the South China Sea report they have increasingly been harassed by Chinese vessels. In May, a Chinese fishing vessel rammed and sank a Vietnamese fishing boat.Images published by AMTI also showed that China had added military facilities to the South Johnson Reef. A 3,000 square-metre port and two loading stations have been built and there are two helipads on the reef and up to three satellite communications antennas, AMTI said.It said a large, multi-level military facility is in the centre of the reef, with two possible radar towers under construction. \u201cUp to six security and surveillance towers being built with four possible weapons towers also under construction,\u201d it noted.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Philippines"], "title": "Satellite images Chinese-built runway artificial island finished"},{"date": "2015-09-06T23:21:06Z", "country": "china", "content": "The economic downturn in China has compounded pressures on UK manufacturers and hit their output and exports, a leading business group will warn on Monday as it slashes its outlook for the sector.Sales to the domestic consumer market and booming car production have not been enough to make up for a drop in overseas demand, says the manufacturers\u2019 organisation EEF. Those manufacturers making mechanical equipment have been particularly hard hit as waning orders from China coincide with flagging demand from the oil and gas sector, itself hit by a plunging oil price.The trade group is halving its growth forecast for manufacturing this year to 0.7% from 1.5%, citing a \u201crollercoaster of risks\u201d that include renewed eurozone tensions and a slowdown in emerging markets, particularly China. EEF chief economist Lee Hopley said that while the overall UK economy looked set for \u201csolid\u201d growth this year, manufacturers were contending with a lower oil price, fragile eurozone growth, and now the blow to global investor confidence from turmoil in China.\u201cWhile UK data has continued to point to solid growth, UK manufacturing is having to contend with a rollercoaster of risks from the rest of the world and the white-knuckle ride is starting to take its toll,\u201d she said.\u201cWe\u2019ve seen the future of the eurozone on the line once again, turbulence and uncertainty over China and Greece and, of course, oil and gas are still a concern. Against this backdrop, it\u2019s no surprise that confidence is faltering and UK manufacturers are feeling less optimistic about their growth prospects for next year.\u201dThe gloomier outlook for manufacturing this year reflects signs of falling production and orders in EEF\u2019s latest survey of businesses, as well as a string of other weak indicators in the sector, including official figures showing it contracted in the second quarter. For the first time in more than two years, there were more companies reporting a drop in output than a rise, according to the EEF survey, published with law firm DLA Piper.The poll of 442 manufacturers showed that export orders fell to a six-year low in the past three months. Domestic orders were also down, hurt largely by weakness at those manufacturers reliant on the oil and gas sector.Looking ahead, more than a third of companies reported signs of improving demand in Europe \u2013 the UK\u2019s biggest export market \u2013 but the proportion of companies eyeing growth opportunities in Asia had fallen.The survey suggested there were still more companies planning to raise investment and employment rather than cut them, but only by a slim margin. Hopley said the extent of any further fallout from China\u2019s slowdown would be key for both employment and investment in the months ahead.\u201cIf there isn\u2019t something more persistent happening in China at the moment, companies feel they will wash through it. But clearly we are on amber alert for these [employment and investment] balances in the next quarter,\u201d she said.Economists point out China\u2019s slowdown has mixed effects on the UK. The downward pressure on oil prices is keeping inflation low and should boost household budgets. Meanwhile, the market turmoil could prompt the Bank of England to keep interest rates at their record low for longer.But for exporters, waning demand is another blow, on top of a stronger pound, that makes UK goods more expensive to overseas buyers. Manufacturers say that while direct UK exports to China are relatively small, it has been a growing market in recent years. China is the largest foreign market for British cars.The EEF has analysed what would happen to the UK economy if there was a 12% drop in China\u2019s imports, which is equivalent to the decline during the Asian financial crisis in the late 1990s. Such a fall would weigh on UK GDP, manufacturing output and, most notably, on manufactured exports, the group found, using its economic model.A separate report on the outlook for small businesses also flags deteriorating confidence, but points to domestic pressures. The Federation of Small Businesses says its members are more cautious after George Osborne\u2019s summer budget announced changes including taxes on dividends and a \u201cnational living wage\u201d.\u201cThe reaction to these changes is reflected in the evidence we present today, which shows confidence levels amongst members cooling markedly,\u201d said FSB national chairman John Allan.The group\u2019s survey of 1,580 small businesses showed they continued to hire new workers over the last three months, but at a slower rate than the previous quarter. Nearly six-in-10 small businesses, or 58.7%, plan to grow in the next 12 months, down from 65.3% in a poll three months ago.The poll also pointed to improving access to finance, a pickup in productivity and modest growth in exports.", "tags": ["Manufacturing sector", "Business", "Economics", "Economic growth (GDP)", "China", "Stock markets", "UK news", "Chinese economy"], "title": "UK manufacturing hit by turmoil in China"},{"date": "2015-09-07T21:20:31Z", "country": "china", "content": "Uber has raised $1.2bn for its expansion into China, according to an interview with its chief executive, Travis Kalanick, published by Sina, a Chinese-language website.  Related: Uber blocked on biggest Chinese messaging app Reports were confirmed by TechCrunch. Uber later confirmed to the Guardian that the funding round is unfinished and that it expects additional investments in the coming days and weeks.UberChina is expected to be valued at $8bn, according to reports. The company already operates in 11 Chinese cities, but would like to see that number increase by 50 in a year. In a letter obtained by the Financial Times in June, Kalanick told investors that Uber\u2019s Chinese riders were completing almost a million trips a day.\u201cThis kind of growth is remarkable and unprecedented. To put it frankly, China represents one of the largest untapped opportunities for Uber, potentially larger than the US,\u201d he wrote.\u201cSuccess in China, however, takes commitment over the long haul and a strong will, coupled with a unique understanding of the differences in China.\u201dTo accomplish this, Kalanick said, the company would build out local teams and partnerships. Under the heading \u201cChina Expansion\u201d, one Uber careers web page advertises \u201clauncher\u201d jobs. \u201cAs part of an elite team of Launchers charged with expanding our presence in new markets across the globe, you will play a large, direct role in allowing us to realize that vision,\u201d the page reads. \u201cAt base, this job entails being dropped into a city or country where Uber has zero brand and physical presence, quickly figuring out who and what make that city run, and then building a new business from scratch \u2013 in a matter of weeks \u2013 which sets Uber up for long-term success.\u201dIn the letter obtained by the FT, Kalanick wrote that starting on 22 June, UberChina would formally launch a fundraising process and would \u201cwelcome participation from our existing investor base\u201d.Expansion into China has not been smooth for Uber. In May, police visited the company\u2019s offices in Chengdu and Guangzhou. Uber said these were \u201croutine\u201d visits, but in August five drivers were arrested in Hong Kong for \u201cillegal use of vehicles for hire\u201d. They were later released on bail.", "tags": ["Uber", "Technology", "China", "World news"], "title": "Uber raises $1.2bn for China expansion \u2013 reports"},{"date": "2015-09-23T03:14:18Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has ticked off Malcolm Turnbull over his comments on the South China Sea, saying Australia should maintain a neutral position over the contested area.\u201cWe hope that Australia will stay committed to not taking sides on issues concerning disputes over sovereignty,\u201d foreign ministry spokesman Hong Lei told reporters in Beijing.On Monday the new prime minister said island-building in the disputed area was \u201cpushing the envelope\u201d of acceptable behaviour. Related: What\u2019s behind Beijing\u2019s drive to control the South China Sea? | Howard W French \u201cThe pushing the envelope in the South China Sea has had the consequence of exactly the reverse consequence of what China would seek to achieve,\u201d Turnbull told the ABC on Monday.Hong said the situation in the South China Sea was generally stable, and Beijing was having bilateral talks with nations concerned to resolve the disputes, as well as working with Asean nations to safeguard peace and stability in the area.On Tuesday the Philippine president, Benigno Aquino, rejected China\u2019s calls for a bilateral dialogue, saying that any talks should involve other countries that claim parts of the area such as Brunei, Malaysia, Vietnam and Taiwan.China, Vietnam and Taiwan claim all 200 or so of the Spratlys land features in the South China Sea, while Brunei, the Philippines and Malaysia claim parts of them.On Monday Turnbull said China\u2019s territorial ambitions in the South China Sea had been one of the more counterproductive foreign policies the Asian country had ever undertaken.\u201cWhat the island construction and all of the activity in the South China Sea has done has resulted in the smaller countries surrounding that area turning to the US even more than they did before,\u201d he said.Australia\u2019s new defence minister, Marise Payne, backed Turnbull\u2019s comments.\u201cHis remarks were very considered \u2013 I would have no difference with those remarks,\u201d she said on Tuesday.A Pentagon report released in August said China has reclaimed more than 1,174 hectares of land from the South China Sea in less than two years in its intensive island-building campaign.", "tags": ["Asia Pacific", "China", "Malcolm Turnbull", "Australian politics", "Philippines", "Australia news"], "title": "China admonishes Malcolm Turnbull on South China Sea comments"},{"date": "2015-08-26T12:36:08Z", "country": "china", "content": "Hollywood studio Warner Bros is set to move into China in a big way, as reports emerge of talks between the US film producers and China Media Capital, a state-backed investment fund, to create a joint venture that will make Chinese-language films aimed at the Chinese domestic market.This comes in the wake of rapidly increasing takings at the Chinese box office \u2013 according to the Wall Street Journal, the total for 2015 is up 43% on the year before, at $4.3bn (\u00a32.75bn). Four out of the top 10 films in China in 2015 are Hollywood imports \u2013 led by Fast and Furious 7 ($379.1m/\u00a3243m) \u2013 but the remaining six are Chinese in origin, with titles including Monster Hunt, Jian Bing Man and The Man From Macau 2.It would appear to be this latter category of film that Warner Bros is targeting, and with a rigid quota of 34 films per year that Hollywood is allowed to export to China and earn receipts from, the joint venture may prove a way to circumvent the tough government rules.The Warner Bros deal does not represent Hollywood\u2019s first move in this area: in 2012, DreamWorks unveiled a joint venture to produce Chinese-language films in Shanghai and \u201cco-operate\u201d on the production of Kung Fu Panda 3, due for release in 2016. Reports suggest that Warner Bros will contribute $50m (\u00a332m) to the new joint venture. However, it is not known how the current turmoil in China\u2019s financial markets may affect its progress.", "tags": ["Film", "Warner Bros", "Film industry", "China", "Asia Pacific", "Business", "Culture", "World news"], "title": "Warner Bros moves into China"},{"date": "2015-07-09T17:07:05Z", "country": "china", "content": "SuperGroup is stepping into China via a joint venture deal with Trendy International Group, a casual fashion company backed by LVMH, the luxury goods house that owns Louis Vuitton and C\u00e9line.The company behind the fashion brand Superdry said it would invest \u00a39m in the deal with TIG, which has around 3,000 stores across China including outlets for Italian brand Miss Sixty as well as its own labels Ochirly, Five Plus and Trendiano.SuperGroup said it was entering the new market in a \u201ccontrolled and managed way\u201d and would not open the first stores until the middle of next year.\u201cChina is a very exciting market and forecast to overtake the US as the largest apparel and footwear market in the world,\u201d it said.\u201cCustomer tastes are evolving from luxury brands to brands influenced by pop culture and we believe that the Superdry brand, with the right product, pricing model and infrastructure, is well positioned to be successful.\u201dThe move into China comes after SuperGroup bought back exclusive rights to distribute the Superdry brand in the US, Canada and Mexico for \u00a322.3m, and hired Luther and The Wire actor Idris Elba to help relaunch its brand across the Atlantic.The deal ended a 30-year licence with a US partner which had delivered just 15 stores and last year made a \u00a35m loss on \u00a320m of sales. SuperGroup also plans to expand in Europe, including Germany and Austria.Kate Calvert, an analyst at Investec, welcomed the move saying the company not only had the potential to double its UK and European-owned store base but now had longer-term growth prospects in the US and China.SuperGroup also revealed a 2% rise in underlying pretax profits to \u00a363.2m in the year to 25 April. Sales rose 12.9% to \u00a3486.6m.The company said trading in its new financial year had started well with like-for-like retail sales up 20.3% in the first 10 weeks, although that was set against a weak trading period the year before.", "tags": ["SuperGroup", "Business", "Retail industry"], "title": "SuperGroup embarks on China expansion"},{"date": "2015-07-02T04:22:23Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has almost finished construction of a 3,000m runway on the disputed Spratly islands in the South China Sea, satellite images have shown.The airstrip \u2013 the first by China on the islands it claims in the area \u2013 has been paved and taxiways have been built, according to the images published by the Asia Maritime Transparency Initiative (AMTI).\u201cTwo helipads, up to 10 satellite communications antennas, and one possible radar tower are also visible,\u201d said the Washington-based group, adding that two lighthouses and one cement plant have also been built on the island.The runway is large enough for heavy military transport planes and fighters. Images taken in April showed it only a third complete, demonstrating that it has since been constructed at a rapid rate.Fiery Cross Reef is one of several small islands in the South China Sea that China has been reclaiming, using dredger barges which scoop up sand and coral and pile it on to the reef.Although lying hundreds of miles south of its shores, China claims most of the South China Sea. The Philippines, Vietnam, Malaysia, Brunei and Taiwan also have overlapping claims.The United States and Japan also oppose China\u2019s reclamation of islands and environmentalists argue it destroys delicate reef ecology. The area is a busy shipping route connecting to the Strait of Malacca and the Pacific and is believed to have rich oil and gas deposits. The South China Sea is a key sea route for roughly \u00a33.17tn in trade.Beijing says the island outposts will serve maritime search and rescue missions, disaster relief, environmental protection as well as undefined military purposes.China\u2019s top diplomat, state councillor Yang Jiechi, said last week that \u201cnavigation freedom in the South China Sea is guaranteed\u201d.\u201cWe do believe that there will not be any issue or problem with navigational freedom in future. We hope the US can be impartial and objective to serve peace and stability in this region,\u201d he said after talks in Washington.Bonnie Glaser, a senior adviser for the Center for Strategic & International Studies, said that the beginning of the typhoon season means there could be a lull in activity over the coming month.She said that an upcoming visit by China\u2019s President Xi Jinping to the US in September could also dampen the drive by Beijing to militarise the islands. Related: Japan joins with former foes to flex its muscles as it eyes China's rise \u201cThat said, I do think that activity will again pick up again, perhaps in the fall. The Chinese are going to continue with construction, militarisation, but what we have over the summer is at least an opportunity for more dialogue,\u201d she said.Philippines and Vietnamese ships in the South China Sea report they have increasingly been harassed by Chinese vessels. In May, a Chinese fishing vessel rammed and sank a Vietnamese fishing boat.Images published by AMTI also showed that China had added military facilities to the South Johnson Reef. A 3,000 square-metre port and two loading stations have been built and there are two helipads on the reef and up to three satellite communications antennas, AMTI said.It said a large, multi-level military facility is in the centre of the reef, with two possible radar towers under construction. \u201cUp to six security and surveillance towers being built with four possible weapons towers also under construction,\u201d it noted.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Philippines"], "title": "Satellite images Chinese-built runway artificial island finished"},{"date": "2015-09-06T23:21:06Z", "country": "china", "content": "The economic downturn in China has compounded pressures on UK manufacturers and hit their output and exports, a leading business group will warn on Monday as it slashes its outlook for the sector.Sales to the domestic consumer market and booming car production have not been enough to make up for a drop in overseas demand, says the manufacturers\u2019 organisation EEF. Those manufacturers making mechanical equipment have been particularly hard hit as waning orders from China coincide with flagging demand from the oil and gas sector, itself hit by a plunging oil price.The trade group is halving its growth forecast for manufacturing this year to 0.7% from 1.5%, citing a \u201crollercoaster of risks\u201d that include renewed eurozone tensions and a slowdown in emerging markets, particularly China. EEF chief economist Lee Hopley said that while the overall UK economy looked set for \u201csolid\u201d growth this year, manufacturers were contending with a lower oil price, fragile eurozone growth, and now the blow to global investor confidence from turmoil in China.\u201cWhile UK data has continued to point to solid growth, UK manufacturing is having to contend with a rollercoaster of risks from the rest of the world and the white-knuckle ride is starting to take its toll,\u201d she said.\u201cWe\u2019ve seen the future of the eurozone on the line once again, turbulence and uncertainty over China and Greece and, of course, oil and gas are still a concern. Against this backdrop, it\u2019s no surprise that confidence is faltering and UK manufacturers are feeling less optimistic about their growth prospects for next year.\u201dThe gloomier outlook for manufacturing this year reflects signs of falling production and orders in EEF\u2019s latest survey of businesses, as well as a string of other weak indicators in the sector, including official figures showing it contracted in the second quarter. For the first time in more than two years, there were more companies reporting a drop in output than a rise, according to the EEF survey, published with law firm DLA Piper.The poll of 442 manufacturers showed that export orders fell to a six-year low in the past three months. Domestic orders were also down, hurt largely by weakness at those manufacturers reliant on the oil and gas sector.Looking ahead, more than a third of companies reported signs of improving demand in Europe \u2013 the UK\u2019s biggest export market \u2013 but the proportion of companies eyeing growth opportunities in Asia had fallen.The survey suggested there were still more companies planning to raise investment and employment rather than cut them, but only by a slim margin. Hopley said the extent of any further fallout from China\u2019s slowdown would be key for both employment and investment in the months ahead.\u201cIf there isn\u2019t something more persistent happening in China at the moment, companies feel they will wash through it. But clearly we are on amber alert for these [employment and investment] balances in the next quarter,\u201d she said.Economists point out China\u2019s slowdown has mixed effects on the UK. The downward pressure on oil prices is keeping inflation low and should boost household budgets. Meanwhile, the market turmoil could prompt the Bank of England to keep interest rates at their record low for longer.But for exporters, waning demand is another blow, on top of a stronger pound, that makes UK goods more expensive to overseas buyers. Manufacturers say that while direct UK exports to China are relatively small, it has been a growing market in recent years. China is the largest foreign market for British cars.The EEF has analysed what would happen to the UK economy if there was a 12% drop in China\u2019s imports, which is equivalent to the decline during the Asian financial crisis in the late 1990s. Such a fall would weigh on UK GDP, manufacturing output and, most notably, on manufactured exports, the group found, using its economic model.A separate report on the outlook for small businesses also flags deteriorating confidence, but points to domestic pressures. The Federation of Small Businesses says its members are more cautious after George Osborne\u2019s summer budget announced changes including taxes on dividends and a \u201cnational living wage\u201d.\u201cThe reaction to these changes is reflected in the evidence we present today, which shows confidence levels amongst members cooling markedly,\u201d said FSB national chairman John Allan.The group\u2019s survey of 1,580 small businesses showed they continued to hire new workers over the last three months, but at a slower rate than the previous quarter. Nearly six-in-10 small businesses, or 58.7%, plan to grow in the next 12 months, down from 65.3% in a poll three months ago.The poll also pointed to improving access to finance, a pickup in productivity and modest growth in exports.", "tags": ["Manufacturing sector", "Business", "Economics", "Economic growth (GDP)", "China", "Stock markets", "UK news", "Chinese economy"], "title": "UK manufacturing hit by turmoil in China"},{"date": "2015-09-07T21:20:31Z", "country": "china", "content": "Uber has raised $1.2bn for its expansion into China, according to an interview with its chief executive, Travis Kalanick, published by Sina, a Chinese-language website.  Related: Uber blocked on biggest Chinese messaging app Reports were confirmed by TechCrunch. Uber later confirmed to the Guardian that the funding round is unfinished and that it expects additional investments in the coming days and weeks.UberChina is expected to be valued at $8bn, according to reports. The company already operates in 11 Chinese cities, but would like to see that number increase by 50 in a year. In a letter obtained by the Financial Times in June, Kalanick told investors that Uber\u2019s Chinese riders were completing almost a million trips a day.\u201cThis kind of growth is remarkable and unprecedented. To put it frankly, China represents one of the largest untapped opportunities for Uber, potentially larger than the US,\u201d he wrote.\u201cSuccess in China, however, takes commitment over the long haul and a strong will, coupled with a unique understanding of the differences in China.\u201dTo accomplish this, Kalanick said, the company would build out local teams and partnerships. Under the heading \u201cChina Expansion\u201d, one Uber careers web page advertises \u201clauncher\u201d jobs. \u201cAs part of an elite team of Launchers charged with expanding our presence in new markets across the globe, you will play a large, direct role in allowing us to realize that vision,\u201d the page reads. \u201cAt base, this job entails being dropped into a city or country where Uber has zero brand and physical presence, quickly figuring out who and what make that city run, and then building a new business from scratch \u2013 in a matter of weeks \u2013 which sets Uber up for long-term success.\u201dIn the letter obtained by the FT, Kalanick wrote that starting on 22 June, UberChina would formally launch a fundraising process and would \u201cwelcome participation from our existing investor base\u201d.Expansion into China has not been smooth for Uber. In May, police visited the company\u2019s offices in Chengdu and Guangzhou. Uber said these were \u201croutine\u201d visits, but in August five drivers were arrested in Hong Kong for \u201cillegal use of vehicles for hire\u201d. They were later released on bail.", "tags": ["Uber", "Technology", "China", "World news"], "title": "Uber raises $1.2bn for China expansion \u2013 reports"},{"date": "2015-07-29T15:03:24Z", "country": "china", "content": "The GlaxoSmithKline CEO, Sir Andrew Witty, said the Chinese drug market has slowed down dramatically over the past year but insisted that the drugmaker\u2019s own business there is stabilising, as it unveiled second-quarter results that beat City expectations thanks to strong sales of new HIV drugs.Witty also flagged up 40 new drugs and vaccines that are in mid- to late-stage development, half of which are expected to be on the market or filed for regulatory approval by 2020. He highlighted a new shingles vaccine, as well as treatments for chronic lung disease, severe asthma, anaemia and heart disease.He said the company\u2019s research and development day in November \u2013 the first since 2003 \u2013 will be a \u201ckey moment\u201d, when it will update investors about its new medicines. The turmoil in China\u2019s stock markets in recent weeks has raised concerns over the state of the world\u2019s second-largest economy, which has been slowing.Witty said: \u201cThere is no doubt that we are seeing that the overall market place in China slowed quite dramatically over the last year or so. For our own business, we have seen some pretty good signs of stabilisation.\u201d Related: GlaxoSmithKline to pay \u00a3297m fine over China bribery network GSK\u2019s sales in China fell 14% in the latest quarter, but he said this reflected price reductions, which should boost sales volumes in coming months, as well as disposals of some products. He added: \u201cOverall, we are feeling pretty good about where we are in China. We are obviously glad to have put behind us the events of the last year or so and we feel that we have a very robust approach to how we now go forward in China, which is very much in step with what the authorities of China want to see.\u201dGSK has come through a damaging corruption scandal in China, for which it paid a \u00a3300m fine to the government in Beijing. It is still being investigated by the UK Serious Fraud Office and the US Department of Justice, which are both looking into allegations of bribery in China and other countries.Witty said GSK had cleaned up its act, becoming the \u201cfirst and only company\u201d to commit to stopping payments to doctors to speak on its behalf. This has been implemented in China and the UK and is being rolled out globally. GSK is also the first company to stop bonus payments tied to prescriptions to sales representatives around the world. Other drugmakers are expected to follow suit.Britain\u2019s biggest pharmaceutical company reported sales of \u00a35.9bn in the second quarter, up 7% at constant exchange rates. Core operating profit fell 3% to \u00a31.35bn. The group said the \u201cstandout performance\u201d came from its new HIV drugs, Tivicay and Triumeq, which vindicated its decision in May to hold on to its HIV venture, after plans to spin it off.It is the first full quarter since GSK sold its cancer business to Novartis and bought the Swiss group\u2019s vaccines division, while also boosting its consumer health business through a joint venture. But it will take time for the business revamp to pay off, with another fall in core earnings per share expected this year, before a return to double-digit growth next year. GSK is battling sales declines for its ageing blockbuster lung treatment Advair/Seretide.The drugmaker\u2019s malaria vaccine is the world\u2019s first and took 30 years to develop. It received the green light from European regulators last week. Witty said it could take between 12-18 months before it is rolled out in sub-Saharan Africa, as it still needs approval from the World Health Organisation and national governments. The shot will be sold on a not-for-profit basis, at a few dollars per dose. Related: First malaria vaccine given green light by European regulators Ketan Patel, a senior investment analyst at EdenTree Investment Management, said: \u201cInvestors in GlaxoSmithKline will have been buoyed by the recent pipeline success, with the approval of malarial vaccine Mosquirix. However, the company has tested the patience of long-term investors over the past few years. \u201cThe bribery scandal in China led to a large fine, declining returns on capital and faltering sales in its respiratory franchise in the US, and the impact on share price performance has been marked.\u201d Patel added, however, that the company has the healthiest pipeline in the global pharmaceutical sector with more than 250 products. Citi analyst Andrew Baum said: \u201cThe weak performance of China, US Breo and Anoro and EU Advair [all lung drugs] suggested respite is not imminent. GSK\u2019s pipeline is undervalued but the most interesting compounds remain in the early stages of development.\u201d", "tags": ["GlaxoSmithKline", "Business", "Pharmaceuticals industry", "Drugs", "Science", "UK news", "China", "Vaccines and immunisation", "Health", "Society", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "GlaxoSmithKline CEO: business stabilising despite China slowdown"},{"date": "2015-09-23T03:14:18Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has ticked off Malcolm Turnbull over his comments on the South China Sea, saying Australia should maintain a neutral position over the contested area.\u201cWe hope that Australia will stay committed to not taking sides on issues concerning disputes over sovereignty,\u201d foreign ministry spokesman Hong Lei told reporters in Beijing.On Monday the new prime minister said island-building in the disputed area was \u201cpushing the envelope\u201d of acceptable behaviour. Related: What\u2019s behind Beijing\u2019s drive to control the South China Sea? | Howard W French \u201cThe pushing the envelope in the South China Sea has had the consequence of exactly the reverse consequence of what China would seek to achieve,\u201d Turnbull told the ABC on Monday.Hong said the situation in the South China Sea was generally stable, and Beijing was having bilateral talks with nations concerned to resolve the disputes, as well as working with Asean nations to safeguard peace and stability in the area.On Tuesday the Philippine president, Benigno Aquino, rejected China\u2019s calls for a bilateral dialogue, saying that any talks should involve other countries that claim parts of the area such as Brunei, Malaysia, Vietnam and Taiwan.China, Vietnam and Taiwan claim all 200 or so of the Spratlys land features in the South China Sea, while Brunei, the Philippines and Malaysia claim parts of them.On Monday Turnbull said China\u2019s territorial ambitions in the South China Sea had been one of the more counterproductive foreign policies the Asian country had ever undertaken.\u201cWhat the island construction and all of the activity in the South China Sea has done has resulted in the smaller countries surrounding that area turning to the US even more than they did before,\u201d he said.Australia\u2019s new defence minister, Marise Payne, backed Turnbull\u2019s comments.\u201cHis remarks were very considered \u2013 I would have no difference with those remarks,\u201d she said on Tuesday.A Pentagon report released in August said China has reclaimed more than 1,174 hectares of land from the South China Sea in less than two years in its intensive island-building campaign.", "tags": ["Asia Pacific", "China", "Malcolm Turnbull", "Australian politics", "Philippines", "Australia news"], "title": "China admonishes Malcolm Turnbull on South China Sea comments"},{"date": "2015-08-26T12:36:08Z", "country": "china", "content": "Hollywood studio Warner Bros is set to move into China in a big way, as reports emerge of talks between the US film producers and China Media Capital, a state-backed investment fund, to create a joint venture that will make Chinese-language films aimed at the Chinese domestic market.This comes in the wake of rapidly increasing takings at the Chinese box office \u2013 according to the Wall Street Journal, the total for 2015 is up 43% on the year before, at $4.3bn (\u00a32.75bn). Four out of the top 10 films in China in 2015 are Hollywood imports \u2013 led by Fast and Furious 7 ($379.1m/\u00a3243m) \u2013 but the remaining six are Chinese in origin, with titles including Monster Hunt, Jian Bing Man and The Man From Macau 2.It would appear to be this latter category of film that Warner Bros is targeting, and with a rigid quota of 34 films per year that Hollywood is allowed to export to China and earn receipts from, the joint venture may prove a way to circumvent the tough government rules.The Warner Bros deal does not represent Hollywood\u2019s first move in this area: in 2012, DreamWorks unveiled a joint venture to produce Chinese-language films in Shanghai and \u201cco-operate\u201d on the production of Kung Fu Panda 3, due for release in 2016. Reports suggest that Warner Bros will contribute $50m (\u00a332m) to the new joint venture. However, it is not known how the current turmoil in China\u2019s financial markets may affect its progress.", "tags": ["Film", "Warner Bros", "Film industry", "China", "Asia Pacific", "Business", "Culture", "World news"], "title": "Warner Bros moves into China"},{"date": "2015-07-09T17:07:05Z", "country": "china", "content": "SuperGroup is stepping into China via a joint venture deal with Trendy International Group, a casual fashion company backed by LVMH, the luxury goods house that owns Louis Vuitton and C\u00e9line.The company behind the fashion brand Superdry said it would invest \u00a39m in the deal with TIG, which has around 3,000 stores across China including outlets for Italian brand Miss Sixty as well as its own labels Ochirly, Five Plus and Trendiano.SuperGroup said it was entering the new market in a \u201ccontrolled and managed way\u201d and would not open the first stores until the middle of next year.\u201cChina is a very exciting market and forecast to overtake the US as the largest apparel and footwear market in the world,\u201d it said.\u201cCustomer tastes are evolving from luxury brands to brands influenced by pop culture and we believe that the Superdry brand, with the right product, pricing model and infrastructure, is well positioned to be successful.\u201dThe move into China comes after SuperGroup bought back exclusive rights to distribute the Superdry brand in the US, Canada and Mexico for \u00a322.3m, and hired Luther and The Wire actor Idris Elba to help relaunch its brand across the Atlantic.The deal ended a 30-year licence with a US partner which had delivered just 15 stores and last year made a \u00a35m loss on \u00a320m of sales. SuperGroup also plans to expand in Europe, including Germany and Austria.Kate Calvert, an analyst at Investec, welcomed the move saying the company not only had the potential to double its UK and European-owned store base but now had longer-term growth prospects in the US and China.SuperGroup also revealed a 2% rise in underlying pretax profits to \u00a363.2m in the year to 25 April. Sales rose 12.9% to \u00a3486.6m.The company said trading in its new financial year had started well with like-for-like retail sales up 20.3% in the first 10 weeks, although that was set against a weak trading period the year before.", "tags": ["SuperGroup", "Business", "Retail industry"], "title": "SuperGroup embarks on China expansion"},{"date": "2015-07-02T04:22:23Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has almost finished construction of a 3,000m runway on the disputed Spratly islands in the South China Sea, satellite images have shown.The airstrip \u2013 the first by China on the islands it claims in the area \u2013 has been paved and taxiways have been built, according to the images published by the Asia Maritime Transparency Initiative (AMTI).\u201cTwo helipads, up to 10 satellite communications antennas, and one possible radar tower are also visible,\u201d said the Washington-based group, adding that two lighthouses and one cement plant have also been built on the island.The runway is large enough for heavy military transport planes and fighters. Images taken in April showed it only a third complete, demonstrating that it has since been constructed at a rapid rate.Fiery Cross Reef is one of several small islands in the South China Sea that China has been reclaiming, using dredger barges which scoop up sand and coral and pile it on to the reef.Although lying hundreds of miles south of its shores, China claims most of the South China Sea. The Philippines, Vietnam, Malaysia, Brunei and Taiwan also have overlapping claims.The United States and Japan also oppose China\u2019s reclamation of islands and environmentalists argue it destroys delicate reef ecology. The area is a busy shipping route connecting to the Strait of Malacca and the Pacific and is believed to have rich oil and gas deposits. The South China Sea is a key sea route for roughly \u00a33.17tn in trade.Beijing says the island outposts will serve maritime search and rescue missions, disaster relief, environmental protection as well as undefined military purposes.China\u2019s top diplomat, state councillor Yang Jiechi, said last week that \u201cnavigation freedom in the South China Sea is guaranteed\u201d.\u201cWe do believe that there will not be any issue or problem with navigational freedom in future. We hope the US can be impartial and objective to serve peace and stability in this region,\u201d he said after talks in Washington.Bonnie Glaser, a senior adviser for the Center for Strategic & International Studies, said that the beginning of the typhoon season means there could be a lull in activity over the coming month.She said that an upcoming visit by China\u2019s President Xi Jinping to the US in September could also dampen the drive by Beijing to militarise the islands. Related: Japan joins with former foes to flex its muscles as it eyes China's rise \u201cThat said, I do think that activity will again pick up again, perhaps in the fall. The Chinese are going to continue with construction, militarisation, but what we have over the summer is at least an opportunity for more dialogue,\u201d she said.Philippines and Vietnamese ships in the South China Sea report they have increasingly been harassed by Chinese vessels. In May, a Chinese fishing vessel rammed and sank a Vietnamese fishing boat.Images published by AMTI also showed that China had added military facilities to the South Johnson Reef. A 3,000 square-metre port and two loading stations have been built and there are two helipads on the reef and up to three satellite communications antennas, AMTI said.It said a large, multi-level military facility is in the centre of the reef, with two possible radar towers under construction. \u201cUp to six security and surveillance towers being built with four possible weapons towers also under construction,\u201d it noted.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Philippines"], "title": "Satellite images Chinese-built runway artificial island finished"},{"date": "2015-09-06T23:21:06Z", "country": "china", "content": "The economic downturn in China has compounded pressures on UK manufacturers and hit their output and exports, a leading business group will warn on Monday as it slashes its outlook for the sector.Sales to the domestic consumer market and booming car production have not been enough to make up for a drop in overseas demand, says the manufacturers\u2019 organisation EEF. Those manufacturers making mechanical equipment have been particularly hard hit as waning orders from China coincide with flagging demand from the oil and gas sector, itself hit by a plunging oil price.The trade group is halving its growth forecast for manufacturing this year to 0.7% from 1.5%, citing a \u201crollercoaster of risks\u201d that include renewed eurozone tensions and a slowdown in emerging markets, particularly China. EEF chief economist Lee Hopley said that while the overall UK economy looked set for \u201csolid\u201d growth this year, manufacturers were contending with a lower oil price, fragile eurozone growth, and now the blow to global investor confidence from turmoil in China.\u201cWhile UK data has continued to point to solid growth, UK manufacturing is having to contend with a rollercoaster of risks from the rest of the world and the white-knuckle ride is starting to take its toll,\u201d she said.\u201cWe\u2019ve seen the future of the eurozone on the line once again, turbulence and uncertainty over China and Greece and, of course, oil and gas are still a concern. Against this backdrop, it\u2019s no surprise that confidence is faltering and UK manufacturers are feeling less optimistic about their growth prospects for next year.\u201dThe gloomier outlook for manufacturing this year reflects signs of falling production and orders in EEF\u2019s latest survey of businesses, as well as a string of other weak indicators in the sector, including official figures showing it contracted in the second quarter. For the first time in more than two years, there were more companies reporting a drop in output than a rise, according to the EEF survey, published with law firm DLA Piper.The poll of 442 manufacturers showed that export orders fell to a six-year low in the past three months. Domestic orders were also down, hurt largely by weakness at those manufacturers reliant on the oil and gas sector.Looking ahead, more than a third of companies reported signs of improving demand in Europe \u2013 the UK\u2019s biggest export market \u2013 but the proportion of companies eyeing growth opportunities in Asia had fallen.The survey suggested there were still more companies planning to raise investment and employment rather than cut them, but only by a slim margin. Hopley said the extent of any further fallout from China\u2019s slowdown would be key for both employment and investment in the months ahead.\u201cIf there isn\u2019t something more persistent happening in China at the moment, companies feel they will wash through it. But clearly we are on amber alert for these [employment and investment] balances in the next quarter,\u201d she said.Economists point out China\u2019s slowdown has mixed effects on the UK. The downward pressure on oil prices is keeping inflation low and should boost household budgets. Meanwhile, the market turmoil could prompt the Bank of England to keep interest rates at their record low for longer.But for exporters, waning demand is another blow, on top of a stronger pound, that makes UK goods more expensive to overseas buyers. Manufacturers say that while direct UK exports to China are relatively small, it has been a growing market in recent years. China is the largest foreign market for British cars.The EEF has analysed what would happen to the UK economy if there was a 12% drop in China\u2019s imports, which is equivalent to the decline during the Asian financial crisis in the late 1990s. Such a fall would weigh on UK GDP, manufacturing output and, most notably, on manufactured exports, the group found, using its economic model.A separate report on the outlook for small businesses also flags deteriorating confidence, but points to domestic pressures. The Federation of Small Businesses says its members are more cautious after George Osborne\u2019s summer budget announced changes including taxes on dividends and a \u201cnational living wage\u201d.\u201cThe reaction to these changes is reflected in the evidence we present today, which shows confidence levels amongst members cooling markedly,\u201d said FSB national chairman John Allan.The group\u2019s survey of 1,580 small businesses showed they continued to hire new workers over the last three months, but at a slower rate than the previous quarter. Nearly six-in-10 small businesses, or 58.7%, plan to grow in the next 12 months, down from 65.3% in a poll three months ago.The poll also pointed to improving access to finance, a pickup in productivity and modest growth in exports.", "tags": ["Manufacturing sector", "Business", "Economics", "Economic growth (GDP)", "China", "Stock markets", "UK news", "Chinese economy"], "title": "UK manufacturing hit by turmoil in China"},{"date": "2015-09-07T21:20:31Z", "country": "china", "content": "Uber has raised $1.2bn for its expansion into China, according to an interview with its chief executive, Travis Kalanick, published by Sina, a Chinese-language website.  Related: Uber blocked on biggest Chinese messaging app Reports were confirmed by TechCrunch. Uber later confirmed to the Guardian that the funding round is unfinished and that it expects additional investments in the coming days and weeks.UberChina is expected to be valued at $8bn, according to reports. The company already operates in 11 Chinese cities, but would like to see that number increase by 50 in a year. In a letter obtained by the Financial Times in June, Kalanick told investors that Uber\u2019s Chinese riders were completing almost a million trips a day.\u201cThis kind of growth is remarkable and unprecedented. To put it frankly, China represents one of the largest untapped opportunities for Uber, potentially larger than the US,\u201d he wrote.\u201cSuccess in China, however, takes commitment over the long haul and a strong will, coupled with a unique understanding of the differences in China.\u201dTo accomplish this, Kalanick said, the company would build out local teams and partnerships. Under the heading \u201cChina Expansion\u201d, one Uber careers web page advertises \u201clauncher\u201d jobs. \u201cAs part of an elite team of Launchers charged with expanding our presence in new markets across the globe, you will play a large, direct role in allowing us to realize that vision,\u201d the page reads. \u201cAt base, this job entails being dropped into a city or country where Uber has zero brand and physical presence, quickly figuring out who and what make that city run, and then building a new business from scratch \u2013 in a matter of weeks \u2013 which sets Uber up for long-term success.\u201dIn the letter obtained by the FT, Kalanick wrote that starting on 22 June, UberChina would formally launch a fundraising process and would \u201cwelcome participation from our existing investor base\u201d.Expansion into China has not been smooth for Uber. In May, police visited the company\u2019s offices in Chengdu and Guangzhou. Uber said these were \u201croutine\u201d visits, but in August five drivers were arrested in Hong Kong for \u201cillegal use of vehicles for hire\u201d. They were later released on bail.", "tags": ["Uber", "Technology", "China", "World news"], "title": "Uber raises $1.2bn for China expansion \u2013 reports"},{"date": "2015-07-29T15:03:24Z", "country": "china", "content": "The GlaxoSmithKline CEO, Sir Andrew Witty, said the Chinese drug market has slowed down dramatically over the past year but insisted that the drugmaker\u2019s own business there is stabilising, as it unveiled second-quarter results that beat City expectations thanks to strong sales of new HIV drugs.Witty also flagged up 40 new drugs and vaccines that are in mid- to late-stage development, half of which are expected to be on the market or filed for regulatory approval by 2020. He highlighted a new shingles vaccine, as well as treatments for chronic lung disease, severe asthma, anaemia and heart disease.He said the company\u2019s research and development day in November \u2013 the first since 2003 \u2013 will be a \u201ckey moment\u201d, when it will update investors about its new medicines. The turmoil in China\u2019s stock markets in recent weeks has raised concerns over the state of the world\u2019s second-largest economy, which has been slowing.Witty said: \u201cThere is no doubt that we are seeing that the overall market place in China slowed quite dramatically over the last year or so. For our own business, we have seen some pretty good signs of stabilisation.\u201d Related: GlaxoSmithKline to pay \u00a3297m fine over China bribery network GSK\u2019s sales in China fell 14% in the latest quarter, but he said this reflected price reductions, which should boost sales volumes in coming months, as well as disposals of some products. He added: \u201cOverall, we are feeling pretty good about where we are in China. We are obviously glad to have put behind us the events of the last year or so and we feel that we have a very robust approach to how we now go forward in China, which is very much in step with what the authorities of China want to see.\u201dGSK has come through a damaging corruption scandal in China, for which it paid a \u00a3300m fine to the government in Beijing. It is still being investigated by the UK Serious Fraud Office and the US Department of Justice, which are both looking into allegations of bribery in China and other countries.Witty said GSK had cleaned up its act, becoming the \u201cfirst and only company\u201d to commit to stopping payments to doctors to speak on its behalf. This has been implemented in China and the UK and is being rolled out globally. GSK is also the first company to stop bonus payments tied to prescriptions to sales representatives around the world. Other drugmakers are expected to follow suit.Britain\u2019s biggest pharmaceutical company reported sales of \u00a35.9bn in the second quarter, up 7% at constant exchange rates. Core operating profit fell 3% to \u00a31.35bn. The group said the \u201cstandout performance\u201d came from its new HIV drugs, Tivicay and Triumeq, which vindicated its decision in May to hold on to its HIV venture, after plans to spin it off.It is the first full quarter since GSK sold its cancer business to Novartis and bought the Swiss group\u2019s vaccines division, while also boosting its consumer health business through a joint venture. But it will take time for the business revamp to pay off, with another fall in core earnings per share expected this year, before a return to double-digit growth next year. GSK is battling sales declines for its ageing blockbuster lung treatment Advair/Seretide.The drugmaker\u2019s malaria vaccine is the world\u2019s first and took 30 years to develop. It received the green light from European regulators last week. Witty said it could take between 12-18 months before it is rolled out in sub-Saharan Africa, as it still needs approval from the World Health Organisation and national governments. The shot will be sold on a not-for-profit basis, at a few dollars per dose. Related: First malaria vaccine given green light by European regulators Ketan Patel, a senior investment analyst at EdenTree Investment Management, said: \u201cInvestors in GlaxoSmithKline will have been buoyed by the recent pipeline success, with the approval of malarial vaccine Mosquirix. However, the company has tested the patience of long-term investors over the past few years. \u201cThe bribery scandal in China led to a large fine, declining returns on capital and faltering sales in its respiratory franchise in the US, and the impact on share price performance has been marked.\u201d Patel added, however, that the company has the healthiest pipeline in the global pharmaceutical sector with more than 250 products. Citi analyst Andrew Baum said: \u201cThe weak performance of China, US Breo and Anoro and EU Advair [all lung drugs] suggested respite is not imminent. GSK\u2019s pipeline is undervalued but the most interesting compounds remain in the early stages of development.\u201d", "tags": ["GlaxoSmithKline", "Business", "Pharmaceuticals industry", "Drugs", "Science", "UK news", "China", "Vaccines and immunisation", "Health", "Society", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "GlaxoSmithKline CEO: business stabilising despite China slowdown"},{"date": "2015-07-15T05:53:24Z", "country": "china", "content": "The escalating territorial dispute in the South China Sea is as much an ecological crisis as it is a geopolitical one. Dredging, land reclamation and the construction of artificial islands could be swamping centuries old reefs in sediment, endangering ecosystems that play a key role in maintaining fish stocks throughout the region. According to leading marine biologist Professor John McManus, a proper understanding of the marine ecosystem and its role in food security is key to finding a solution to both the environmental and political issues. McManus, Professor of Marine Biology & Fisheries at the University of Miami, is more familiar than most with the region\u2019s contested reefs, atolls and shoals, having spent seven years in the northern Philippines monitoring seasonal fluctuations in coastal fish populations, amongst other things. McManus was puzzled to observe that dwindling fish stocks would recover seasonally, despite severe overfishing. \u201cAll of the South China Sea coastlines are over-fished, except maybe Brunei where oil rigs are refuges for fish populations,\u201d McManus explains. \u201cYet species would become locally extinct, then a year or two later they\u2019d be back.\u201d  McManus discovered that periodic \u2018pulses\u2019 of larval fish were being carried on shifting currents throughout the South China Sea, replenishing coastal fish stocks and that they were being spawned in the offshore reef ecosystems at the heart of the current geopolitical fracas.  Conflict over territory in the South China Sea is not new, with China, the Philippines, Malaysia, Vietnam, Taiwan and Brunei all staking contrary claims. It has been making headlines again since China began building artificial islands in the Spratly Islands \u2013 something of a misnomer since the archipelago covers an area the size of Tunisia, only 4 sq km of which is above sea level. Or was. According to McManus, as of June, satellite images appeared to indicate China had reclaimed a total of 12.82 sq km of land. In 2013, The Philippines filed an ongoing lawsuit at the UN International Court of Arbitration, questioning the legality of China\u2019s territorial claims and its development of tidal reefs that are only periodically above water, which it alleges violates the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (Unclos). China has refused to participate in the arbitration, questioning its validity. China also claims its island building activities have caused only minimal, recoverable damage, but McManus, an expert in reef ecology, doubts this is the case. \u201cThe reef crest is a tiny thing about the same height as the tide range,\u201d he explains. \u201cThat\u2019s what is protecting everything \u2013 waves lose more than 90% of their energy when they hit the reef crest, reef flat and reef slope.\u201d What\u2019s more, this is an area that is prone to typhoons. \u201cAnd you can\u2019t build anything on an atoll without a wave-breaking crest in a big storm region.\u201d  McManus concedes that if you build behind the reef crest, the impact could technically be minimal. \u201cBut that\u2019s provided you haven\u2019t messed with the ecosystem that is continually building the crest \u2013 then it could wear down and wash away.\u201d China and to a lesser extent the other countries contesting the Spratly Islands, appear to have been dredging sand from within atolls, behind the fringing reef, effectively reclaiming land from the structure itself. \u201cThat sand is not a desert - it\u2019s an important part of the atoll,\u201d says McManus. \u201cAnd we\u2019ve found at least 20 areas that are being dredged like this.\u201d Dredgers sweep back and forth, creating clam shell patterns in the sand that are clearly visible by satellite. In the process, they destroy whatever lives there, including reef-building organisms, turtles and giant clams, while sending up plumes of corrosive sand and sediment that settle on surrounding reefs, killing them, McManus explains. For the many scientists who are predicting that coral reefs globally are in danger of disappearing by as early as the middle of the century due to bleaching, ocean acidification and rising seas, the reclamation is comparable to switching off an ailing patient\u2019s life support.  Still, McManus is hopeful of finding a solution. He has long argued for a peace park in the Spratly Islands and now believes the time is ripe to broker a new agreement not unlike the Antarctic Treaty, which has been successful in preventing conflict and environmental degradation in the Antarctic since it was signed in 1959. \u201cWe need a joint resources management agreement, a code of conduct and a freeze on claims and all claim-supporting activities for 30 to 50 years,\u201d he says. This would prevent further posturing by any of the claimants, control the activities of fishing fleets and protect the ecosystems so vital to food security.  Then there is the potential for marine based tourism. The Spratly Islands are contiguous with the Coral Triangle bioregion, the pinnacle of marine biodiversity on the planet. Just 400 miles away, Tubbataha Marine Park off the coast of Palawan in the Philippines is an example of how an offshore reef can go from being over-exploited to successfully managed. A Unesco world heritage site that was set up in 1993, Tubbataha plays the same role as its counterpart in the South China Sea, stocking the entire Sulu Sea with fish. It has also been listed among the best dive destinations in the world. In the last couple of years, whale sharks as well as tiger sharks and other apex predators have been sighted in the park, a sure sign of a healthy, recovering ecosystem.  The Spratly Islands have similar potential, says McManus. \u201cThese are some of the most beautiful reefs I\u2019ve ever seen with some of the highest levels of biodiversity in the world,\u201d he says. \u201cAnd they\u2019re covering them with sand to build airports on them.\u201d Instead of a proliferation of military bases, there could be dive resorts and live aboard boats operating in these waters. Unless of course this is about the oil and gas reserves beneath the Spratly Islands. But many now doubt the extent of these reserves and the potential for extraction. It\u2019s far more likely that China is consolidating its position in one of the most lucrative shipping channels in the world, part of its grand plan to establish a Maritime Silk Road through South and South East Asia to Africa and the Mediterranean. McManus hopes that having established its territorial claim - effectively by building it - China will now adopt a more conciliatory position.It is arguably in Beijing\u2019s interest to deescalate tensions, as it seeks to consolidate its position as a leader on the regional and global stage. It will not be able to do that by alienating its neighbours and conflict in the South China Sea could result in billions of dollars of lost trade. \u201cAntarctica has been one of the most successful environmental treaties in history,\u201d says McManus. \u201cChina is now in a position to benefit tremendously by taking the lead on this.\u201d ", "tags": ["Coral", "Marine life", "China", "World news"], "title": "Preventing Ecocide in South China Sea"},{"date": "2015-09-23T03:14:18Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has ticked off Malcolm Turnbull over his comments on the South China Sea, saying Australia should maintain a neutral position over the contested area.\u201cWe hope that Australia will stay committed to not taking sides on issues concerning disputes over sovereignty,\u201d foreign ministry spokesman Hong Lei told reporters in Beijing.On Monday the new prime minister said island-building in the disputed area was \u201cpushing the envelope\u201d of acceptable behaviour. Related: What\u2019s behind Beijing\u2019s drive to control the South China Sea? | Howard W French \u201cThe pushing the envelope in the South China Sea has had the consequence of exactly the reverse consequence of what China would seek to achieve,\u201d Turnbull told the ABC on Monday.Hong said the situation in the South China Sea was generally stable, and Beijing was having bilateral talks with nations concerned to resolve the disputes, as well as working with Asean nations to safeguard peace and stability in the area.On Tuesday the Philippine president, Benigno Aquino, rejected China\u2019s calls for a bilateral dialogue, saying that any talks should involve other countries that claim parts of the area such as Brunei, Malaysia, Vietnam and Taiwan.China, Vietnam and Taiwan claim all 200 or so of the Spratlys land features in the South China Sea, while Brunei, the Philippines and Malaysia claim parts of them.On Monday Turnbull said China\u2019s territorial ambitions in the South China Sea had been one of the more counterproductive foreign policies the Asian country had ever undertaken.\u201cWhat the island construction and all of the activity in the South China Sea has done has resulted in the smaller countries surrounding that area turning to the US even more than they did before,\u201d he said.Australia\u2019s new defence minister, Marise Payne, backed Turnbull\u2019s comments.\u201cHis remarks were very considered \u2013 I would have no difference with those remarks,\u201d she said on Tuesday.A Pentagon report released in August said China has reclaimed more than 1,174 hectares of land from the South China Sea in less than two years in its intensive island-building campaign.", "tags": ["Asia Pacific", "China", "Malcolm Turnbull", "Australian politics", "Philippines", "Australia news"], "title": "China admonishes Malcolm Turnbull on South China Sea comments"},{"date": "2015-08-26T12:36:08Z", "country": "china", "content": "Hollywood studio Warner Bros is set to move into China in a big way, as reports emerge of talks between the US film producers and China Media Capital, a state-backed investment fund, to create a joint venture that will make Chinese-language films aimed at the Chinese domestic market.This comes in the wake of rapidly increasing takings at the Chinese box office \u2013 according to the Wall Street Journal, the total for 2015 is up 43% on the year before, at $4.3bn (\u00a32.75bn). Four out of the top 10 films in China in 2015 are Hollywood imports \u2013 led by Fast and Furious 7 ($379.1m/\u00a3243m) \u2013 but the remaining six are Chinese in origin, with titles including Monster Hunt, Jian Bing Man and The Man From Macau 2.It would appear to be this latter category of film that Warner Bros is targeting, and with a rigid quota of 34 films per year that Hollywood is allowed to export to China and earn receipts from, the joint venture may prove a way to circumvent the tough government rules.The Warner Bros deal does not represent Hollywood\u2019s first move in this area: in 2012, DreamWorks unveiled a joint venture to produce Chinese-language films in Shanghai and \u201cco-operate\u201d on the production of Kung Fu Panda 3, due for release in 2016. Reports suggest that Warner Bros will contribute $50m (\u00a332m) to the new joint venture. However, it is not known how the current turmoil in China\u2019s financial markets may affect its progress.", "tags": ["Film", "Warner Bros", "Film industry", "China", "Asia Pacific", "Business", "Culture", "World news"], "title": "Warner Bros moves into China"},{"date": "2015-07-09T17:07:05Z", "country": "china", "content": "SuperGroup is stepping into China via a joint venture deal with Trendy International Group, a casual fashion company backed by LVMH, the luxury goods house that owns Louis Vuitton and C\u00e9line.The company behind the fashion brand Superdry said it would invest \u00a39m in the deal with TIG, which has around 3,000 stores across China including outlets for Italian brand Miss Sixty as well as its own labels Ochirly, Five Plus and Trendiano.SuperGroup said it was entering the new market in a \u201ccontrolled and managed way\u201d and would not open the first stores until the middle of next year.\u201cChina is a very exciting market and forecast to overtake the US as the largest apparel and footwear market in the world,\u201d it said.\u201cCustomer tastes are evolving from luxury brands to brands influenced by pop culture and we believe that the Superdry brand, with the right product, pricing model and infrastructure, is well positioned to be successful.\u201dThe move into China comes after SuperGroup bought back exclusive rights to distribute the Superdry brand in the US, Canada and Mexico for \u00a322.3m, and hired Luther and The Wire actor Idris Elba to help relaunch its brand across the Atlantic.The deal ended a 30-year licence with a US partner which had delivered just 15 stores and last year made a \u00a35m loss on \u00a320m of sales. SuperGroup also plans to expand in Europe, including Germany and Austria.Kate Calvert, an analyst at Investec, welcomed the move saying the company not only had the potential to double its UK and European-owned store base but now had longer-term growth prospects in the US and China.SuperGroup also revealed a 2% rise in underlying pretax profits to \u00a363.2m in the year to 25 April. Sales rose 12.9% to \u00a3486.6m.The company said trading in its new financial year had started well with like-for-like retail sales up 20.3% in the first 10 weeks, although that was set against a weak trading period the year before.", "tags": ["SuperGroup", "Business", "Retail industry"], "title": "SuperGroup embarks on China expansion"},{"date": "2015-07-02T04:22:23Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has almost finished construction of a 3,000m runway on the disputed Spratly islands in the South China Sea, satellite images have shown.The airstrip \u2013 the first by China on the islands it claims in the area \u2013 has been paved and taxiways have been built, according to the images published by the Asia Maritime Transparency Initiative (AMTI).\u201cTwo helipads, up to 10 satellite communications antennas, and one possible radar tower are also visible,\u201d said the Washington-based group, adding that two lighthouses and one cement plant have also been built on the island.The runway is large enough for heavy military transport planes and fighters. Images taken in April showed it only a third complete, demonstrating that it has since been constructed at a rapid rate.Fiery Cross Reef is one of several small islands in the South China Sea that China has been reclaiming, using dredger barges which scoop up sand and coral and pile it on to the reef.Although lying hundreds of miles south of its shores, China claims most of the South China Sea. The Philippines, Vietnam, Malaysia, Brunei and Taiwan also have overlapping claims.The United States and Japan also oppose China\u2019s reclamation of islands and environmentalists argue it destroys delicate reef ecology. The area is a busy shipping route connecting to the Strait of Malacca and the Pacific and is believed to have rich oil and gas deposits. The South China Sea is a key sea route for roughly \u00a33.17tn in trade.Beijing says the island outposts will serve maritime search and rescue missions, disaster relief, environmental protection as well as undefined military purposes.China\u2019s top diplomat, state councillor Yang Jiechi, said last week that \u201cnavigation freedom in the South China Sea is guaranteed\u201d.\u201cWe do believe that there will not be any issue or problem with navigational freedom in future. We hope the US can be impartial and objective to serve peace and stability in this region,\u201d he said after talks in Washington.Bonnie Glaser, a senior adviser for the Center for Strategic & International Studies, said that the beginning of the typhoon season means there could be a lull in activity over the coming month.She said that an upcoming visit by China\u2019s President Xi Jinping to the US in September could also dampen the drive by Beijing to militarise the islands. Related: Japan joins with former foes to flex its muscles as it eyes China's rise \u201cThat said, I do think that activity will again pick up again, perhaps in the fall. The Chinese are going to continue with construction, militarisation, but what we have over the summer is at least an opportunity for more dialogue,\u201d she said.Philippines and Vietnamese ships in the South China Sea report they have increasingly been harassed by Chinese vessels. In May, a Chinese fishing vessel rammed and sank a Vietnamese fishing boat.Images published by AMTI also showed that China had added military facilities to the South Johnson Reef. A 3,000 square-metre port and two loading stations have been built and there are two helipads on the reef and up to three satellite communications antennas, AMTI said.It said a large, multi-level military facility is in the centre of the reef, with two possible radar towers under construction. \u201cUp to six security and surveillance towers being built with four possible weapons towers also under construction,\u201d it noted.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Philippines"], "title": "Satellite images Chinese-built runway artificial island finished"},{"date": "2015-09-06T23:21:06Z", "country": "china", "content": "The economic downturn in China has compounded pressures on UK manufacturers and hit their output and exports, a leading business group will warn on Monday as it slashes its outlook for the sector.Sales to the domestic consumer market and booming car production have not been enough to make up for a drop in overseas demand, says the manufacturers\u2019 organisation EEF. Those manufacturers making mechanical equipment have been particularly hard hit as waning orders from China coincide with flagging demand from the oil and gas sector, itself hit by a plunging oil price.The trade group is halving its growth forecast for manufacturing this year to 0.7% from 1.5%, citing a \u201crollercoaster of risks\u201d that include renewed eurozone tensions and a slowdown in emerging markets, particularly China. EEF chief economist Lee Hopley said that while the overall UK economy looked set for \u201csolid\u201d growth this year, manufacturers were contending with a lower oil price, fragile eurozone growth, and now the blow to global investor confidence from turmoil in China.\u201cWhile UK data has continued to point to solid growth, UK manufacturing is having to contend with a rollercoaster of risks from the rest of the world and the white-knuckle ride is starting to take its toll,\u201d she said.\u201cWe\u2019ve seen the future of the eurozone on the line once again, turbulence and uncertainty over China and Greece and, of course, oil and gas are still a concern. Against this backdrop, it\u2019s no surprise that confidence is faltering and UK manufacturers are feeling less optimistic about their growth prospects for next year.\u201dThe gloomier outlook for manufacturing this year reflects signs of falling production and orders in EEF\u2019s latest survey of businesses, as well as a string of other weak indicators in the sector, including official figures showing it contracted in the second quarter. For the first time in more than two years, there were more companies reporting a drop in output than a rise, according to the EEF survey, published with law firm DLA Piper.The poll of 442 manufacturers showed that export orders fell to a six-year low in the past three months. Domestic orders were also down, hurt largely by weakness at those manufacturers reliant on the oil and gas sector.Looking ahead, more than a third of companies reported signs of improving demand in Europe \u2013 the UK\u2019s biggest export market \u2013 but the proportion of companies eyeing growth opportunities in Asia had fallen.The survey suggested there were still more companies planning to raise investment and employment rather than cut them, but only by a slim margin. Hopley said the extent of any further fallout from China\u2019s slowdown would be key for both employment and investment in the months ahead.\u201cIf there isn\u2019t something more persistent happening in China at the moment, companies feel they will wash through it. But clearly we are on amber alert for these [employment and investment] balances in the next quarter,\u201d she said.Economists point out China\u2019s slowdown has mixed effects on the UK. The downward pressure on oil prices is keeping inflation low and should boost household budgets. Meanwhile, the market turmoil could prompt the Bank of England to keep interest rates at their record low for longer.But for exporters, waning demand is another blow, on top of a stronger pound, that makes UK goods more expensive to overseas buyers. Manufacturers say that while direct UK exports to China are relatively small, it has been a growing market in recent years. China is the largest foreign market for British cars.The EEF has analysed what would happen to the UK economy if there was a 12% drop in China\u2019s imports, which is equivalent to the decline during the Asian financial crisis in the late 1990s. Such a fall would weigh on UK GDP, manufacturing output and, most notably, on manufactured exports, the group found, using its economic model.A separate report on the outlook for small businesses also flags deteriorating confidence, but points to domestic pressures. The Federation of Small Businesses says its members are more cautious after George Osborne\u2019s summer budget announced changes including taxes on dividends and a \u201cnational living wage\u201d.\u201cThe reaction to these changes is reflected in the evidence we present today, which shows confidence levels amongst members cooling markedly,\u201d said FSB national chairman John Allan.The group\u2019s survey of 1,580 small businesses showed they continued to hire new workers over the last three months, but at a slower rate than the previous quarter. Nearly six-in-10 small businesses, or 58.7%, plan to grow in the next 12 months, down from 65.3% in a poll three months ago.The poll also pointed to improving access to finance, a pickup in productivity and modest growth in exports.", "tags": ["Manufacturing sector", "Business", "Economics", "Economic growth (GDP)", "China", "Stock markets", "UK news", "Chinese economy"], "title": "UK manufacturing hit by turmoil in China"},{"date": "2015-09-07T21:20:31Z", "country": "china", "content": "Uber has raised $1.2bn for its expansion into China, according to an interview with its chief executive, Travis Kalanick, published by Sina, a Chinese-language website.  Related: Uber blocked on biggest Chinese messaging app Reports were confirmed by TechCrunch. Uber later confirmed to the Guardian that the funding round is unfinished and that it expects additional investments in the coming days and weeks.UberChina is expected to be valued at $8bn, according to reports. The company already operates in 11 Chinese cities, but would like to see that number increase by 50 in a year. In a letter obtained by the Financial Times in June, Kalanick told investors that Uber\u2019s Chinese riders were completing almost a million trips a day.\u201cThis kind of growth is remarkable and unprecedented. To put it frankly, China represents one of the largest untapped opportunities for Uber, potentially larger than the US,\u201d he wrote.\u201cSuccess in China, however, takes commitment over the long haul and a strong will, coupled with a unique understanding of the differences in China.\u201dTo accomplish this, Kalanick said, the company would build out local teams and partnerships. Under the heading \u201cChina Expansion\u201d, one Uber careers web page advertises \u201clauncher\u201d jobs. \u201cAs part of an elite team of Launchers charged with expanding our presence in new markets across the globe, you will play a large, direct role in allowing us to realize that vision,\u201d the page reads. \u201cAt base, this job entails being dropped into a city or country where Uber has zero brand and physical presence, quickly figuring out who and what make that city run, and then building a new business from scratch \u2013 in a matter of weeks \u2013 which sets Uber up for long-term success.\u201dIn the letter obtained by the FT, Kalanick wrote that starting on 22 June, UberChina would formally launch a fundraising process and would \u201cwelcome participation from our existing investor base\u201d.Expansion into China has not been smooth for Uber. In May, police visited the company\u2019s offices in Chengdu and Guangzhou. Uber said these were \u201croutine\u201d visits, but in August five drivers were arrested in Hong Kong for \u201cillegal use of vehicles for hire\u201d. They were later released on bail.", "tags": ["Uber", "Technology", "China", "World news"], "title": "Uber raises $1.2bn for China expansion \u2013 reports"},{"date": "2015-07-29T15:03:24Z", "country": "china", "content": "The GlaxoSmithKline CEO, Sir Andrew Witty, said the Chinese drug market has slowed down dramatically over the past year but insisted that the drugmaker\u2019s own business there is stabilising, as it unveiled second-quarter results that beat City expectations thanks to strong sales of new HIV drugs.Witty also flagged up 40 new drugs and vaccines that are in mid- to late-stage development, half of which are expected to be on the market or filed for regulatory approval by 2020. He highlighted a new shingles vaccine, as well as treatments for chronic lung disease, severe asthma, anaemia and heart disease.He said the company\u2019s research and development day in November \u2013 the first since 2003 \u2013 will be a \u201ckey moment\u201d, when it will update investors about its new medicines. The turmoil in China\u2019s stock markets in recent weeks has raised concerns over the state of the world\u2019s second-largest economy, which has been slowing.Witty said: \u201cThere is no doubt that we are seeing that the overall market place in China slowed quite dramatically over the last year or so. For our own business, we have seen some pretty good signs of stabilisation.\u201d Related: GlaxoSmithKline to pay \u00a3297m fine over China bribery network GSK\u2019s sales in China fell 14% in the latest quarter, but he said this reflected price reductions, which should boost sales volumes in coming months, as well as disposals of some products. He added: \u201cOverall, we are feeling pretty good about where we are in China. We are obviously glad to have put behind us the events of the last year or so and we feel that we have a very robust approach to how we now go forward in China, which is very much in step with what the authorities of China want to see.\u201dGSK has come through a damaging corruption scandal in China, for which it paid a \u00a3300m fine to the government in Beijing. It is still being investigated by the UK Serious Fraud Office and the US Department of Justice, which are both looking into allegations of bribery in China and other countries.Witty said GSK had cleaned up its act, becoming the \u201cfirst and only company\u201d to commit to stopping payments to doctors to speak on its behalf. This has been implemented in China and the UK and is being rolled out globally. GSK is also the first company to stop bonus payments tied to prescriptions to sales representatives around the world. Other drugmakers are expected to follow suit.Britain\u2019s biggest pharmaceutical company reported sales of \u00a35.9bn in the second quarter, up 7% at constant exchange rates. Core operating profit fell 3% to \u00a31.35bn. The group said the \u201cstandout performance\u201d came from its new HIV drugs, Tivicay and Triumeq, which vindicated its decision in May to hold on to its HIV venture, after plans to spin it off.It is the first full quarter since GSK sold its cancer business to Novartis and bought the Swiss group\u2019s vaccines division, while also boosting its consumer health business through a joint venture. But it will take time for the business revamp to pay off, with another fall in core earnings per share expected this year, before a return to double-digit growth next year. GSK is battling sales declines for its ageing blockbuster lung treatment Advair/Seretide.The drugmaker\u2019s malaria vaccine is the world\u2019s first and took 30 years to develop. It received the green light from European regulators last week. Witty said it could take between 12-18 months before it is rolled out in sub-Saharan Africa, as it still needs approval from the World Health Organisation and national governments. The shot will be sold on a not-for-profit basis, at a few dollars per dose. Related: First malaria vaccine given green light by European regulators Ketan Patel, a senior investment analyst at EdenTree Investment Management, said: \u201cInvestors in GlaxoSmithKline will have been buoyed by the recent pipeline success, with the approval of malarial vaccine Mosquirix. However, the company has tested the patience of long-term investors over the past few years. \u201cThe bribery scandal in China led to a large fine, declining returns on capital and faltering sales in its respiratory franchise in the US, and the impact on share price performance has been marked.\u201d Patel added, however, that the company has the healthiest pipeline in the global pharmaceutical sector with more than 250 products. Citi analyst Andrew Baum said: \u201cThe weak performance of China, US Breo and Anoro and EU Advair [all lung drugs] suggested respite is not imminent. GSK\u2019s pipeline is undervalued but the most interesting compounds remain in the early stages of development.\u201d", "tags": ["GlaxoSmithKline", "Business", "Pharmaceuticals industry", "Drugs", "Science", "UK news", "China", "Vaccines and immunisation", "Health", "Society", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "GlaxoSmithKline CEO: business stabilising despite China slowdown"},{"date": "2015-07-15T05:53:24Z", "country": "china", "content": "The escalating territorial dispute in the South China Sea is as much an ecological crisis as it is a geopolitical one. Dredging, land reclamation and the construction of artificial islands could be swamping centuries old reefs in sediment, endangering ecosystems that play a key role in maintaining fish stocks throughout the region. According to leading marine biologist Professor John McManus, a proper understanding of the marine ecosystem and its role in food security is key to finding a solution to both the environmental and political issues. McManus, Professor of Marine Biology & Fisheries at the University of Miami, is more familiar than most with the region\u2019s contested reefs, atolls and shoals, having spent seven years in the northern Philippines monitoring seasonal fluctuations in coastal fish populations, amongst other things. McManus was puzzled to observe that dwindling fish stocks would recover seasonally, despite severe overfishing. \u201cAll of the South China Sea coastlines are over-fished, except maybe Brunei where oil rigs are refuges for fish populations,\u201d McManus explains. \u201cYet species would become locally extinct, then a year or two later they\u2019d be back.\u201d  McManus discovered that periodic \u2018pulses\u2019 of larval fish were being carried on shifting currents throughout the South China Sea, replenishing coastal fish stocks and that they were being spawned in the offshore reef ecosystems at the heart of the current geopolitical fracas.  Conflict over territory in the South China Sea is not new, with China, the Philippines, Malaysia, Vietnam, Taiwan and Brunei all staking contrary claims. It has been making headlines again since China began building artificial islands in the Spratly Islands \u2013 something of a misnomer since the archipelago covers an area the size of Tunisia, only 4 sq km of which is above sea level. Or was. According to McManus, as of June, satellite images appeared to indicate China had reclaimed a total of 12.82 sq km of land. In 2013, The Philippines filed an ongoing lawsuit at the UN International Court of Arbitration, questioning the legality of China\u2019s territorial claims and its development of tidal reefs that are only periodically above water, which it alleges violates the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (Unclos). China has refused to participate in the arbitration, questioning its validity. China also claims its island building activities have caused only minimal, recoverable damage, but McManus, an expert in reef ecology, doubts this is the case. \u201cThe reef crest is a tiny thing about the same height as the tide range,\u201d he explains. \u201cThat\u2019s what is protecting everything \u2013 waves lose more than 90% of their energy when they hit the reef crest, reef flat and reef slope.\u201d What\u2019s more, this is an area that is prone to typhoons. \u201cAnd you can\u2019t build anything on an atoll without a wave-breaking crest in a big storm region.\u201d  McManus concedes that if you build behind the reef crest, the impact could technically be minimal. \u201cBut that\u2019s provided you haven\u2019t messed with the ecosystem that is continually building the crest \u2013 then it could wear down and wash away.\u201d China and to a lesser extent the other countries contesting the Spratly Islands, appear to have been dredging sand from within atolls, behind the fringing reef, effectively reclaiming land from the structure itself. \u201cThat sand is not a desert - it\u2019s an important part of the atoll,\u201d says McManus. \u201cAnd we\u2019ve found at least 20 areas that are being dredged like this.\u201d Dredgers sweep back and forth, creating clam shell patterns in the sand that are clearly visible by satellite. In the process, they destroy whatever lives there, including reef-building organisms, turtles and giant clams, while sending up plumes of corrosive sand and sediment that settle on surrounding reefs, killing them, McManus explains. For the many scientists who are predicting that coral reefs globally are in danger of disappearing by as early as the middle of the century due to bleaching, ocean acidification and rising seas, the reclamation is comparable to switching off an ailing patient\u2019s life support.  Still, McManus is hopeful of finding a solution. He has long argued for a peace park in the Spratly Islands and now believes the time is ripe to broker a new agreement not unlike the Antarctic Treaty, which has been successful in preventing conflict and environmental degradation in the Antarctic since it was signed in 1959. \u201cWe need a joint resources management agreement, a code of conduct and a freeze on claims and all claim-supporting activities for 30 to 50 years,\u201d he says. This would prevent further posturing by any of the claimants, control the activities of fishing fleets and protect the ecosystems so vital to food security.  Then there is the potential for marine based tourism. The Spratly Islands are contiguous with the Coral Triangle bioregion, the pinnacle of marine biodiversity on the planet. Just 400 miles away, Tubbataha Marine Park off the coast of Palawan in the Philippines is an example of how an offshore reef can go from being over-exploited to successfully managed. A Unesco world heritage site that was set up in 1993, Tubbataha plays the same role as its counterpart in the South China Sea, stocking the entire Sulu Sea with fish. It has also been listed among the best dive destinations in the world. In the last couple of years, whale sharks as well as tiger sharks and other apex predators have been sighted in the park, a sure sign of a healthy, recovering ecosystem.  The Spratly Islands have similar potential, says McManus. \u201cThese are some of the most beautiful reefs I\u2019ve ever seen with some of the highest levels of biodiversity in the world,\u201d he says. \u201cAnd they\u2019re covering them with sand to build airports on them.\u201d Instead of a proliferation of military bases, there could be dive resorts and live aboard boats operating in these waters. Unless of course this is about the oil and gas reserves beneath the Spratly Islands. But many now doubt the extent of these reserves and the potential for extraction. It\u2019s far more likely that China is consolidating its position in one of the most lucrative shipping channels in the world, part of its grand plan to establish a Maritime Silk Road through South and South East Asia to Africa and the Mediterranean. McManus hopes that having established its territorial claim - effectively by building it - China will now adopt a more conciliatory position.It is arguably in Beijing\u2019s interest to deescalate tensions, as it seeks to consolidate its position as a leader on the regional and global stage. It will not be able to do that by alienating its neighbours and conflict in the South China Sea could result in billions of dollars of lost trade. \u201cAntarctica has been one of the most successful environmental treaties in history,\u201d says McManus. \u201cChina is now in a position to benefit tremendously by taking the lead on this.\u201d ", "tags": ["Coral", "Marine life", "China", "World news"], "title": "Preventing Ecocide in South China Sea"},{"date": "2015-09-28T19:05:37Z", "country": "china", "content": "\u201cWe should see the start of a period of price appreciation for commodities in general.\u201d So said Ivan Glasenberg in August last year, before proceeding to bet Glencore\u2019s balance sheet on that happy outcome. The mining-cum-trading house hiked its interim dividend by 11% and launched a $1bn share buyback.Any temptation to pay down borrowings, which then stood at $37bn, was resisted. The important thing, declared Glasenberg, was to \u201cleverage tightening commodity fundamentals\u201d \u2013 in other words, take full advantage of the good times around the corner.Such hubristic statements have now met the full force of a Chinese economic slowdown. The price of copper, the biggest contributor to Glencore\u2019s earnings, has fallen by a quarter in the past year.Glasenberg is the not the first mining titan to look a fool. At times over the past decade, this industry has appeared to be on a mission to demonstrate the wisdom of Yogi Berra \u2013 \u201cit\u2019s hard to make predictions, especially about the future,\u201d as the obituaries reminded us last week. But it should not be so difficult, if your boardroom is working properly, to finance a company employing 180,000 people in a prudent manner.On that score, Glencore\u2019s directors have failed. The source of the company\u2019s woes is simple: borrowings of $30bn at the last count, or $47bn if you exclude inventories, are too high for current conditions. Investors fear the benefits of the belated $2.5bn fund-raising a fortnight ago will be lost in the wash if markets remain depressed for another year or so.Monday\u2019s astonishing 29% fall in Glencore\u2019s share price to 68.6p was attributed to a single analyst\u2019s calculation that the equity could be worthless at current commodity prices. In reality, Investec was merely repeating what others have been saying: that Glencore is so financially leveraged that judging a fair value for the equity is guesswork. If commodity prices improve, the shares are massively underpriced; if they don\u2019t, Glencore may need a lot more capital.The company grumbles about the short-selling activities of wicked hedge funds but shouldn\u2019t. Glencore could have stayed out of the line of fire if only it had raised more capital earlier. The moment to act was June, when serious cracks appeared in the Chinese growth story. At that point, Glencore\u2019s shares were 270p. A large rights issue would have been painful, but sometimes you have to pay up to banish doubts about your balance sheet.The baffling part is Glasenberg has been here before. In 2008, during the last commodities bust, Glencore\u2019s credit default spreads blew out as debt markets lost confidence. Glencore easily survived the scare but Glasenberg nevertheless led the business to the stock market in 2011, seemingly to secure access to permanent capital. But, having gained that security feature, he declined to use it as China slowed, and even had to be cajoled by investors into launching the modest $2.5bn placing. Related: Glencore: how did it go so wrong, again? Was that because Glasenberg wanted to resist any dilution of his own 8% holding, now reduced to less than \u00a31bn in value? Or does he just believe his appetite for debt will be vindicated in the end?Whatever the explanation, the non-executive directors \u2013 led by chairman Tony Hayward and including John Mack, former Morgan Stanley supremo \u2013 should be embarrassed by the sight of Glencore\u2019s shares being blown around like those of a bewildered, head-in-the-sand bank, circa 2008. They should be asking themselves some hard questions. Here\u2019s one:BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto, the two companies with the best mines in the industry, have the most conservative balance sheets. Why does Glencore, with higher-cost mines and a trading division that requires vast supplies of cheap capital, have the most aggressive?Shell chief executive Ben van Beurden would never admit it, but he may be relieved that the group\u2019s first deep well drilled into the Arctic seabed has found no useful oil. Related: Shell has frozen its Arctic oil drilling \u2013\u00a0but it's still hungry for fossil fuels Now he can abandon the Arctic expedition with the minimum of fuss. There is no need to explain to sceptical shareholders why expensive Arctic exploration had previously survived a cull in the group\u2019s capital expenditure budget. And he doesn\u2019t have to risk more damage to Shell\u2019s environmental reputation.Shell has spent some $7bn in the Arctic \u2013 a fifth of its exploration budget since 2007 \u2013 but retreat has seemed the obvious step, whatever the test well produced, since the oil price fell below $100 a barrel a year ago.Why did it take so long to pull out? At a push, one might say that, having spent such colossal sums, Shell had to find out what lay beneath. Unfortunately, one suspects an equal role was played by old-fashioned corporate pride.", "tags": ["Glencore", "Business", "Royal Dutch Shell", "Commodities", "Mining", "China", "Shares"], "title": "Glencore should have prepared better for China slowdown"},{"date": "2015-09-23T03:14:18Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has ticked off Malcolm Turnbull over his comments on the South China Sea, saying Australia should maintain a neutral position over the contested area.\u201cWe hope that Australia will stay committed to not taking sides on issues concerning disputes over sovereignty,\u201d foreign ministry spokesman Hong Lei told reporters in Beijing.On Monday the new prime minister said island-building in the disputed area was \u201cpushing the envelope\u201d of acceptable behaviour. Related: What\u2019s behind Beijing\u2019s drive to control the South China Sea? | Howard W French \u201cThe pushing the envelope in the South China Sea has had the consequence of exactly the reverse consequence of what China would seek to achieve,\u201d Turnbull told the ABC on Monday.Hong said the situation in the South China Sea was generally stable, and Beijing was having bilateral talks with nations concerned to resolve the disputes, as well as working with Asean nations to safeguard peace and stability in the area.On Tuesday the Philippine president, Benigno Aquino, rejected China\u2019s calls for a bilateral dialogue, saying that any talks should involve other countries that claim parts of the area such as Brunei, Malaysia, Vietnam and Taiwan.China, Vietnam and Taiwan claim all 200 or so of the Spratlys land features in the South China Sea, while Brunei, the Philippines and Malaysia claim parts of them.On Monday Turnbull said China\u2019s territorial ambitions in the South China Sea had been one of the more counterproductive foreign policies the Asian country had ever undertaken.\u201cWhat the island construction and all of the activity in the South China Sea has done has resulted in the smaller countries surrounding that area turning to the US even more than they did before,\u201d he said.Australia\u2019s new defence minister, Marise Payne, backed Turnbull\u2019s comments.\u201cHis remarks were very considered \u2013 I would have no difference with those remarks,\u201d she said on Tuesday.A Pentagon report released in August said China has reclaimed more than 1,174 hectares of land from the South China Sea in less than two years in its intensive island-building campaign.", "tags": ["Asia Pacific", "China", "Malcolm Turnbull", "Australian politics", "Philippines", "Australia news"], "title": "China admonishes Malcolm Turnbull on South China Sea comments"},{"date": "2015-08-26T12:36:08Z", "country": "china", "content": "Hollywood studio Warner Bros is set to move into China in a big way, as reports emerge of talks between the US film producers and China Media Capital, a state-backed investment fund, to create a joint venture that will make Chinese-language films aimed at the Chinese domestic market.This comes in the wake of rapidly increasing takings at the Chinese box office \u2013 according to the Wall Street Journal, the total for 2015 is up 43% on the year before, at $4.3bn (\u00a32.75bn). Four out of the top 10 films in China in 2015 are Hollywood imports \u2013 led by Fast and Furious 7 ($379.1m/\u00a3243m) \u2013 but the remaining six are Chinese in origin, with titles including Monster Hunt, Jian Bing Man and The Man From Macau 2.It would appear to be this latter category of film that Warner Bros is targeting, and with a rigid quota of 34 films per year that Hollywood is allowed to export to China and earn receipts from, the joint venture may prove a way to circumvent the tough government rules.The Warner Bros deal does not represent Hollywood\u2019s first move in this area: in 2012, DreamWorks unveiled a joint venture to produce Chinese-language films in Shanghai and \u201cco-operate\u201d on the production of Kung Fu Panda 3, due for release in 2016. Reports suggest that Warner Bros will contribute $50m (\u00a332m) to the new joint venture. However, it is not known how the current turmoil in China\u2019s financial markets may affect its progress.", "tags": ["Film", "Warner Bros", "Film industry", "China", "Asia Pacific", "Business", "Culture", "World news"], "title": "Warner Bros moves into China"},{"date": "2015-07-09T17:07:05Z", "country": "china", "content": "SuperGroup is stepping into China via a joint venture deal with Trendy International Group, a casual fashion company backed by LVMH, the luxury goods house that owns Louis Vuitton and C\u00e9line.The company behind the fashion brand Superdry said it would invest \u00a39m in the deal with TIG, which has around 3,000 stores across China including outlets for Italian brand Miss Sixty as well as its own labels Ochirly, Five Plus and Trendiano.SuperGroup said it was entering the new market in a \u201ccontrolled and managed way\u201d and would not open the first stores until the middle of next year.\u201cChina is a very exciting market and forecast to overtake the US as the largest apparel and footwear market in the world,\u201d it said.\u201cCustomer tastes are evolving from luxury brands to brands influenced by pop culture and we believe that the Superdry brand, with the right product, pricing model and infrastructure, is well positioned to be successful.\u201dThe move into China comes after SuperGroup bought back exclusive rights to distribute the Superdry brand in the US, Canada and Mexico for \u00a322.3m, and hired Luther and The Wire actor Idris Elba to help relaunch its brand across the Atlantic.The deal ended a 30-year licence with a US partner which had delivered just 15 stores and last year made a \u00a35m loss on \u00a320m of sales. SuperGroup also plans to expand in Europe, including Germany and Austria.Kate Calvert, an analyst at Investec, welcomed the move saying the company not only had the potential to double its UK and European-owned store base but now had longer-term growth prospects in the US and China.SuperGroup also revealed a 2% rise in underlying pretax profits to \u00a363.2m in the year to 25 April. Sales rose 12.9% to \u00a3486.6m.The company said trading in its new financial year had started well with like-for-like retail sales up 20.3% in the first 10 weeks, although that was set against a weak trading period the year before.", "tags": ["SuperGroup", "Business", "Retail industry"], "title": "SuperGroup embarks on China expansion"},{"date": "2015-07-02T04:22:23Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has almost finished construction of a 3,000m runway on the disputed Spratly islands in the South China Sea, satellite images have shown.The airstrip \u2013 the first by China on the islands it claims in the area \u2013 has been paved and taxiways have been built, according to the images published by the Asia Maritime Transparency Initiative (AMTI).\u201cTwo helipads, up to 10 satellite communications antennas, and one possible radar tower are also visible,\u201d said the Washington-based group, adding that two lighthouses and one cement plant have also been built on the island.The runway is large enough for heavy military transport planes and fighters. Images taken in April showed it only a third complete, demonstrating that it has since been constructed at a rapid rate.Fiery Cross Reef is one of several small islands in the South China Sea that China has been reclaiming, using dredger barges which scoop up sand and coral and pile it on to the reef.Although lying hundreds of miles south of its shores, China claims most of the South China Sea. The Philippines, Vietnam, Malaysia, Brunei and Taiwan also have overlapping claims.The United States and Japan also oppose China\u2019s reclamation of islands and environmentalists argue it destroys delicate reef ecology. The area is a busy shipping route connecting to the Strait of Malacca and the Pacific and is believed to have rich oil and gas deposits. The South China Sea is a key sea route for roughly \u00a33.17tn in trade.Beijing says the island outposts will serve maritime search and rescue missions, disaster relief, environmental protection as well as undefined military purposes.China\u2019s top diplomat, state councillor Yang Jiechi, said last week that \u201cnavigation freedom in the South China Sea is guaranteed\u201d.\u201cWe do believe that there will not be any issue or problem with navigational freedom in future. We hope the US can be impartial and objective to serve peace and stability in this region,\u201d he said after talks in Washington.Bonnie Glaser, a senior adviser for the Center for Strategic & International Studies, said that the beginning of the typhoon season means there could be a lull in activity over the coming month.She said that an upcoming visit by China\u2019s President Xi Jinping to the US in September could also dampen the drive by Beijing to militarise the islands. Related: Japan joins with former foes to flex its muscles as it eyes China's rise \u201cThat said, I do think that activity will again pick up again, perhaps in the fall. The Chinese are going to continue with construction, militarisation, but what we have over the summer is at least an opportunity for more dialogue,\u201d she said.Philippines and Vietnamese ships in the South China Sea report they have increasingly been harassed by Chinese vessels. In May, a Chinese fishing vessel rammed and sank a Vietnamese fishing boat.Images published by AMTI also showed that China had added military facilities to the South Johnson Reef. A 3,000 square-metre port and two loading stations have been built and there are two helipads on the reef and up to three satellite communications antennas, AMTI said.It said a large, multi-level military facility is in the centre of the reef, with two possible radar towers under construction. \u201cUp to six security and surveillance towers being built with four possible weapons towers also under construction,\u201d it noted.", "tags": ["China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Philippines"], "title": "Satellite images Chinese-built runway artificial island finished"},{"date": "2015-09-06T23:21:06Z", "country": "china", "content": "The economic downturn in China has compounded pressures on UK manufacturers and hit their output and exports, a leading business group will warn on Monday as it slashes its outlook for the sector.Sales to the domestic consumer market and booming car production have not been enough to make up for a drop in overseas demand, says the manufacturers\u2019 organisation EEF. Those manufacturers making mechanical equipment have been particularly hard hit as waning orders from China coincide with flagging demand from the oil and gas sector, itself hit by a plunging oil price.The trade group is halving its growth forecast for manufacturing this year to 0.7% from 1.5%, citing a \u201crollercoaster of risks\u201d that include renewed eurozone tensions and a slowdown in emerging markets, particularly China. EEF chief economist Lee Hopley said that while the overall UK economy looked set for \u201csolid\u201d growth this year, manufacturers were contending with a lower oil price, fragile eurozone growth, and now the blow to global investor confidence from turmoil in China.\u201cWhile UK data has continued to point to solid growth, UK manufacturing is having to contend with a rollercoaster of risks from the rest of the world and the white-knuckle ride is starting to take its toll,\u201d she said.\u201cWe\u2019ve seen the future of the eurozone on the line once again, turbulence and uncertainty over China and Greece and, of course, oil and gas are still a concern. Against this backdrop, it\u2019s no surprise that confidence is faltering and UK manufacturers are feeling less optimistic about their growth prospects for next year.\u201dThe gloomier outlook for manufacturing this year reflects signs of falling production and orders in EEF\u2019s latest survey of businesses, as well as a string of other weak indicators in the sector, including official figures showing it contracted in the second quarter. For the first time in more than two years, there were more companies reporting a drop in output than a rise, according to the EEF survey, published with law firm DLA Piper.The poll of 442 manufacturers showed that export orders fell to a six-year low in the past three months. Domestic orders were also down, hurt largely by weakness at those manufacturers reliant on the oil and gas sector.Looking ahead, more than a third of companies reported signs of improving demand in Europe \u2013 the UK\u2019s biggest export market \u2013 but the proportion of companies eyeing growth opportunities in Asia had fallen.The survey suggested there were still more companies planning to raise investment and employment rather than cut them, but only by a slim margin. Hopley said the extent of any further fallout from China\u2019s slowdown would be key for both employment and investment in the months ahead.\u201cIf there isn\u2019t something more persistent happening in China at the moment, companies feel they will wash through it. But clearly we are on amber alert for these [employment and investment] balances in the next quarter,\u201d she said.Economists point out China\u2019s slowdown has mixed effects on the UK. The downward pressure on oil prices is keeping inflation low and should boost household budgets. Meanwhile, the market turmoil could prompt the Bank of England to keep interest rates at their record low for longer.But for exporters, waning demand is another blow, on top of a stronger pound, that makes UK goods more expensive to overseas buyers. Manufacturers say that while direct UK exports to China are relatively small, it has been a growing market in recent years. China is the largest foreign market for British cars.The EEF has analysed what would happen to the UK economy if there was a 12% drop in China\u2019s imports, which is equivalent to the decline during the Asian financial crisis in the late 1990s. Such a fall would weigh on UK GDP, manufacturing output and, most notably, on manufactured exports, the group found, using its economic model.A separate report on the outlook for small businesses also flags deteriorating confidence, but points to domestic pressures. The Federation of Small Businesses says its members are more cautious after George Osborne\u2019s summer budget announced changes including taxes on dividends and a \u201cnational living wage\u201d.\u201cThe reaction to these changes is reflected in the evidence we present today, which shows confidence levels amongst members cooling markedly,\u201d said FSB national chairman John Allan.The group\u2019s survey of 1,580 small businesses showed they continued to hire new workers over the last three months, but at a slower rate than the previous quarter. Nearly six-in-10 small businesses, or 58.7%, plan to grow in the next 12 months, down from 65.3% in a poll three months ago.The poll also pointed to improving access to finance, a pickup in productivity and modest growth in exports.", "tags": ["Manufacturing sector", "Business", "Economics", "Economic growth (GDP)", "China", "Stock markets", "UK news", "Chinese economy"], "title": "UK manufacturing hit by turmoil in China"},{"date": "2015-09-07T21:20:31Z", "country": "china", "content": "Uber has raised $1.2bn for its expansion into China, according to an interview with its chief executive, Travis Kalanick, published by Sina, a Chinese-language website.  Related: Uber blocked on biggest Chinese messaging app Reports were confirmed by TechCrunch. Uber later confirmed to the Guardian that the funding round is unfinished and that it expects additional investments in the coming days and weeks.UberChina is expected to be valued at $8bn, according to reports. The company already operates in 11 Chinese cities, but would like to see that number increase by 50 in a year. In a letter obtained by the Financial Times in June, Kalanick told investors that Uber\u2019s Chinese riders were completing almost a million trips a day.\u201cThis kind of growth is remarkable and unprecedented. To put it frankly, China represents one of the largest untapped opportunities for Uber, potentially larger than the US,\u201d he wrote.\u201cSuccess in China, however, takes commitment over the long haul and a strong will, coupled with a unique understanding of the differences in China.\u201dTo accomplish this, Kalanick said, the company would build out local teams and partnerships. Under the heading \u201cChina Expansion\u201d, one Uber careers web page advertises \u201clauncher\u201d jobs. \u201cAs part of an elite team of Launchers charged with expanding our presence in new markets across the globe, you will play a large, direct role in allowing us to realize that vision,\u201d the page reads. \u201cAt base, this job entails being dropped into a city or country where Uber has zero brand and physical presence, quickly figuring out who and what make that city run, and then building a new business from scratch \u2013 in a matter of weeks \u2013 which sets Uber up for long-term success.\u201dIn the letter obtained by the FT, Kalanick wrote that starting on 22 June, UberChina would formally launch a fundraising process and would \u201cwelcome participation from our existing investor base\u201d.Expansion into China has not been smooth for Uber. In May, police visited the company\u2019s offices in Chengdu and Guangzhou. Uber said these were \u201croutine\u201d visits, but in August five drivers were arrested in Hong Kong for \u201cillegal use of vehicles for hire\u201d. They were later released on bail.", "tags": ["Uber", "Technology", "China", "World news"], "title": "Uber raises $1.2bn for China expansion \u2013 reports"},{"date": "2015-07-29T15:03:24Z", "country": "china", "content": "The GlaxoSmithKline CEO, Sir Andrew Witty, said the Chinese drug market has slowed down dramatically over the past year but insisted that the drugmaker\u2019s own business there is stabilising, as it unveiled second-quarter results that beat City expectations thanks to strong sales of new HIV drugs.Witty also flagged up 40 new drugs and vaccines that are in mid- to late-stage development, half of which are expected to be on the market or filed for regulatory approval by 2020. He highlighted a new shingles vaccine, as well as treatments for chronic lung disease, severe asthma, anaemia and heart disease.He said the company\u2019s research and development day in November \u2013 the first since 2003 \u2013 will be a \u201ckey moment\u201d, when it will update investors about its new medicines. The turmoil in China\u2019s stock markets in recent weeks has raised concerns over the state of the world\u2019s second-largest economy, which has been slowing.Witty said: \u201cThere is no doubt that we are seeing that the overall market place in China slowed quite dramatically over the last year or so. For our own business, we have seen some pretty good signs of stabilisation.\u201d Related: GlaxoSmithKline to pay \u00a3297m fine over China bribery network GSK\u2019s sales in China fell 14% in the latest quarter, but he said this reflected price reductions, which should boost sales volumes in coming months, as well as disposals of some products. He added: \u201cOverall, we are feeling pretty good about where we are in China. We are obviously glad to have put behind us the events of the last year or so and we feel that we have a very robust approach to how we now go forward in China, which is very much in step with what the authorities of China want to see.\u201dGSK has come through a damaging corruption scandal in China, for which it paid a \u00a3300m fine to the government in Beijing. It is still being investigated by the UK Serious Fraud Office and the US Department of Justice, which are both looking into allegations of bribery in China and other countries.Witty said GSK had cleaned up its act, becoming the \u201cfirst and only company\u201d to commit to stopping payments to doctors to speak on its behalf. This has been implemented in China and the UK and is being rolled out globally. GSK is also the first company to stop bonus payments tied to prescriptions to sales representatives around the world. Other drugmakers are expected to follow suit.Britain\u2019s biggest pharmaceutical company reported sales of \u00a35.9bn in the second quarter, up 7% at constant exchange rates. Core operating profit fell 3% to \u00a31.35bn. The group said the \u201cstandout performance\u201d came from its new HIV drugs, Tivicay and Triumeq, which vindicated its decision in May to hold on to its HIV venture, after plans to spin it off.It is the first full quarter since GSK sold its cancer business to Novartis and bought the Swiss group\u2019s vaccines division, while also boosting its consumer health business through a joint venture. But it will take time for the business revamp to pay off, with another fall in core earnings per share expected this year, before a return to double-digit growth next year. GSK is battling sales declines for its ageing blockbuster lung treatment Advair/Seretide.The drugmaker\u2019s malaria vaccine is the world\u2019s first and took 30 years to develop. It received the green light from European regulators last week. Witty said it could take between 12-18 months before it is rolled out in sub-Saharan Africa, as it still needs approval from the World Health Organisation and national governments. The shot will be sold on a not-for-profit basis, at a few dollars per dose. Related: First malaria vaccine given green light by European regulators Ketan Patel, a senior investment analyst at EdenTree Investment Management, said: \u201cInvestors in GlaxoSmithKline will have been buoyed by the recent pipeline success, with the approval of malarial vaccine Mosquirix. However, the company has tested the patience of long-term investors over the past few years. \u201cThe bribery scandal in China led to a large fine, declining returns on capital and faltering sales in its respiratory franchise in the US, and the impact on share price performance has been marked.\u201d Patel added, however, that the company has the healthiest pipeline in the global pharmaceutical sector with more than 250 products. Citi analyst Andrew Baum said: \u201cThe weak performance of China, US Breo and Anoro and EU Advair [all lung drugs] suggested respite is not imminent. GSK\u2019s pipeline is undervalued but the most interesting compounds remain in the early stages of development.\u201d", "tags": ["GlaxoSmithKline", "Business", "Pharmaceuticals industry", "Drugs", "Science", "UK news", "China", "Vaccines and immunisation", "Health", "Society", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "GlaxoSmithKline CEO: business stabilising despite China slowdown"},{"date": "2015-07-15T05:53:24Z", "country": "china", "content": "The escalating territorial dispute in the South China Sea is as much an ecological crisis as it is a geopolitical one. Dredging, land reclamation and the construction of artificial islands could be swamping centuries old reefs in sediment, endangering ecosystems that play a key role in maintaining fish stocks throughout the region. According to leading marine biologist Professor John McManus, a proper understanding of the marine ecosystem and its role in food security is key to finding a solution to both the environmental and political issues. McManus, Professor of Marine Biology & Fisheries at the University of Miami, is more familiar than most with the region\u2019s contested reefs, atolls and shoals, having spent seven years in the northern Philippines monitoring seasonal fluctuations in coastal fish populations, amongst other things. McManus was puzzled to observe that dwindling fish stocks would recover seasonally, despite severe overfishing. \u201cAll of the South China Sea coastlines are over-fished, except maybe Brunei where oil rigs are refuges for fish populations,\u201d McManus explains. \u201cYet species would become locally extinct, then a year or two later they\u2019d be back.\u201d  McManus discovered that periodic \u2018pulses\u2019 of larval fish were being carried on shifting currents throughout the South China Sea, replenishing coastal fish stocks and that they were being spawned in the offshore reef ecosystems at the heart of the current geopolitical fracas.  Conflict over territory in the South China Sea is not new, with China, the Philippines, Malaysia, Vietnam, Taiwan and Brunei all staking contrary claims. It has been making headlines again since China began building artificial islands in the Spratly Islands \u2013 something of a misnomer since the archipelago covers an area the size of Tunisia, only 4 sq km of which is above sea level. Or was. According to McManus, as of June, satellite images appeared to indicate China had reclaimed a total of 12.82 sq km of land. In 2013, The Philippines filed an ongoing lawsuit at the UN International Court of Arbitration, questioning the legality of China\u2019s territorial claims and its development of tidal reefs that are only periodically above water, which it alleges violates the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (Unclos). China has refused to participate in the arbitration, questioning its validity. China also claims its island building activities have caused only minimal, recoverable damage, but McManus, an expert in reef ecology, doubts this is the case. \u201cThe reef crest is a tiny thing about the same height as the tide range,\u201d he explains. \u201cThat\u2019s what is protecting everything \u2013 waves lose more than 90% of their energy when they hit the reef crest, reef flat and reef slope.\u201d What\u2019s more, this is an area that is prone to typhoons. \u201cAnd you can\u2019t build anything on an atoll without a wave-breaking crest in a big storm region.\u201d  McManus concedes that if you build behind the reef crest, the impact could technically be minimal. \u201cBut that\u2019s provided you haven\u2019t messed with the ecosystem that is continually building the crest \u2013 then it could wear down and wash away.\u201d China and to a lesser extent the other countries contesting the Spratly Islands, appear to have been dredging sand from within atolls, behind the fringing reef, effectively reclaiming land from the structure itself. \u201cThat sand is not a desert - it\u2019s an important part of the atoll,\u201d says McManus. \u201cAnd we\u2019ve found at least 20 areas that are being dredged like this.\u201d Dredgers sweep back and forth, creating clam shell patterns in the sand that are clearly visible by satellite. In the process, they destroy whatever lives there, including reef-building organisms, turtles and giant clams, while sending up plumes of corrosive sand and sediment that settle on surrounding reefs, killing them, McManus explains. For the many scientists who are predicting that coral reefs globally are in danger of disappearing by as early as the middle of the century due to bleaching, ocean acidification and rising seas, the reclamation is comparable to switching off an ailing patient\u2019s life support.  Still, McManus is hopeful of finding a solution. He has long argued for a peace park in the Spratly Islands and now believes the time is ripe to broker a new agreement not unlike the Antarctic Treaty, which has been successful in preventing conflict and environmental degradation in the Antarctic since it was signed in 1959. \u201cWe need a joint resources management agreement, a code of conduct and a freeze on claims and all claim-supporting activities for 30 to 50 years,\u201d he says. This would prevent further posturing by any of the claimants, control the activities of fishing fleets and protect the ecosystems so vital to food security.  Then there is the potential for marine based tourism. The Spratly Islands are contiguous with the Coral Triangle bioregion, the pinnacle of marine biodiversity on the planet. Just 400 miles away, Tubbataha Marine Park off the coast of Palawan in the Philippines is an example of how an offshore reef can go from being over-exploited to successfully managed. A Unesco world heritage site that was set up in 1993, Tubbataha plays the same role as its counterpart in the South China Sea, stocking the entire Sulu Sea with fish. It has also been listed among the best dive destinations in the world. In the last couple of years, whale sharks as well as tiger sharks and other apex predators have been sighted in the park, a sure sign of a healthy, recovering ecosystem.  The Spratly Islands have similar potential, says McManus. \u201cThese are some of the most beautiful reefs I\u2019ve ever seen with some of the highest levels of biodiversity in the world,\u201d he says. \u201cAnd they\u2019re covering them with sand to build airports on them.\u201d Instead of a proliferation of military bases, there could be dive resorts and live aboard boats operating in these waters. Unless of course this is about the oil and gas reserves beneath the Spratly Islands. But many now doubt the extent of these reserves and the potential for extraction. It\u2019s far more likely that China is consolidating its position in one of the most lucrative shipping channels in the world, part of its grand plan to establish a Maritime Silk Road through South and South East Asia to Africa and the Mediterranean. McManus hopes that having established its territorial claim - effectively by building it - China will now adopt a more conciliatory position.It is arguably in Beijing\u2019s interest to deescalate tensions, as it seeks to consolidate its position as a leader on the regional and global stage. It will not be able to do that by alienating its neighbours and conflict in the South China Sea could result in billions of dollars of lost trade. \u201cAntarctica has been one of the most successful environmental treaties in history,\u201d says McManus. \u201cChina is now in a position to benefit tremendously by taking the lead on this.\u201d ", "tags": ["Coral", "Marine life", "China", "World news"], "title": "Preventing Ecocide in South China Sea"},{"date": "2015-09-28T19:05:37Z", "country": "china", "content": "\u201cWe should see the start of a period of price appreciation for commodities in general.\u201d So said Ivan Glasenberg in August last year, before proceeding to bet Glencore\u2019s balance sheet on that happy outcome. The mining-cum-trading house hiked its interim dividend by 11% and launched a $1bn share buyback.Any temptation to pay down borrowings, which then stood at $37bn, was resisted. The important thing, declared Glasenberg, was to \u201cleverage tightening commodity fundamentals\u201d \u2013 in other words, take full advantage of the good times around the corner.Such hubristic statements have now met the full force of a Chinese economic slowdown. The price of copper, the biggest contributor to Glencore\u2019s earnings, has fallen by a quarter in the past year.Glasenberg is the not the first mining titan to look a fool. At times over the past decade, this industry has appeared to be on a mission to demonstrate the wisdom of Yogi Berra \u2013 \u201cit\u2019s hard to make predictions, especially about the future,\u201d as the obituaries reminded us last week. But it should not be so difficult, if your boardroom is working properly, to finance a company employing 180,000 people in a prudent manner.On that score, Glencore\u2019s directors have failed. The source of the company\u2019s woes is simple: borrowings of $30bn at the last count, or $47bn if you exclude inventories, are too high for current conditions. Investors fear the benefits of the belated $2.5bn fund-raising a fortnight ago will be lost in the wash if markets remain depressed for another year or so.Monday\u2019s astonishing 29% fall in Glencore\u2019s share price to 68.6p was attributed to a single analyst\u2019s calculation that the equity could be worthless at current commodity prices. In reality, Investec was merely repeating what others have been saying: that Glencore is so financially leveraged that judging a fair value for the equity is guesswork. If commodity prices improve, the shares are massively underpriced; if they don\u2019t, Glencore may need a lot more capital.The company grumbles about the short-selling activities of wicked hedge funds but shouldn\u2019t. Glencore could have stayed out of the line of fire if only it had raised more capital earlier. The moment to act was June, when serious cracks appeared in the Chinese growth story. At that point, Glencore\u2019s shares were 270p. A large rights issue would have been painful, but sometimes you have to pay up to banish doubts about your balance sheet.The baffling part is Glasenberg has been here before. In 2008, during the last commodities bust, Glencore\u2019s credit default spreads blew out as debt markets lost confidence. Glencore easily survived the scare but Glasenberg nevertheless led the business to the stock market in 2011, seemingly to secure access to permanent capital. But, having gained that security feature, he declined to use it as China slowed, and even had to be cajoled by investors into launching the modest $2.5bn placing. Related: Glencore: how did it go so wrong, again? Was that because Glasenberg wanted to resist any dilution of his own 8% holding, now reduced to less than \u00a31bn in value? Or does he just believe his appetite for debt will be vindicated in the end?Whatever the explanation, the non-executive directors \u2013 led by chairman Tony Hayward and including John Mack, former Morgan Stanley supremo \u2013 should be embarrassed by the sight of Glencore\u2019s shares being blown around like those of a bewildered, head-in-the-sand bank, circa 2008. They should be asking themselves some hard questions. Here\u2019s one:BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto, the two companies with the best mines in the industry, have the most conservative balance sheets. Why does Glencore, with higher-cost mines and a trading division that requires vast supplies of cheap capital, have the most aggressive?Shell chief executive Ben van Beurden would never admit it, but he may be relieved that the group\u2019s first deep well drilled into the Arctic seabed has found no useful oil. Related: Shell has frozen its Arctic oil drilling \u2013\u00a0but it's still hungry for fossil fuels Now he can abandon the Arctic expedition with the minimum of fuss. There is no need to explain to sceptical shareholders why expensive Arctic exploration had previously survived a cull in the group\u2019s capital expenditure budget. And he doesn\u2019t have to risk more damage to Shell\u2019s environmental reputation.Shell has spent some $7bn in the Arctic \u2013 a fifth of its exploration budget since 2007 \u2013 but retreat has seemed the obvious step, whatever the test well produced, since the oil price fell below $100 a barrel a year ago.Why did it take so long to pull out? At a push, one might say that, having spent such colossal sums, Shell had to find out what lay beneath. Unfortunately, one suspects an equal role was played by old-fashioned corporate pride.", "tags": ["Glencore", "Business", "Royal Dutch Shell", "Commodities", "Mining", "China", "Shares"], "title": "Glencore should have prepared better for China slowdown"},{"date": "2015-09-27T07:59:02Z", "country": "china", "content": "Chinese hard hats are red, we discovered last week. George Osborne, never slow to slip into industrial workwear, had several opportunities to model one during his five-day-long grand tour, as he gladhanded officials, chatted to workers, and urged Chinese firms to help build Britain\u2019s \u201cnorthern powerhouse\u201d.The chancellor\u2019s Chinese jaunt, on which an extraordinary six other ministers joined him at various points, was part of a concerted strategy to paint himself as a forward-thinking free trader at ease on the world stage \u2013 and, of course, to suck up to the Chinese authorities.\u201cWe are truly entering a golden era of cooperation between our two countries, and it\u2019s crucial that businesses and communities from across the UK feel the full benefit of forging closer economic links with China,\u201d he gushed.The feeling appeared to be mutual: the Global Times, a newspaper close to the Chinese state, later praised his \u201cdiplomatic etiquette\u201d in not raising \u201cthe human rights issue\u201d. \u201cKeeping a modest manner is the correct attitude for a foreign minister visiting China to seek business opportunities,\u201d it said.And by inviting the Chinese to come and build a new nuclear facility in Essex \u2013 and providing \u00a32bn in taxpayer guarantees to underpin the Hinkley project \u2013 Osborne appeared willing to set aside not just human rights concerns but safety, national security and even a basic cost-benefit analysis in exchange for the hand of Chinese friendship.We appear to be witnessing the O\u2019Neill-isation of economic policy. The chancellor\u2019s new commercial secretary, Lord (Jim) O\u2019Neill of Gatley, the former Goldman Sachs chief economist who accompanied him last week, has two longstanding obsessions \u2013 the rise and rise of the Chinese economy, and the creation of a northern powerhouse.China\u2019s biggest export these days is not plastic toys or iPhone parts: it\u2019s deflationThrowing open a \u201cnorthern pitchbook\u201d of \u00a324bn in investment opportunities to Chinese firms last week married the two. Indeed, donating \u00a33m of taxpayers\u2019 cash to train aspiring young Chinese footballers catered for O\u2019Neill\u2019s third great enthusiasm: the beautiful game.And perhaps there\u2019s nothing wrong with deepening cultural and commercial ties with a rising global power. Yet even for the most hard-nosed defender of the argument that commercial considerations should trump ethical qualms, the chancellor\u2019s timing last week looked distinctly odd.The days when China\u2019s ascent to global economic hegemony appeared assured, its appetite for exports insatiable, are long gone. Instead, Chinese influence on today\u2019s global economy is making itself felt through a domino-tumble of devaluations, layoffs and recessions that stretches from Russia to Brazil to South Africa (all members, along with India, of the \u201cBrics\u201d group of emerging countries: an acronym coined by O\u2019Neill).World trade is shrinking as China\u2019s demand for resources wanes; global commodity prices have plunged; emerging market currencies are being hammered. Last week alone, the South African rand, the Brazilian real and the Turkish lira all hit record lows against the dollar.The notion of \u201cdecoupling\u201d, fashionable in the wake of the 2008-09 crisis, under which China and the other major emerging markets would continue to drive global growth even as the US and Europe stalled, now looks defunct.In fact, China bought its continued economic resilience in recent years at the expense of a credit-fuelled boom in infrastructure projects, which has left a legacy of bad loans and swings in property markets. Now the authorities are struggling to manage the transition from an export-dominated economy towards a \u201cnew normal\u201d of steadier, services-led growth, while coping with the consequences of the credit bubble.The recent decision to devalue the yuan in the summer, albeit by a relatively modest 4% or so, suggested they may have decided growth is slowing more sharply than they are willing to tolerate. Many analysts believe they will do it again in the coming months. As Citigroup\u2019s Willem Buiter puts it, China is \u201ca messy market economy of the state-capitalist/crony-capitalist variety, where policy ambitions are not matched with effective policy instruments and where macroeconomic management and financial crisis prevention and mitigation competence are in short supply\u201d.And in today\u2019s interconnected global economy, China\u2019s problems quickly become everyone else\u2019s problems too. The 10,000 layoffs announced last week by US manufacturer Caterpillar, whose giant trucks are used in mining, appeared to be an early sign that the consequences of waning Chinese demand are rippling out from the commodities sector into industry.Janet Yellen, the Federal Reserve chair, made clear that the US\u2019s decision not to press ahead with a widely telegraphed plan to raise interest rates in September had its roots in the turmoil in China. In effect, the Fed was acknowledging that China\u2019s economy is too fragile to withstand higher American rates. Or, to put it another way, China\u2019s downturn is doing some of the Fed\u2019s work for it \u2013 bearing down on inflation, not just in the US but in scores of countries worldwide.And that includes Britain. China\u2019s biggest export these days is not plastic toys or iPhone parts: it\u2019s deflation, and the victims are already piling up.It\u2019s hard to feel much sympathy for the billionaire bosses of commodities trader Glencore, who have seen their fortunes chipped away by the crashing price of raw materials. But as Osborne was settling himself in to the window seat on another Chinese high-speed train last week, Britain\u2019s steelmakers were gathering in London to warn the government that, without being given \u201chalf a chance\u201d, they would be forced to shut down plants and lay off thousands of workers, as they struggle to cope with what they see as the dumping of cut-price Chinese steel on the world market.Osborne may believe he is playing a canny diplomatic game, calculating that closeness to the Chinese will pay off; but his enthusiasm for selling Britain by the yuan may yet come to look ill-judged.", "tags": ["Chinese economy", "Global economy", "George Osborne", "China", "Asia Pacific", "Politics", "Business", "World news", "Economic policy", "Economics"], "title": "Everyone wants to decouple from China \u2013 except Osborne"},{"date": "2015-11-04T13:24:41Z", "country": "china", "content": "An unprecedented meeting between the leaders of China and Taiwan, arranged at short notice for Saturday in Singapore, is under fire from opposition politicians in Taipei who say it is a blatant attempt by Beijing to influence the island\u2019s forthcoming presidential and legislative elections.But the talks between Xi Jinping and Ma Ying-jeou, who is soon to retire, will also be seen as part of China\u2019s anticipated pushback following last week\u2019s high-profile American naval challenge to its island-building activities in the South China Sea. China initiated the meeting, ending more than half a century of ostracism at the highest level.China regards Taiwan as a renegade province and seeks its reunification with the mainland. But the island has enjoyed de facto independence since the Chinese civil war ended in 1949, underpinned by American military might. Like other countries in the region, Taiwan is in dispute with Beijing over claims in the South China Sea.  Related: Historic meeting of Chinese and Taiwanese presidents prompts hope and suspicion China-Taiwan tensions have eased somewhat during Ma\u2019s time in office as his nationalist party, the Kuomintang (KMT), has expanded cross-strait trade and tourism. But the number of Taiwanese favouring reunification has been steadily falling, while suspicion of Beijing\u2019s expansionist ambitions has grown. Opinion polls suggest the opposition Democratic Progressive party (DPP), led for the first time by a woman, Tsai Ing-wen, is on course to win the presidency in January when Ma stands down. The party is traditionally seen as favouring independence, or at the very least maintaining the status quo. A DPP success would undoubtedly anger Xi, who has said the Taiwan issue cannot remain unresolved indefinitely.Tsai complained that the announcement of the meeting came out of the blue. \u201cTo let the people know in such a hasty and chaotic manner is damaging to Taiwan\u2019s democracy,\u201d she said. The DPP spokesman Cheng Yun-peng said: \u201cHow can people not think of this as a political operation intended to affect the election?\u201dYet if Ma is thought to be kowtowing to Xi, the Singapore meeting could backfire by stiffening opposition to China\u2019s advances. Large-scale KMT defeats in local elections last year were attributed to a backlash, especially among younger voters, against the party\u2019s perceived cosying up to Beijing. China says it has no intention of interfering in the 16 January polls, unlike in 1996 when it launched war games to try to intimidate voters. Rejecting claims that Ma was selling out Taiwan, officials said he would make no deals, private or public, and would concentrate on promoting \u201cthe peaceful development of cross-strait relations\u201d. Since neither leader recognises the other as a head of state, the two men will address each other \u201cMr\u201d. Related: South-east Asian ministers cancel joint accord over South China Sea dispute Xi\u2019s sudden decision to meet Ma may be linked to escalating tension with the US. China claims sovereign rights in almost all the South China Sea, a vital international trade route. A meeting of Association of South-East Asian Nations (Asean) defence ministers ended in disarray this week when it failed to agree a joint communique because of the disputes.After no headway was made in talks between US and Chinese naval commanders on last week\u2019s Spratly islands incident involving a US warship, Ash Carter, the US defence secretary, pointedly took a South China Sea \u201cfreedom of navigation\u201d cruise on Thursday aboard a US aircraft carrier.On Friday in another apparent attempt to remind weaker neighbours of the importance of a good relationship with China, Xi will visit Vietnam, which is also involved in the South China Sea disputes and has clashed with Beijing over offshore oil drilling rights. Washington has been assiduously courting Hanoi as part its regional power struggle with Beijing. Observers say Xi may hope to mend fences and strengthen pro-China leadership contenders prior to Vietnam\u2019s Communist party national congress next year. ", "tags": ["China", "Taiwan", "South China Sea", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China initiates Taiwan meeting as South China Sea tensions rise"},{"date": "2015-11-04T13:24:41Z", "country": "china", "content": "An unprecedented meeting between the leaders of China and Taiwan, arranged at short notice for Saturday in Singapore, is under fire from opposition politicians in Taipei who say it is a blatant attempt by Beijing to influence the island\u2019s forthcoming presidential and legislative elections.But the talks between Xi Jinping and Ma Ying-jeou, who is soon to retire, will also be seen as part of China\u2019s anticipated pushback following last week\u2019s high-profile American naval challenge to its island-building activities in the South China Sea. China initiated the meeting, ending more than half a century of ostracism at the highest level.China regards Taiwan as a renegade province and seeks its reunification with the mainland. But the island has enjoyed de facto independence since the Chinese civil war ended in 1949, underpinned by American military might. Like other countries in the region, Taiwan is in dispute with Beijing over claims in the South China Sea.  Related: Historic meeting of Chinese and Taiwanese presidents prompts hope and suspicion China-Taiwan tensions have eased somewhat during Ma\u2019s time in office as his nationalist party, the Kuomintang (KMT), has expanded cross-strait trade and tourism. But the number of Taiwanese favouring reunification has been steadily falling, while suspicion of Beijing\u2019s expansionist ambitions has grown. Opinion polls suggest the opposition Democratic Progressive party (DPP), led for the first time by a woman, Tsai Ing-wen, is on course to win the presidency in January when Ma stands down. The party is traditionally seen as favouring independence, or at the very least maintaining the status quo. A DPP success would undoubtedly anger Xi, who has said the Taiwan issue cannot remain unresolved indefinitely.Tsai complained that the announcement of the meeting came out of the blue. \u201cTo let the people know in such a hasty and chaotic manner is damaging to Taiwan\u2019s democracy,\u201d she said. The DPP spokesman Cheng Yun-peng said: \u201cHow can people not think of this as a political operation intended to affect the election?\u201dYet if Ma is thought to be kowtowing to Xi, the Singapore meeting could backfire by stiffening opposition to China\u2019s advances. Large-scale KMT defeats in local elections last year were attributed to a backlash, especially among younger voters, against the party\u2019s perceived cosying up to Beijing. China says it has no intention of interfering in the 16 January polls, unlike in 1996 when it launched war games to try to intimidate voters. Rejecting claims that Ma was selling out Taiwan, officials said he would make no deals, private or public, and would concentrate on promoting \u201cthe peaceful development of cross-strait relations\u201d. Since neither leader recognises the other as a head of state, the two men will address each other \u201cMr\u201d. Related: South-east Asian ministers cancel joint accord over South China Sea dispute Xi\u2019s sudden decision to meet Ma may be linked to escalating tension with the US. China claims sovereign rights in almost all the South China Sea, a vital international trade route. A meeting of Association of South-East Asian Nations (Asean) defence ministers ended in disarray this week when it failed to agree a joint communique because of the disputes.After no headway was made in talks between US and Chinese naval commanders on last week\u2019s Spratly islands incident involving a US warship, Ash Carter, the US defence secretary, pointedly took a South China Sea \u201cfreedom of navigation\u201d cruise on Thursday aboard a US aircraft carrier.On Friday in another apparent attempt to remind weaker neighbours of the importance of a good relationship with China, Xi will visit Vietnam, which is also involved in the South China Sea disputes and has clashed with Beijing over offshore oil drilling rights. Washington has been assiduously courting Hanoi as part its regional power struggle with Beijing. Observers say Xi may hope to mend fences and strengthen pro-China leadership contenders prior to Vietnam\u2019s Communist party national congress next year. ", "tags": ["China", "Taiwan", "South China Sea", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China initiates Taiwan meeting as South China Sea tensions rise"},{"date": "2015-12-29T10:43:18Z", "country": "china", "content": "A new anti-terror law in China gives the government the explicit power to demand technology firms decrypt electronic messages stored on their servers, sparking concern \u2013 and confusion \u2013 from foreign companies.The law as enacted, however, falls short of a draft bill which would have required computer companies to explicitly install \u201cbackdoors\u201d on their devices, allowing the Chinese government privileged access to the users\u2019 communications.Defending the law, the Chinese government pointed to legislation proposed in Western nations, such as Britain\u2019s draft investigatory powers bill, which grants similar powers to the UK government.Speaking after China\u2019s largely rubber-stamp parliament passed the law on Sunday, Li Shouwei, deputy head of the parliament\u2019s criminal law division under the legislative affairs committee, said China was simply doing what other Western nations already do in asking technology firms to help fight terror.\u201cThis rule accords with the actual work need of fighting terrorism and is basically the same as what other major countries in the world do,\u201d Li told reporters.This will not affect the normal operation of tech companies and they have nothing to fear in terms of having backdoors installed or losing intellectual property rights, he added.Adding to the similarities between the British bill, known as the Snooper\u2019s Charter, and the Chinese legislation is the confusion they have sparked amongst tech firms. China\u2019s law is vague about what, exactly, will be demanded when it comes to breaking encryption, and Recode\u2019s Dawn Chmielewski writes that \u201cit could take six months for regulations to emerge that make the government\u2019s intent clear.\u201dThe British bill has faced criticism from a number of technology companies for its anti-encryption stances. In December, Apple explicitly appealed to the government to rethink the law, arguing that \u201cit would be wrong to weaken security for hundreds of millions of law-abiding customers so that it will also be weaker for the very few who pose a threat\u201d. Technology firms have warned that where Britain leads, nations with weaker human rights records may follow, citing the UK\u2019s example before cracking down on protected communications in their own nations.China\u2019s new law also restricts the right of media to report on details of terror attacks, including a provision that media and social media cannot report on details of terror activities that might lead to imitation, nor show scenes that are \u201ccruel and inhuman\u201d.", "tags": ["Encryption", "China", "Technology", "Surveillance", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China introduces its own 'snooper's charter'"},{"date": "2015-11-04T13:24:41Z", "country": "china", "content": "An unprecedented meeting between the leaders of China and Taiwan, arranged at short notice for Saturday in Singapore, is under fire from opposition politicians in Taipei who say it is a blatant attempt by Beijing to influence the island\u2019s forthcoming presidential and legislative elections.But the talks between Xi Jinping and Ma Ying-jeou, who is soon to retire, will also be seen as part of China\u2019s anticipated pushback following last week\u2019s high-profile American naval challenge to its island-building activities in the South China Sea. China initiated the meeting, ending more than half a century of ostracism at the highest level.China regards Taiwan as a renegade province and seeks its reunification with the mainland. But the island has enjoyed de facto independence since the Chinese civil war ended in 1949, underpinned by American military might. Like other countries in the region, Taiwan is in dispute with Beijing over claims in the South China Sea.  Related: Historic meeting of Chinese and Taiwanese presidents prompts hope and suspicion China-Taiwan tensions have eased somewhat during Ma\u2019s time in office as his nationalist party, the Kuomintang (KMT), has expanded cross-strait trade and tourism. But the number of Taiwanese favouring reunification has been steadily falling, while suspicion of Beijing\u2019s expansionist ambitions has grown. Opinion polls suggest the opposition Democratic Progressive party (DPP), led for the first time by a woman, Tsai Ing-wen, is on course to win the presidency in January when Ma stands down. The party is traditionally seen as favouring independence, or at the very least maintaining the status quo. A DPP success would undoubtedly anger Xi, who has said the Taiwan issue cannot remain unresolved indefinitely.Tsai complained that the announcement of the meeting came out of the blue. \u201cTo let the people know in such a hasty and chaotic manner is damaging to Taiwan\u2019s democracy,\u201d she said. The DPP spokesman Cheng Yun-peng said: \u201cHow can people not think of this as a political operation intended to affect the election?\u201dYet if Ma is thought to be kowtowing to Xi, the Singapore meeting could backfire by stiffening opposition to China\u2019s advances. Large-scale KMT defeats in local elections last year were attributed to a backlash, especially among younger voters, against the party\u2019s perceived cosying up to Beijing. China says it has no intention of interfering in the 16 January polls, unlike in 1996 when it launched war games to try to intimidate voters. Rejecting claims that Ma was selling out Taiwan, officials said he would make no deals, private or public, and would concentrate on promoting \u201cthe peaceful development of cross-strait relations\u201d. Since neither leader recognises the other as a head of state, the two men will address each other \u201cMr\u201d. Related: South-east Asian ministers cancel joint accord over South China Sea dispute Xi\u2019s sudden decision to meet Ma may be linked to escalating tension with the US. China claims sovereign rights in almost all the South China Sea, a vital international trade route. A meeting of Association of South-East Asian Nations (Asean) defence ministers ended in disarray this week when it failed to agree a joint communique because of the disputes.After no headway was made in talks between US and Chinese naval commanders on last week\u2019s Spratly islands incident involving a US warship, Ash Carter, the US defence secretary, pointedly took a South China Sea \u201cfreedom of navigation\u201d cruise on Thursday aboard a US aircraft carrier.On Friday in another apparent attempt to remind weaker neighbours of the importance of a good relationship with China, Xi will visit Vietnam, which is also involved in the South China Sea disputes and has clashed with Beijing over offshore oil drilling rights. Washington has been assiduously courting Hanoi as part its regional power struggle with Beijing. Observers say Xi may hope to mend fences and strengthen pro-China leadership contenders prior to Vietnam\u2019s Communist party national congress next year. ", "tags": ["China", "Taiwan", "South China Sea", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China initiates Taiwan meeting as South China Sea tensions rise"},{"date": "2015-12-29T10:43:18Z", "country": "china", "content": "A new anti-terror law in China gives the government the explicit power to demand technology firms decrypt electronic messages stored on their servers, sparking concern \u2013 and confusion \u2013 from foreign companies.The law as enacted, however, falls short of a draft bill which would have required computer companies to explicitly install \u201cbackdoors\u201d on their devices, allowing the Chinese government privileged access to the users\u2019 communications.Defending the law, the Chinese government pointed to legislation proposed in Western nations, such as Britain\u2019s draft investigatory powers bill, which grants similar powers to the UK government.Speaking after China\u2019s largely rubber-stamp parliament passed the law on Sunday, Li Shouwei, deputy head of the parliament\u2019s criminal law division under the legislative affairs committee, said China was simply doing what other Western nations already do in asking technology firms to help fight terror.\u201cThis rule accords with the actual work need of fighting terrorism and is basically the same as what other major countries in the world do,\u201d Li told reporters.This will not affect the normal operation of tech companies and they have nothing to fear in terms of having backdoors installed or losing intellectual property rights, he added.Adding to the similarities between the British bill, known as the Snooper\u2019s Charter, and the Chinese legislation is the confusion they have sparked amongst tech firms. China\u2019s law is vague about what, exactly, will be demanded when it comes to breaking encryption, and Recode\u2019s Dawn Chmielewski writes that \u201cit could take six months for regulations to emerge that make the government\u2019s intent clear.\u201dThe British bill has faced criticism from a number of technology companies for its anti-encryption stances. In December, Apple explicitly appealed to the government to rethink the law, arguing that \u201cit would be wrong to weaken security for hundreds of millions of law-abiding customers so that it will also be weaker for the very few who pose a threat\u201d. Technology firms have warned that where Britain leads, nations with weaker human rights records may follow, citing the UK\u2019s example before cracking down on protected communications in their own nations.China\u2019s new law also restricts the right of media to report on details of terror attacks, including a provision that media and social media cannot report on details of terror activities that might lead to imitation, nor show scenes that are \u201ccruel and inhuman\u201d.", "tags": ["Encryption", "China", "Technology", "Surveillance", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China introduces its own 'snooper's charter'"},{"date": "2015-10-06T12:21:47Z", "country": "china", "content": "\u201cThere\u2019s a bit of a British attitude which treats China as a sweatshop on the Pearl River,\u201d George Osborne opined during a trip to the world\u2019s second largest economy in 2013.\u201cOne of the things I\u2019m trying to do this week in China is change British attitudes,\u201d he said.The chancellor\u2019s message appears to have eluded the health secretary, Jeremy Hunt. On Tuesday, citing his Chinese wife as inspiration, Hunt suggested Britons needed to pull up their socks and work hard \u201cin the way that Asian economies are prepared to work hard\u201d. Related: Hunt: tax credit cuts will make Britons work like Chinese or Americans The answer, as might be expected in a country with more than 760 million workers, is complex.The average Chinese worker puts in somewhere between 2,000 and 2,200 hours each year, Wang Qi, a researcher at Beijing Normal University, told the Wall Street Journal last year.That compares to a UK average of 1,677 hours last year, according to figures from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development.But Chinese work hours have been falling for at least three decades, said Li Chang\u2019an, a labour economist at Beijing\u2019s University of International Business and Economics. \u201cSince the 1980s and 1990s, Chinese workers have been working shorter and shorter hours,\u201d Li said, pointing to improved labour laws, improved productivity and the introduction of two-day weekends.\u201cWe visit many factories every year,\u201d Li added. \u201cIn most, working conditions are improving [and] salaries increasing while working hours are decreasing.\u201dPerhaps unsurprisingly, China\u2019s hardest grafters are its impoverished and often exploited migrant workers, the Wall Street Journal found.China\u2019s average migrant worker worked 8.8 hours each day in 2013, it claimed, citing official statistics. Nearly 85% of migrants worked more than 44 hours a week, earning an average of just \u00a3270 per month.The consequences of such relentless work can be dire. Reports in China\u2019s state-run media last year claimed that a staggering 600,000 citizens were dying from over-work each year.A 2012 editorial in the China Daily newspaper complained: \u201cEmployers cajole, persuade, goad or force their workers to work overtime because they want to perform better in China\u2019s highly competitive market to ensure that they don\u2019t go out of business.\u201dBetter-off Chinese people are suffering, too. A report by the Boston Consulting Group claimed that half of China\u2019s more affluent classes now complained of health issues stemming from \u201cwork pressures, family obligations, and long work hours\u201d.\u201cCommon complaints were insomnia, fatigue, a lack of energy, obesity, and frequent illness,\u201d it warned. \u201cThe incidence of these complaints is growing fast, especially among younger people.\u201dBut all those man-hours do not necessarily pay off. Chinese experts have urged employers to reduce workloads as a way of boosting productivity. \u201cWorking overtime is not good for workers\u2019 health and does not improve productivity and efficiency,\u201d said Li, the Beijing-based labour economist.\u201cChinese workers have to work longer hours than their peers from the more developed countries, such as the UK and US, because China\u2019s production efficiency still lags significantly far behind those countries,\u201d he said. \u201cAs we are still at the developmental stage of chasing GDP growth and increasing total production, long working hours will persist for a certain time.\u201d Additional reporting by Luna Lin", "tags": ["China", "Conservative conference 2015", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Work-life balance", "Money", "UK news", "Work & careers", "Conservatives", "Politics"], "title": "How hard does China work?"},{"date": "2015-11-04T13:24:41Z", "country": "china", "content": "An unprecedented meeting between the leaders of China and Taiwan, arranged at short notice for Saturday in Singapore, is under fire from opposition politicians in Taipei who say it is a blatant attempt by Beijing to influence the island\u2019s forthcoming presidential and legislative elections.But the talks between Xi Jinping and Ma Ying-jeou, who is soon to retire, will also be seen as part of China\u2019s anticipated pushback following last week\u2019s high-profile American naval challenge to its island-building activities in the South China Sea. China initiated the meeting, ending more than half a century of ostracism at the highest level.China regards Taiwan as a renegade province and seeks its reunification with the mainland. But the island has enjoyed de facto independence since the Chinese civil war ended in 1949, underpinned by American military might. Like other countries in the region, Taiwan is in dispute with Beijing over claims in the South China Sea.  Related: Historic meeting of Chinese and Taiwanese presidents prompts hope and suspicion China-Taiwan tensions have eased somewhat during Ma\u2019s time in office as his nationalist party, the Kuomintang (KMT), has expanded cross-strait trade and tourism. But the number of Taiwanese favouring reunification has been steadily falling, while suspicion of Beijing\u2019s expansionist ambitions has grown. Opinion polls suggest the opposition Democratic Progressive party (DPP), led for the first time by a woman, Tsai Ing-wen, is on course to win the presidency in January when Ma stands down. The party is traditionally seen as favouring independence, or at the very least maintaining the status quo. A DPP success would undoubtedly anger Xi, who has said the Taiwan issue cannot remain unresolved indefinitely.Tsai complained that the announcement of the meeting came out of the blue. \u201cTo let the people know in such a hasty and chaotic manner is damaging to Taiwan\u2019s democracy,\u201d she said. The DPP spokesman Cheng Yun-peng said: \u201cHow can people not think of this as a political operation intended to affect the election?\u201dYet if Ma is thought to be kowtowing to Xi, the Singapore meeting could backfire by stiffening opposition to China\u2019s advances. Large-scale KMT defeats in local elections last year were attributed to a backlash, especially among younger voters, against the party\u2019s perceived cosying up to Beijing. China says it has no intention of interfering in the 16 January polls, unlike in 1996 when it launched war games to try to intimidate voters. Rejecting claims that Ma was selling out Taiwan, officials said he would make no deals, private or public, and would concentrate on promoting \u201cthe peaceful development of cross-strait relations\u201d. Since neither leader recognises the other as a head of state, the two men will address each other \u201cMr\u201d. Related: South-east Asian ministers cancel joint accord over South China Sea dispute Xi\u2019s sudden decision to meet Ma may be linked to escalating tension with the US. China claims sovereign rights in almost all the South China Sea, a vital international trade route. A meeting of Association of South-East Asian Nations (Asean) defence ministers ended in disarray this week when it failed to agree a joint communique because of the disputes.After no headway was made in talks between US and Chinese naval commanders on last week\u2019s Spratly islands incident involving a US warship, Ash Carter, the US defence secretary, pointedly took a South China Sea \u201cfreedom of navigation\u201d cruise on Thursday aboard a US aircraft carrier.On Friday in another apparent attempt to remind weaker neighbours of the importance of a good relationship with China, Xi will visit Vietnam, which is also involved in the South China Sea disputes and has clashed with Beijing over offshore oil drilling rights. Washington has been assiduously courting Hanoi as part its regional power struggle with Beijing. Observers say Xi may hope to mend fences and strengthen pro-China leadership contenders prior to Vietnam\u2019s Communist party national congress next year. ", "tags": ["China", "Taiwan", "South China Sea", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China initiates Taiwan meeting as South China Sea tensions rise"},{"date": "2015-12-29T10:43:18Z", "country": "china", "content": "A new anti-terror law in China gives the government the explicit power to demand technology firms decrypt electronic messages stored on their servers, sparking concern \u2013 and confusion \u2013 from foreign companies.The law as enacted, however, falls short of a draft bill which would have required computer companies to explicitly install \u201cbackdoors\u201d on their devices, allowing the Chinese government privileged access to the users\u2019 communications.Defending the law, the Chinese government pointed to legislation proposed in Western nations, such as Britain\u2019s draft investigatory powers bill, which grants similar powers to the UK government.Speaking after China\u2019s largely rubber-stamp parliament passed the law on Sunday, Li Shouwei, deputy head of the parliament\u2019s criminal law division under the legislative affairs committee, said China was simply doing what other Western nations already do in asking technology firms to help fight terror.\u201cThis rule accords with the actual work need of fighting terrorism and is basically the same as what other major countries in the world do,\u201d Li told reporters.This will not affect the normal operation of tech companies and they have nothing to fear in terms of having backdoors installed or losing intellectual property rights, he added.Adding to the similarities between the British bill, known as the Snooper\u2019s Charter, and the Chinese legislation is the confusion they have sparked amongst tech firms. China\u2019s law is vague about what, exactly, will be demanded when it comes to breaking encryption, and Recode\u2019s Dawn Chmielewski writes that \u201cit could take six months for regulations to emerge that make the government\u2019s intent clear.\u201dThe British bill has faced criticism from a number of technology companies for its anti-encryption stances. In December, Apple explicitly appealed to the government to rethink the law, arguing that \u201cit would be wrong to weaken security for hundreds of millions of law-abiding customers so that it will also be weaker for the very few who pose a threat\u201d. Technology firms have warned that where Britain leads, nations with weaker human rights records may follow, citing the UK\u2019s example before cracking down on protected communications in their own nations.China\u2019s new law also restricts the right of media to report on details of terror attacks, including a provision that media and social media cannot report on details of terror activities that might lead to imitation, nor show scenes that are \u201ccruel and inhuman\u201d.", "tags": ["Encryption", "China", "Technology", "Surveillance", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China introduces its own 'snooper's charter'"},{"date": "2015-10-06T12:21:47Z", "country": "china", "content": "\u201cThere\u2019s a bit of a British attitude which treats China as a sweatshop on the Pearl River,\u201d George Osborne opined during a trip to the world\u2019s second largest economy in 2013.\u201cOne of the things I\u2019m trying to do this week in China is change British attitudes,\u201d he said.The chancellor\u2019s message appears to have eluded the health secretary, Jeremy Hunt. On Tuesday, citing his Chinese wife as inspiration, Hunt suggested Britons needed to pull up their socks and work hard \u201cin the way that Asian economies are prepared to work hard\u201d. Related: Hunt: tax credit cuts will make Britons work like Chinese or Americans The answer, as might be expected in a country with more than 760 million workers, is complex.The average Chinese worker puts in somewhere between 2,000 and 2,200 hours each year, Wang Qi, a researcher at Beijing Normal University, told the Wall Street Journal last year.That compares to a UK average of 1,677 hours last year, according to figures from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development.But Chinese work hours have been falling for at least three decades, said Li Chang\u2019an, a labour economist at Beijing\u2019s University of International Business and Economics. \u201cSince the 1980s and 1990s, Chinese workers have been working shorter and shorter hours,\u201d Li said, pointing to improved labour laws, improved productivity and the introduction of two-day weekends.\u201cWe visit many factories every year,\u201d Li added. \u201cIn most, working conditions are improving [and] salaries increasing while working hours are decreasing.\u201dPerhaps unsurprisingly, China\u2019s hardest grafters are its impoverished and often exploited migrant workers, the Wall Street Journal found.China\u2019s average migrant worker worked 8.8 hours each day in 2013, it claimed, citing official statistics. Nearly 85% of migrants worked more than 44 hours a week, earning an average of just \u00a3270 per month.The consequences of such relentless work can be dire. Reports in China\u2019s state-run media last year claimed that a staggering 600,000 citizens were dying from over-work each year.A 2012 editorial in the China Daily newspaper complained: \u201cEmployers cajole, persuade, goad or force their workers to work overtime because they want to perform better in China\u2019s highly competitive market to ensure that they don\u2019t go out of business.\u201dBetter-off Chinese people are suffering, too. A report by the Boston Consulting Group claimed that half of China\u2019s more affluent classes now complained of health issues stemming from \u201cwork pressures, family obligations, and long work hours\u201d.\u201cCommon complaints were insomnia, fatigue, a lack of energy, obesity, and frequent illness,\u201d it warned. \u201cThe incidence of these complaints is growing fast, especially among younger people.\u201dBut all those man-hours do not necessarily pay off. Chinese experts have urged employers to reduce workloads as a way of boosting productivity. \u201cWorking overtime is not good for workers\u2019 health and does not improve productivity and efficiency,\u201d said Li, the Beijing-based labour economist.\u201cChinese workers have to work longer hours than their peers from the more developed countries, such as the UK and US, because China\u2019s production efficiency still lags significantly far behind those countries,\u201d he said. \u201cAs we are still at the developmental stage of chasing GDP growth and increasing total production, long working hours will persist for a certain time.\u201d Additional reporting by Luna Lin", "tags": ["China", "Conservative conference 2015", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Work-life balance", "Money", "UK news", "Work & careers", "Conservatives", "Politics"], "title": "How hard does China work?"},{"date": "2015-12-23T09:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "After a strange turn of events, Zanna and her best friend Deeba follow the trail of a broken umbrella to a wheel. Once the wheel is turned, the two girls find themselves in a strange place called Un Lun Dun \u2013 the place where all of the lost and broken things of London end up. Its here they find flying buses, a bridge that leads to anywhere and a group of people who live on the roofs that aren\u2019t all they seem. Not to mention the evil Smog, a giant cloud of pollution that threatens to overtake the entire abcity. (That\u2019s what Un Lun Dun is. There are others, like Helsunki, Romeless, Lost Angeles, Sans Francisco and No York, to name a few.)This book was a genius piece of fiction. The illustrations (drawn also by Mieville) showed just how strange and brilliant this world was (it must be good \u2013 it has a library so big that you need explorers to go in and find the book you want). I loved every single tiny detail of the descriptions and the drawings and the crazy characters that make up a motley bunch of main characters. I have to say, my personal favourite is the milk carton named Curdle!With Un Lun Dun, Mieville created an adventurous, exciting book without the romance and gory details that line so many teen bookshelves today. It was relaxing and enjoyable without rambling on or becoming tedious. I was hanging on to every play-on words.Definitely one of the best books I have read in a long while.", "tags": ["Children and teenagers", "Teen books", "Books", "Culture", "Children's fantasy books (children's and teens)", "China Mi\u00e9ville"], "title": "Un Lun Dun by China Mi\u00e9ville \u2013 review"},{"date": "2015-11-04T13:24:41Z", "country": "china", "content": "An unprecedented meeting between the leaders of China and Taiwan, arranged at short notice for Saturday in Singapore, is under fire from opposition politicians in Taipei who say it is a blatant attempt by Beijing to influence the island\u2019s forthcoming presidential and legislative elections.But the talks between Xi Jinping and Ma Ying-jeou, who is soon to retire, will also be seen as part of China\u2019s anticipated pushback following last week\u2019s high-profile American naval challenge to its island-building activities in the South China Sea. China initiated the meeting, ending more than half a century of ostracism at the highest level.China regards Taiwan as a renegade province and seeks its reunification with the mainland. But the island has enjoyed de facto independence since the Chinese civil war ended in 1949, underpinned by American military might. Like other countries in the region, Taiwan is in dispute with Beijing over claims in the South China Sea.  Related: Historic meeting of Chinese and Taiwanese presidents prompts hope and suspicion China-Taiwan tensions have eased somewhat during Ma\u2019s time in office as his nationalist party, the Kuomintang (KMT), has expanded cross-strait trade and tourism. But the number of Taiwanese favouring reunification has been steadily falling, while suspicion of Beijing\u2019s expansionist ambitions has grown. Opinion polls suggest the opposition Democratic Progressive party (DPP), led for the first time by a woman, Tsai Ing-wen, is on course to win the presidency in January when Ma stands down. The party is traditionally seen as favouring independence, or at the very least maintaining the status quo. A DPP success would undoubtedly anger Xi, who has said the Taiwan issue cannot remain unresolved indefinitely.Tsai complained that the announcement of the meeting came out of the blue. \u201cTo let the people know in such a hasty and chaotic manner is damaging to Taiwan\u2019s democracy,\u201d she said. The DPP spokesman Cheng Yun-peng said: \u201cHow can people not think of this as a political operation intended to affect the election?\u201dYet if Ma is thought to be kowtowing to Xi, the Singapore meeting could backfire by stiffening opposition to China\u2019s advances. Large-scale KMT defeats in local elections last year were attributed to a backlash, especially among younger voters, against the party\u2019s perceived cosying up to Beijing. China says it has no intention of interfering in the 16 January polls, unlike in 1996 when it launched war games to try to intimidate voters. Rejecting claims that Ma was selling out Taiwan, officials said he would make no deals, private or public, and would concentrate on promoting \u201cthe peaceful development of cross-strait relations\u201d. Since neither leader recognises the other as a head of state, the two men will address each other \u201cMr\u201d. Related: South-east Asian ministers cancel joint accord over South China Sea dispute Xi\u2019s sudden decision to meet Ma may be linked to escalating tension with the US. China claims sovereign rights in almost all the South China Sea, a vital international trade route. A meeting of Association of South-East Asian Nations (Asean) defence ministers ended in disarray this week when it failed to agree a joint communique because of the disputes.After no headway was made in talks between US and Chinese naval commanders on last week\u2019s Spratly islands incident involving a US warship, Ash Carter, the US defence secretary, pointedly took a South China Sea \u201cfreedom of navigation\u201d cruise on Thursday aboard a US aircraft carrier.On Friday in another apparent attempt to remind weaker neighbours of the importance of a good relationship with China, Xi will visit Vietnam, which is also involved in the South China Sea disputes and has clashed with Beijing over offshore oil drilling rights. Washington has been assiduously courting Hanoi as part its regional power struggle with Beijing. Observers say Xi may hope to mend fences and strengthen pro-China leadership contenders prior to Vietnam\u2019s Communist party national congress next year. ", "tags": ["China", "Taiwan", "South China Sea", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China initiates Taiwan meeting as South China Sea tensions rise"},{"date": "2015-12-29T10:43:18Z", "country": "china", "content": "A new anti-terror law in China gives the government the explicit power to demand technology firms decrypt electronic messages stored on their servers, sparking concern \u2013 and confusion \u2013 from foreign companies.The law as enacted, however, falls short of a draft bill which would have required computer companies to explicitly install \u201cbackdoors\u201d on their devices, allowing the Chinese government privileged access to the users\u2019 communications.Defending the law, the Chinese government pointed to legislation proposed in Western nations, such as Britain\u2019s draft investigatory powers bill, which grants similar powers to the UK government.Speaking after China\u2019s largely rubber-stamp parliament passed the law on Sunday, Li Shouwei, deputy head of the parliament\u2019s criminal law division under the legislative affairs committee, said China was simply doing what other Western nations already do in asking technology firms to help fight terror.\u201cThis rule accords with the actual work need of fighting terrorism and is basically the same as what other major countries in the world do,\u201d Li told reporters.This will not affect the normal operation of tech companies and they have nothing to fear in terms of having backdoors installed or losing intellectual property rights, he added.Adding to the similarities between the British bill, known as the Snooper\u2019s Charter, and the Chinese legislation is the confusion they have sparked amongst tech firms. China\u2019s law is vague about what, exactly, will be demanded when it comes to breaking encryption, and Recode\u2019s Dawn Chmielewski writes that \u201cit could take six months for regulations to emerge that make the government\u2019s intent clear.\u201dThe British bill has faced criticism from a number of technology companies for its anti-encryption stances. In December, Apple explicitly appealed to the government to rethink the law, arguing that \u201cit would be wrong to weaken security for hundreds of millions of law-abiding customers so that it will also be weaker for the very few who pose a threat\u201d. Technology firms have warned that where Britain leads, nations with weaker human rights records may follow, citing the UK\u2019s example before cracking down on protected communications in their own nations.China\u2019s new law also restricts the right of media to report on details of terror attacks, including a provision that media and social media cannot report on details of terror activities that might lead to imitation, nor show scenes that are \u201ccruel and inhuman\u201d.", "tags": ["Encryption", "China", "Technology", "Surveillance", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China introduces its own 'snooper's charter'"},{"date": "2015-10-06T12:21:47Z", "country": "china", "content": "\u201cThere\u2019s a bit of a British attitude which treats China as a sweatshop on the Pearl River,\u201d George Osborne opined during a trip to the world\u2019s second largest economy in 2013.\u201cOne of the things I\u2019m trying to do this week in China is change British attitudes,\u201d he said.The chancellor\u2019s message appears to have eluded the health secretary, Jeremy Hunt. On Tuesday, citing his Chinese wife as inspiration, Hunt suggested Britons needed to pull up their socks and work hard \u201cin the way that Asian economies are prepared to work hard\u201d. Related: Hunt: tax credit cuts will make Britons work like Chinese or Americans The answer, as might be expected in a country with more than 760 million workers, is complex.The average Chinese worker puts in somewhere between 2,000 and 2,200 hours each year, Wang Qi, a researcher at Beijing Normal University, told the Wall Street Journal last year.That compares to a UK average of 1,677 hours last year, according to figures from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development.But Chinese work hours have been falling for at least three decades, said Li Chang\u2019an, a labour economist at Beijing\u2019s University of International Business and Economics. \u201cSince the 1980s and 1990s, Chinese workers have been working shorter and shorter hours,\u201d Li said, pointing to improved labour laws, improved productivity and the introduction of two-day weekends.\u201cWe visit many factories every year,\u201d Li added. \u201cIn most, working conditions are improving [and] salaries increasing while working hours are decreasing.\u201dPerhaps unsurprisingly, China\u2019s hardest grafters are its impoverished and often exploited migrant workers, the Wall Street Journal found.China\u2019s average migrant worker worked 8.8 hours each day in 2013, it claimed, citing official statistics. Nearly 85% of migrants worked more than 44 hours a week, earning an average of just \u00a3270 per month.The consequences of such relentless work can be dire. Reports in China\u2019s state-run media last year claimed that a staggering 600,000 citizens were dying from over-work each year.A 2012 editorial in the China Daily newspaper complained: \u201cEmployers cajole, persuade, goad or force their workers to work overtime because they want to perform better in China\u2019s highly competitive market to ensure that they don\u2019t go out of business.\u201dBetter-off Chinese people are suffering, too. A report by the Boston Consulting Group claimed that half of China\u2019s more affluent classes now complained of health issues stemming from \u201cwork pressures, family obligations, and long work hours\u201d.\u201cCommon complaints were insomnia, fatigue, a lack of energy, obesity, and frequent illness,\u201d it warned. \u201cThe incidence of these complaints is growing fast, especially among younger people.\u201dBut all those man-hours do not necessarily pay off. Chinese experts have urged employers to reduce workloads as a way of boosting productivity. \u201cWorking overtime is not good for workers\u2019 health and does not improve productivity and efficiency,\u201d said Li, the Beijing-based labour economist.\u201cChinese workers have to work longer hours than their peers from the more developed countries, such as the UK and US, because China\u2019s production efficiency still lags significantly far behind those countries,\u201d he said. \u201cAs we are still at the developmental stage of chasing GDP growth and increasing total production, long working hours will persist for a certain time.\u201d Additional reporting by Luna Lin", "tags": ["China", "Conservative conference 2015", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Work-life balance", "Money", "UK news", "Work & careers", "Conservatives", "Politics"], "title": "How hard does China work?"},{"date": "2015-12-23T09:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "After a strange turn of events, Zanna and her best friend Deeba follow the trail of a broken umbrella to a wheel. Once the wheel is turned, the two girls find themselves in a strange place called Un Lun Dun \u2013 the place where all of the lost and broken things of London end up. Its here they find flying buses, a bridge that leads to anywhere and a group of people who live on the roofs that aren\u2019t all they seem. Not to mention the evil Smog, a giant cloud of pollution that threatens to overtake the entire abcity. (That\u2019s what Un Lun Dun is. There are others, like Helsunki, Romeless, Lost Angeles, Sans Francisco and No York, to name a few.)This book was a genius piece of fiction. The illustrations (drawn also by Mieville) showed just how strange and brilliant this world was (it must be good \u2013 it has a library so big that you need explorers to go in and find the book you want). I loved every single tiny detail of the descriptions and the drawings and the crazy characters that make up a motley bunch of main characters. I have to say, my personal favourite is the milk carton named Curdle!With Un Lun Dun, Mieville created an adventurous, exciting book without the romance and gory details that line so many teen bookshelves today. It was relaxing and enjoyable without rambling on or becoming tedious. I was hanging on to every play-on words.Definitely one of the best books I have read in a long while.", "tags": ["Children and teenagers", "Teen books", "Books", "Culture", "Children's fantasy books (children's and teens)", "China Mi\u00e9ville"], "title": "Un Lun Dun by China Mi\u00e9ville \u2013 review"},{"date": "2015-11-20T08:00:05Z", "country": "china", "content": "The Chinese version of Top Gear has been watched by more than 200 million viewers on TV and online, with the most popular episode to date the presenters racing across England, in vehicles including a tank, to attend a football match.The second series of the Chinese version of the BBC\u2019s Top Gear, with a Taiwanese actor-singer, a TV host and a former top executive at an internet firm taking the place of the, now former, British hosts Jeremy Clarkson, James May and Richard Hammond, launched on pay-TV cable and satellite service Shanghai Dragon TV on 19 October.The series, which airs across China and Taiwan, has so far attracted an average TV audience to date of 9 million viewers tuning into the first scheduled broadcast of each episode.The fifth and most recent episode \u2013 in which the presenters race across the UK in vehicles not available in China in a battle for a single ticket to Manchester United v Everton \u2013 attracted a series high 11 million viewers.The TV viewing has been amplified by a huge online audience of 173 million across the series so far, aggregating figures from China\u2019s eight biggest video platforms including Tencent, Youku, Tudou, Sohu, Iqiyi and Baofeng.Paul Dempsey, president of global markets at BBC Worldwide, used the success in China to highlight the strength of the Top Gear franchise.Some observers question whether the loss of Clarkson, Hammond and May may damage the popularity and sales potential of the overall brand which makes about \u00a350m in revenues annually.\u201cThe success of Top Gear in China once again demonstrates the unique appeal of the world\u2019s favourite motoring entertainment show,\u201d said Dempsey. \u201cIt\u2019s also testament to a successful collaboration between our own UK producers and their Chinese counterparts who have recreated a British institution for a whole new audience.\u201dThe collaboration was perhaps not so successful for series one, which averaged about half the TV viewing and drew only 33 million online viewers in total, with all three hosts changed and elements of the format of the show overhauled for the second series.The BBC also gave the second series a major marketing push with a 30ft high \u201cBig Stig\u201d given a \u201cChinese visa\u201d for six months to tour 10 cities across China.The local hosts will appear in a Chinese version of Top Gear Live, the arena event affiliated with the TV show, scheduled for Shanghai next spring.The new-look British version of the hit BBC2 motoring show will debut next year with DJ and TV presenter Chris Evans as the lead host.The success of Top Gear has outstripped that of the third series of Sherlock, although the show has less China-wide appeal as it is the English version, which notched up about 100 million views online.Subtitled episodes of Downton Abbey are reportedly watched by 160 million viewers, while US show The Big Bang Theory, supposedly the most popular foreign show in China, has been viewed more than 1.5bn times on video sites.The biggest hits in China have been versions of entertainment shows such as China\u2019s Got Talent, a local version of Simon Cowell\u2019s ITV programme, for which viewing fihgures top 400 million an episode.", "tags": ["BBC Worldwide", "BBC", "Media", "Television industry", "China", "World news", "Taiwan", "Top Gear", "Television", "Culture", "Digital media"], "title": "Top Gear China attracts 200 million viewers"},{"date": "2015-11-04T13:24:41Z", "country": "china", "content": "An unprecedented meeting between the leaders of China and Taiwan, arranged at short notice for Saturday in Singapore, is under fire from opposition politicians in Taipei who say it is a blatant attempt by Beijing to influence the island\u2019s forthcoming presidential and legislative elections.But the talks between Xi Jinping and Ma Ying-jeou, who is soon to retire, will also be seen as part of China\u2019s anticipated pushback following last week\u2019s high-profile American naval challenge to its island-building activities in the South China Sea. China initiated the meeting, ending more than half a century of ostracism at the highest level.China regards Taiwan as a renegade province and seeks its reunification with the mainland. But the island has enjoyed de facto independence since the Chinese civil war ended in 1949, underpinned by American military might. Like other countries in the region, Taiwan is in dispute with Beijing over claims in the South China Sea.  Related: Historic meeting of Chinese and Taiwanese presidents prompts hope and suspicion China-Taiwan tensions have eased somewhat during Ma\u2019s time in office as his nationalist party, the Kuomintang (KMT), has expanded cross-strait trade and tourism. But the number of Taiwanese favouring reunification has been steadily falling, while suspicion of Beijing\u2019s expansionist ambitions has grown. Opinion polls suggest the opposition Democratic Progressive party (DPP), led for the first time by a woman, Tsai Ing-wen, is on course to win the presidency in January when Ma stands down. The party is traditionally seen as favouring independence, or at the very least maintaining the status quo. A DPP success would undoubtedly anger Xi, who has said the Taiwan issue cannot remain unresolved indefinitely.Tsai complained that the announcement of the meeting came out of the blue. \u201cTo let the people know in such a hasty and chaotic manner is damaging to Taiwan\u2019s democracy,\u201d she said. The DPP spokesman Cheng Yun-peng said: \u201cHow can people not think of this as a political operation intended to affect the election?\u201dYet if Ma is thought to be kowtowing to Xi, the Singapore meeting could backfire by stiffening opposition to China\u2019s advances. Large-scale KMT defeats in local elections last year were attributed to a backlash, especially among younger voters, against the party\u2019s perceived cosying up to Beijing. China says it has no intention of interfering in the 16 January polls, unlike in 1996 when it launched war games to try to intimidate voters. Rejecting claims that Ma was selling out Taiwan, officials said he would make no deals, private or public, and would concentrate on promoting \u201cthe peaceful development of cross-strait relations\u201d. Since neither leader recognises the other as a head of state, the two men will address each other \u201cMr\u201d. Related: South-east Asian ministers cancel joint accord over South China Sea dispute Xi\u2019s sudden decision to meet Ma may be linked to escalating tension with the US. China claims sovereign rights in almost all the South China Sea, a vital international trade route. A meeting of Association of South-East Asian Nations (Asean) defence ministers ended in disarray this week when it failed to agree a joint communique because of the disputes.After no headway was made in talks between US and Chinese naval commanders on last week\u2019s Spratly islands incident involving a US warship, Ash Carter, the US defence secretary, pointedly took a South China Sea \u201cfreedom of navigation\u201d cruise on Thursday aboard a US aircraft carrier.On Friday in another apparent attempt to remind weaker neighbours of the importance of a good relationship with China, Xi will visit Vietnam, which is also involved in the South China Sea disputes and has clashed with Beijing over offshore oil drilling rights. Washington has been assiduously courting Hanoi as part its regional power struggle with Beijing. Observers say Xi may hope to mend fences and strengthen pro-China leadership contenders prior to Vietnam\u2019s Communist party national congress next year. ", "tags": ["China", "Taiwan", "South China Sea", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China initiates Taiwan meeting as South China Sea tensions rise"},{"date": "2015-12-29T10:43:18Z", "country": "china", "content": "A new anti-terror law in China gives the government the explicit power to demand technology firms decrypt electronic messages stored on their servers, sparking concern \u2013 and confusion \u2013 from foreign companies.The law as enacted, however, falls short of a draft bill which would have required computer companies to explicitly install \u201cbackdoors\u201d on their devices, allowing the Chinese government privileged access to the users\u2019 communications.Defending the law, the Chinese government pointed to legislation proposed in Western nations, such as Britain\u2019s draft investigatory powers bill, which grants similar powers to the UK government.Speaking after China\u2019s largely rubber-stamp parliament passed the law on Sunday, Li Shouwei, deputy head of the parliament\u2019s criminal law division under the legislative affairs committee, said China was simply doing what other Western nations already do in asking technology firms to help fight terror.\u201cThis rule accords with the actual work need of fighting terrorism and is basically the same as what other major countries in the world do,\u201d Li told reporters.This will not affect the normal operation of tech companies and they have nothing to fear in terms of having backdoors installed or losing intellectual property rights, he added.Adding to the similarities between the British bill, known as the Snooper\u2019s Charter, and the Chinese legislation is the confusion they have sparked amongst tech firms. China\u2019s law is vague about what, exactly, will be demanded when it comes to breaking encryption, and Recode\u2019s Dawn Chmielewski writes that \u201cit could take six months for regulations to emerge that make the government\u2019s intent clear.\u201dThe British bill has faced criticism from a number of technology companies for its anti-encryption stances. In December, Apple explicitly appealed to the government to rethink the law, arguing that \u201cit would be wrong to weaken security for hundreds of millions of law-abiding customers so that it will also be weaker for the very few who pose a threat\u201d. Technology firms have warned that where Britain leads, nations with weaker human rights records may follow, citing the UK\u2019s example before cracking down on protected communications in their own nations.China\u2019s new law also restricts the right of media to report on details of terror attacks, including a provision that media and social media cannot report on details of terror activities that might lead to imitation, nor show scenes that are \u201ccruel and inhuman\u201d.", "tags": ["Encryption", "China", "Technology", "Surveillance", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China introduces its own 'snooper's charter'"},{"date": "2015-10-06T12:21:47Z", "country": "china", "content": "\u201cThere\u2019s a bit of a British attitude which treats China as a sweatshop on the Pearl River,\u201d George Osborne opined during a trip to the world\u2019s second largest economy in 2013.\u201cOne of the things I\u2019m trying to do this week in China is change British attitudes,\u201d he said.The chancellor\u2019s message appears to have eluded the health secretary, Jeremy Hunt. On Tuesday, citing his Chinese wife as inspiration, Hunt suggested Britons needed to pull up their socks and work hard \u201cin the way that Asian economies are prepared to work hard\u201d. Related: Hunt: tax credit cuts will make Britons work like Chinese or Americans The answer, as might be expected in a country with more than 760 million workers, is complex.The average Chinese worker puts in somewhere between 2,000 and 2,200 hours each year, Wang Qi, a researcher at Beijing Normal University, told the Wall Street Journal last year.That compares to a UK average of 1,677 hours last year, according to figures from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development.But Chinese work hours have been falling for at least three decades, said Li Chang\u2019an, a labour economist at Beijing\u2019s University of International Business and Economics. \u201cSince the 1980s and 1990s, Chinese workers have been working shorter and shorter hours,\u201d Li said, pointing to improved labour laws, improved productivity and the introduction of two-day weekends.\u201cWe visit many factories every year,\u201d Li added. \u201cIn most, working conditions are improving [and] salaries increasing while working hours are decreasing.\u201dPerhaps unsurprisingly, China\u2019s hardest grafters are its impoverished and often exploited migrant workers, the Wall Street Journal found.China\u2019s average migrant worker worked 8.8 hours each day in 2013, it claimed, citing official statistics. Nearly 85% of migrants worked more than 44 hours a week, earning an average of just \u00a3270 per month.The consequences of such relentless work can be dire. Reports in China\u2019s state-run media last year claimed that a staggering 600,000 citizens were dying from over-work each year.A 2012 editorial in the China Daily newspaper complained: \u201cEmployers cajole, persuade, goad or force their workers to work overtime because they want to perform better in China\u2019s highly competitive market to ensure that they don\u2019t go out of business.\u201dBetter-off Chinese people are suffering, too. A report by the Boston Consulting Group claimed that half of China\u2019s more affluent classes now complained of health issues stemming from \u201cwork pressures, family obligations, and long work hours\u201d.\u201cCommon complaints were insomnia, fatigue, a lack of energy, obesity, and frequent illness,\u201d it warned. \u201cThe incidence of these complaints is growing fast, especially among younger people.\u201dBut all those man-hours do not necessarily pay off. Chinese experts have urged employers to reduce workloads as a way of boosting productivity. \u201cWorking overtime is not good for workers\u2019 health and does not improve productivity and efficiency,\u201d said Li, the Beijing-based labour economist.\u201cChinese workers have to work longer hours than their peers from the more developed countries, such as the UK and US, because China\u2019s production efficiency still lags significantly far behind those countries,\u201d he said. \u201cAs we are still at the developmental stage of chasing GDP growth and increasing total production, long working hours will persist for a certain time.\u201d Additional reporting by Luna Lin", "tags": ["China", "Conservative conference 2015", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Work-life balance", "Money", "UK news", "Work & careers", "Conservatives", "Politics"], "title": "How hard does China work?"},{"date": "2015-12-23T09:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "After a strange turn of events, Zanna and her best friend Deeba follow the trail of a broken umbrella to a wheel. Once the wheel is turned, the two girls find themselves in a strange place called Un Lun Dun \u2013 the place where all of the lost and broken things of London end up. Its here they find flying buses, a bridge that leads to anywhere and a group of people who live on the roofs that aren\u2019t all they seem. Not to mention the evil Smog, a giant cloud of pollution that threatens to overtake the entire abcity. (That\u2019s what Un Lun Dun is. There are others, like Helsunki, Romeless, Lost Angeles, Sans Francisco and No York, to name a few.)This book was a genius piece of fiction. The illustrations (drawn also by Mieville) showed just how strange and brilliant this world was (it must be good \u2013 it has a library so big that you need explorers to go in and find the book you want). I loved every single tiny detail of the descriptions and the drawings and the crazy characters that make up a motley bunch of main characters. I have to say, my personal favourite is the milk carton named Curdle!With Un Lun Dun, Mieville created an adventurous, exciting book without the romance and gory details that line so many teen bookshelves today. It was relaxing and enjoyable without rambling on or becoming tedious. I was hanging on to every play-on words.Definitely one of the best books I have read in a long while.", "tags": ["Children and teenagers", "Teen books", "Books", "Culture", "Children's fantasy books (children's and teens)", "China Mi\u00e9ville"], "title": "Un Lun Dun by China Mi\u00e9ville \u2013 review"},{"date": "2015-11-20T08:00:05Z", "country": "china", "content": "The Chinese version of Top Gear has been watched by more than 200 million viewers on TV and online, with the most popular episode to date the presenters racing across England, in vehicles including a tank, to attend a football match.The second series of the Chinese version of the BBC\u2019s Top Gear, with a Taiwanese actor-singer, a TV host and a former top executive at an internet firm taking the place of the, now former, British hosts Jeremy Clarkson, James May and Richard Hammond, launched on pay-TV cable and satellite service Shanghai Dragon TV on 19 October.The series, which airs across China and Taiwan, has so far attracted an average TV audience to date of 9 million viewers tuning into the first scheduled broadcast of each episode.The fifth and most recent episode \u2013 in which the presenters race across the UK in vehicles not available in China in a battle for a single ticket to Manchester United v Everton \u2013 attracted a series high 11 million viewers.The TV viewing has been amplified by a huge online audience of 173 million across the series so far, aggregating figures from China\u2019s eight biggest video platforms including Tencent, Youku, Tudou, Sohu, Iqiyi and Baofeng.Paul Dempsey, president of global markets at BBC Worldwide, used the success in China to highlight the strength of the Top Gear franchise.Some observers question whether the loss of Clarkson, Hammond and May may damage the popularity and sales potential of the overall brand which makes about \u00a350m in revenues annually.\u201cThe success of Top Gear in China once again demonstrates the unique appeal of the world\u2019s favourite motoring entertainment show,\u201d said Dempsey. \u201cIt\u2019s also testament to a successful collaboration between our own UK producers and their Chinese counterparts who have recreated a British institution for a whole new audience.\u201dThe collaboration was perhaps not so successful for series one, which averaged about half the TV viewing and drew only 33 million online viewers in total, with all three hosts changed and elements of the format of the show overhauled for the second series.The BBC also gave the second series a major marketing push with a 30ft high \u201cBig Stig\u201d given a \u201cChinese visa\u201d for six months to tour 10 cities across China.The local hosts will appear in a Chinese version of Top Gear Live, the arena event affiliated with the TV show, scheduled for Shanghai next spring.The new-look British version of the hit BBC2 motoring show will debut next year with DJ and TV presenter Chris Evans as the lead host.The success of Top Gear has outstripped that of the third series of Sherlock, although the show has less China-wide appeal as it is the English version, which notched up about 100 million views online.Subtitled episodes of Downton Abbey are reportedly watched by 160 million viewers, while US show The Big Bang Theory, supposedly the most popular foreign show in China, has been viewed more than 1.5bn times on video sites.The biggest hits in China have been versions of entertainment shows such as China\u2019s Got Talent, a local version of Simon Cowell\u2019s ITV programme, for which viewing fihgures top 400 million an episode.", "tags": ["BBC Worldwide", "BBC", "Media", "Television industry", "China", "World news", "Taiwan", "Top Gear", "Television", "Culture", "Digital media"], "title": "Top Gear China attracts 200 million viewers"},{"date": "2015-11-09T04:58:38Z", "country": "china", "content": "Residents of north-eastern China donned gas masks and locked themselves indoors on Sunday after their homes were enveloped by some of the worst levels of smog on record. Levels of PM2.5, a tiny airborne particulate linked to cancer and heart disease, soared in Liaoning province as northern China began burning coal to heat homes at the start of the winter.Fairyland or doomsday? Heaviest #smog this year shrouds NE Chinese city of Shenyang, PM 2.5 hit over 1400 pic.twitter.com/GLo82Abk4RNorth East #China horrendous pollution levels at the moment. PM2.5 should be under 50 and in Shenyang it is... pic.twitter.com/WGOeiiKs7f In Shenyang, Liaoning\u2019s capital, visibility levels plummeted to as little as 100 metres, the state broadcaster CCTV said.\u6c88\u9633\u6628\u542f\u52a8\u91cd\u6c61\u67d3\u5929\u6c14\u4e00\u7ea7\uff08\u7ea2\u8272\uff09\u9884\u8b66 https://t.co/OcsqhQRvxW pic.twitter.com/tT5HOXGWqh China\u2019s official news agency, Xinhua, published an apocalyptic gallery of images showing the country\u2019s latest smog crisis alongside the headline: \u201cFairyland or doomsday?\u201dFairyland or doomsday? Heaviest #smog this year shrouds NE Chinese city of Shenyang, PM 2.5 hit over 1400 pic.twitter.com/GLo82Abk4R In some areas of Shenyang, PM2.5 readings reportedly surpassed 1,400 micrograms per cubic metre, which is about 56 times the levels considered safe by the World Health Organisation.Thick smog blankets NE. China\u2019s Liaoning Province; visibility in Shenyang city within 100 meters pic.twitter.com/sv4qll9iNo \u201cThe air stings and makes my eyes and throat feel sore when I\u2019m outdoors,\u201d one woman, who had ventured out to buy a face mask, was quoted as saying. \u201cAs for what exactly we should do, I don\u2019t know,\u201d she added.By Monday afternoon there had been a slight improvement, although air quality remained at \u201chazardous\u201d levels in Shenyang, an industrial city of about 8 million inhabitants.Shenyang air quality index over the past 24 hours. https://t.co/2v4KNF3xSQ pic.twitter.com/DV1XZ6eEDvThe Associated Press said Sunday\u2019s smog represented one of the worst episodes of air pollution recorded in China since authorities began releasing air quality data in 2013.There was indignation on social media as China confronted its latest \u201cairpocalypse\u201d.\u201cThe government knows how severe the smog problem is, so why haven\u2019t they tackled it?\u201d one critic wrote on Weibo, China\u2019s Twitter.\u201cWhat\u2019s the point of having an environmental protection department? The precondition for developing the economy is not damaging the environment. Our leaders are all well educated. Can\u2019t they understand this simple truth?\u201dOthers reacted with resignation. \u201cOther than reporting it, what can the government do?\u201d Shenyang, a major industrial centre since the days of Mao Zedong, has been attempting to clean up its act in recent years by relocating factories and starting to use natural gas instead of coal to heat homes.But on Monday doctors in Shenyang were dealing with the consequences of the latest bout of toxic pollution to hit their city.Yang Shenjia, who works at the Liaoning Jinqiu Hospital, said there had been a sudden influx of patients suffering from breathing complaints over the past two days. \u201cThe respiratory department\u2019s inpatient wards are full,\u201d the doctor told Xinhua.Additional reporting by Luna Lin", "tags": ["China", "Pollution", "Asia Pacific", "Environment", "World news"], "title": "Airpocalypse now: China pollution reaching record levels"},{"date": "2015-11-04T13:24:41Z", "country": "china", "content": "An unprecedented meeting between the leaders of China and Taiwan, arranged at short notice for Saturday in Singapore, is under fire from opposition politicians in Taipei who say it is a blatant attempt by Beijing to influence the island\u2019s forthcoming presidential and legislative elections.But the talks between Xi Jinping and Ma Ying-jeou, who is soon to retire, will also be seen as part of China\u2019s anticipated pushback following last week\u2019s high-profile American naval challenge to its island-building activities in the South China Sea. China initiated the meeting, ending more than half a century of ostracism at the highest level.China regards Taiwan as a renegade province and seeks its reunification with the mainland. But the island has enjoyed de facto independence since the Chinese civil war ended in 1949, underpinned by American military might. Like other countries in the region, Taiwan is in dispute with Beijing over claims in the South China Sea.  Related: Historic meeting of Chinese and Taiwanese presidents prompts hope and suspicion China-Taiwan tensions have eased somewhat during Ma\u2019s time in office as his nationalist party, the Kuomintang (KMT), has expanded cross-strait trade and tourism. But the number of Taiwanese favouring reunification has been steadily falling, while suspicion of Beijing\u2019s expansionist ambitions has grown. Opinion polls suggest the opposition Democratic Progressive party (DPP), led for the first time by a woman, Tsai Ing-wen, is on course to win the presidency in January when Ma stands down. The party is traditionally seen as favouring independence, or at the very least maintaining the status quo. A DPP success would undoubtedly anger Xi, who has said the Taiwan issue cannot remain unresolved indefinitely.Tsai complained that the announcement of the meeting came out of the blue. \u201cTo let the people know in such a hasty and chaotic manner is damaging to Taiwan\u2019s democracy,\u201d she said. The DPP spokesman Cheng Yun-peng said: \u201cHow can people not think of this as a political operation intended to affect the election?\u201dYet if Ma is thought to be kowtowing to Xi, the Singapore meeting could backfire by stiffening opposition to China\u2019s advances. Large-scale KMT defeats in local elections last year were attributed to a backlash, especially among younger voters, against the party\u2019s perceived cosying up to Beijing. China says it has no intention of interfering in the 16 January polls, unlike in 1996 when it launched war games to try to intimidate voters. Rejecting claims that Ma was selling out Taiwan, officials said he would make no deals, private or public, and would concentrate on promoting \u201cthe peaceful development of cross-strait relations\u201d. Since neither leader recognises the other as a head of state, the two men will address each other \u201cMr\u201d. Related: South-east Asian ministers cancel joint accord over South China Sea dispute Xi\u2019s sudden decision to meet Ma may be linked to escalating tension with the US. China claims sovereign rights in almost all the South China Sea, a vital international trade route. A meeting of Association of South-East Asian Nations (Asean) defence ministers ended in disarray this week when it failed to agree a joint communique because of the disputes.After no headway was made in talks between US and Chinese naval commanders on last week\u2019s Spratly islands incident involving a US warship, Ash Carter, the US defence secretary, pointedly took a South China Sea \u201cfreedom of navigation\u201d cruise on Thursday aboard a US aircraft carrier.On Friday in another apparent attempt to remind weaker neighbours of the importance of a good relationship with China, Xi will visit Vietnam, which is also involved in the South China Sea disputes and has clashed with Beijing over offshore oil drilling rights. Washington has been assiduously courting Hanoi as part its regional power struggle with Beijing. Observers say Xi may hope to mend fences and strengthen pro-China leadership contenders prior to Vietnam\u2019s Communist party national congress next year. ", "tags": ["China", "Taiwan", "South China Sea", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China initiates Taiwan meeting as South China Sea tensions rise"},{"date": "2015-12-29T10:43:18Z", "country": "china", "content": "A new anti-terror law in China gives the government the explicit power to demand technology firms decrypt electronic messages stored on their servers, sparking concern \u2013 and confusion \u2013 from foreign companies.The law as enacted, however, falls short of a draft bill which would have required computer companies to explicitly install \u201cbackdoors\u201d on their devices, allowing the Chinese government privileged access to the users\u2019 communications.Defending the law, the Chinese government pointed to legislation proposed in Western nations, such as Britain\u2019s draft investigatory powers bill, which grants similar powers to the UK government.Speaking after China\u2019s largely rubber-stamp parliament passed the law on Sunday, Li Shouwei, deputy head of the parliament\u2019s criminal law division under the legislative affairs committee, said China was simply doing what other Western nations already do in asking technology firms to help fight terror.\u201cThis rule accords with the actual work need of fighting terrorism and is basically the same as what other major countries in the world do,\u201d Li told reporters.This will not affect the normal operation of tech companies and they have nothing to fear in terms of having backdoors installed or losing intellectual property rights, he added.Adding to the similarities between the British bill, known as the Snooper\u2019s Charter, and the Chinese legislation is the confusion they have sparked amongst tech firms. China\u2019s law is vague about what, exactly, will be demanded when it comes to breaking encryption, and Recode\u2019s Dawn Chmielewski writes that \u201cit could take six months for regulations to emerge that make the government\u2019s intent clear.\u201dThe British bill has faced criticism from a number of technology companies for its anti-encryption stances. In December, Apple explicitly appealed to the government to rethink the law, arguing that \u201cit would be wrong to weaken security for hundreds of millions of law-abiding customers so that it will also be weaker for the very few who pose a threat\u201d. Technology firms have warned that where Britain leads, nations with weaker human rights records may follow, citing the UK\u2019s example before cracking down on protected communications in their own nations.China\u2019s new law also restricts the right of media to report on details of terror attacks, including a provision that media and social media cannot report on details of terror activities that might lead to imitation, nor show scenes that are \u201ccruel and inhuman\u201d.", "tags": ["Encryption", "China", "Technology", "Surveillance", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China introduces its own 'snooper's charter'"},{"date": "2015-10-06T12:21:47Z", "country": "china", "content": "\u201cThere\u2019s a bit of a British attitude which treats China as a sweatshop on the Pearl River,\u201d George Osborne opined during a trip to the world\u2019s second largest economy in 2013.\u201cOne of the things I\u2019m trying to do this week in China is change British attitudes,\u201d he said.The chancellor\u2019s message appears to have eluded the health secretary, Jeremy Hunt. On Tuesday, citing his Chinese wife as inspiration, Hunt suggested Britons needed to pull up their socks and work hard \u201cin the way that Asian economies are prepared to work hard\u201d. Related: Hunt: tax credit cuts will make Britons work like Chinese or Americans The answer, as might be expected in a country with more than 760 million workers, is complex.The average Chinese worker puts in somewhere between 2,000 and 2,200 hours each year, Wang Qi, a researcher at Beijing Normal University, told the Wall Street Journal last year.That compares to a UK average of 1,677 hours last year, according to figures from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development.But Chinese work hours have been falling for at least three decades, said Li Chang\u2019an, a labour economist at Beijing\u2019s University of International Business and Economics. \u201cSince the 1980s and 1990s, Chinese workers have been working shorter and shorter hours,\u201d Li said, pointing to improved labour laws, improved productivity and the introduction of two-day weekends.\u201cWe visit many factories every year,\u201d Li added. \u201cIn most, working conditions are improving [and] salaries increasing while working hours are decreasing.\u201dPerhaps unsurprisingly, China\u2019s hardest grafters are its impoverished and often exploited migrant workers, the Wall Street Journal found.China\u2019s average migrant worker worked 8.8 hours each day in 2013, it claimed, citing official statistics. Nearly 85% of migrants worked more than 44 hours a week, earning an average of just \u00a3270 per month.The consequences of such relentless work can be dire. Reports in China\u2019s state-run media last year claimed that a staggering 600,000 citizens were dying from over-work each year.A 2012 editorial in the China Daily newspaper complained: \u201cEmployers cajole, persuade, goad or force their workers to work overtime because they want to perform better in China\u2019s highly competitive market to ensure that they don\u2019t go out of business.\u201dBetter-off Chinese people are suffering, too. A report by the Boston Consulting Group claimed that half of China\u2019s more affluent classes now complained of health issues stemming from \u201cwork pressures, family obligations, and long work hours\u201d.\u201cCommon complaints were insomnia, fatigue, a lack of energy, obesity, and frequent illness,\u201d it warned. \u201cThe incidence of these complaints is growing fast, especially among younger people.\u201dBut all those man-hours do not necessarily pay off. Chinese experts have urged employers to reduce workloads as a way of boosting productivity. \u201cWorking overtime is not good for workers\u2019 health and does not improve productivity and efficiency,\u201d said Li, the Beijing-based labour economist.\u201cChinese workers have to work longer hours than their peers from the more developed countries, such as the UK and US, because China\u2019s production efficiency still lags significantly far behind those countries,\u201d he said. \u201cAs we are still at the developmental stage of chasing GDP growth and increasing total production, long working hours will persist for a certain time.\u201d Additional reporting by Luna Lin", "tags": ["China", "Conservative conference 2015", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Work-life balance", "Money", "UK news", "Work & careers", "Conservatives", "Politics"], "title": "How hard does China work?"},{"date": "2015-12-23T09:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "After a strange turn of events, Zanna and her best friend Deeba follow the trail of a broken umbrella to a wheel. Once the wheel is turned, the two girls find themselves in a strange place called Un Lun Dun \u2013 the place where all of the lost and broken things of London end up. Its here they find flying buses, a bridge that leads to anywhere and a group of people who live on the roofs that aren\u2019t all they seem. Not to mention the evil Smog, a giant cloud of pollution that threatens to overtake the entire abcity. (That\u2019s what Un Lun Dun is. There are others, like Helsunki, Romeless, Lost Angeles, Sans Francisco and No York, to name a few.)This book was a genius piece of fiction. The illustrations (drawn also by Mieville) showed just how strange and brilliant this world was (it must be good \u2013 it has a library so big that you need explorers to go in and find the book you want). I loved every single tiny detail of the descriptions and the drawings and the crazy characters that make up a motley bunch of main characters. I have to say, my personal favourite is the milk carton named Curdle!With Un Lun Dun, Mieville created an adventurous, exciting book without the romance and gory details that line so many teen bookshelves today. It was relaxing and enjoyable without rambling on or becoming tedious. I was hanging on to every play-on words.Definitely one of the best books I have read in a long while.", "tags": ["Children and teenagers", "Teen books", "Books", "Culture", "Children's fantasy books (children's and teens)", "China Mi\u00e9ville"], "title": "Un Lun Dun by China Mi\u00e9ville \u2013 review"},{"date": "2015-11-20T08:00:05Z", "country": "china", "content": "The Chinese version of Top Gear has been watched by more than 200 million viewers on TV and online, with the most popular episode to date the presenters racing across England, in vehicles including a tank, to attend a football match.The second series of the Chinese version of the BBC\u2019s Top Gear, with a Taiwanese actor-singer, a TV host and a former top executive at an internet firm taking the place of the, now former, British hosts Jeremy Clarkson, James May and Richard Hammond, launched on pay-TV cable and satellite service Shanghai Dragon TV on 19 October.The series, which airs across China and Taiwan, has so far attracted an average TV audience to date of 9 million viewers tuning into the first scheduled broadcast of each episode.The fifth and most recent episode \u2013 in which the presenters race across the UK in vehicles not available in China in a battle for a single ticket to Manchester United v Everton \u2013 attracted a series high 11 million viewers.The TV viewing has been amplified by a huge online audience of 173 million across the series so far, aggregating figures from China\u2019s eight biggest video platforms including Tencent, Youku, Tudou, Sohu, Iqiyi and Baofeng.Paul Dempsey, president of global markets at BBC Worldwide, used the success in China to highlight the strength of the Top Gear franchise.Some observers question whether the loss of Clarkson, Hammond and May may damage the popularity and sales potential of the overall brand which makes about \u00a350m in revenues annually.\u201cThe success of Top Gear in China once again demonstrates the unique appeal of the world\u2019s favourite motoring entertainment show,\u201d said Dempsey. \u201cIt\u2019s also testament to a successful collaboration between our own UK producers and their Chinese counterparts who have recreated a British institution for a whole new audience.\u201dThe collaboration was perhaps not so successful for series one, which averaged about half the TV viewing and drew only 33 million online viewers in total, with all three hosts changed and elements of the format of the show overhauled for the second series.The BBC also gave the second series a major marketing push with a 30ft high \u201cBig Stig\u201d given a \u201cChinese visa\u201d for six months to tour 10 cities across China.The local hosts will appear in a Chinese version of Top Gear Live, the arena event affiliated with the TV show, scheduled for Shanghai next spring.The new-look British version of the hit BBC2 motoring show will debut next year with DJ and TV presenter Chris Evans as the lead host.The success of Top Gear has outstripped that of the third series of Sherlock, although the show has less China-wide appeal as it is the English version, which notched up about 100 million views online.Subtitled episodes of Downton Abbey are reportedly watched by 160 million viewers, while US show The Big Bang Theory, supposedly the most popular foreign show in China, has been viewed more than 1.5bn times on video sites.The biggest hits in China have been versions of entertainment shows such as China\u2019s Got Talent, a local version of Simon Cowell\u2019s ITV programme, for which viewing fihgures top 400 million an episode.", "tags": ["BBC Worldwide", "BBC", "Media", "Television industry", "China", "World news", "Taiwan", "Top Gear", "Television", "Culture", "Digital media"], "title": "Top Gear China attracts 200 million viewers"},{"date": "2015-11-09T04:58:38Z", "country": "china", "content": "Residents of north-eastern China donned gas masks and locked themselves indoors on Sunday after their homes were enveloped by some of the worst levels of smog on record. Levels of PM2.5, a tiny airborne particulate linked to cancer and heart disease, soared in Liaoning province as northern China began burning coal to heat homes at the start of the winter.Fairyland or doomsday? Heaviest #smog this year shrouds NE Chinese city of Shenyang, PM 2.5 hit over 1400 pic.twitter.com/GLo82Abk4RNorth East #China horrendous pollution levels at the moment. PM2.5 should be under 50 and in Shenyang it is... pic.twitter.com/WGOeiiKs7f In Shenyang, Liaoning\u2019s capital, visibility levels plummeted to as little as 100 metres, the state broadcaster CCTV said.\u6c88\u9633\u6628\u542f\u52a8\u91cd\u6c61\u67d3\u5929\u6c14\u4e00\u7ea7\uff08\u7ea2\u8272\uff09\u9884\u8b66 https://t.co/OcsqhQRvxW pic.twitter.com/tT5HOXGWqh China\u2019s official news agency, Xinhua, published an apocalyptic gallery of images showing the country\u2019s latest smog crisis alongside the headline: \u201cFairyland or doomsday?\u201dFairyland or doomsday? Heaviest #smog this year shrouds NE Chinese city of Shenyang, PM 2.5 hit over 1400 pic.twitter.com/GLo82Abk4R In some areas of Shenyang, PM2.5 readings reportedly surpassed 1,400 micrograms per cubic metre, which is about 56 times the levels considered safe by the World Health Organisation.Thick smog blankets NE. China\u2019s Liaoning Province; visibility in Shenyang city within 100 meters pic.twitter.com/sv4qll9iNo \u201cThe air stings and makes my eyes and throat feel sore when I\u2019m outdoors,\u201d one woman, who had ventured out to buy a face mask, was quoted as saying. \u201cAs for what exactly we should do, I don\u2019t know,\u201d she added.By Monday afternoon there had been a slight improvement, although air quality remained at \u201chazardous\u201d levels in Shenyang, an industrial city of about 8 million inhabitants.Shenyang air quality index over the past 24 hours. https://t.co/2v4KNF3xSQ pic.twitter.com/DV1XZ6eEDvThe Associated Press said Sunday\u2019s smog represented one of the worst episodes of air pollution recorded in China since authorities began releasing air quality data in 2013.There was indignation on social media as China confronted its latest \u201cairpocalypse\u201d.\u201cThe government knows how severe the smog problem is, so why haven\u2019t they tackled it?\u201d one critic wrote on Weibo, China\u2019s Twitter.\u201cWhat\u2019s the point of having an environmental protection department? The precondition for developing the economy is not damaging the environment. Our leaders are all well educated. Can\u2019t they understand this simple truth?\u201dOthers reacted with resignation. \u201cOther than reporting it, what can the government do?\u201d Shenyang, a major industrial centre since the days of Mao Zedong, has been attempting to clean up its act in recent years by relocating factories and starting to use natural gas instead of coal to heat homes.But on Monday doctors in Shenyang were dealing with the consequences of the latest bout of toxic pollution to hit their city.Yang Shenjia, who works at the Liaoning Jinqiu Hospital, said there had been a sudden influx of patients suffering from breathing complaints over the past two days. \u201cThe respiratory department\u2019s inpatient wards are full,\u201d the doctor told Xinhua.Additional reporting by Luna Lin", "tags": ["China", "Pollution", "Asia Pacific", "Environment", "World news"], "title": "Airpocalypse now: China pollution reaching record levels"},{"date": "2015-10-22T18:59:19Z", "country": "china", "content": "Far from being \u201cmind full, heart empty\u201d, compassion and acceptance are central to all schools of mindfulness (I\u2019d rather live life to the full than be mindful, 21 October). Was Mr Dakers not paying attention when these essential components of mindful practice were being taught?Hannah and Mick CollinsNorwich\u2022 After observing the British establishment\u2019s deferential behaviour during the visit of Xi Jinping (Report, 21 October), I now fully understand what the Chinese word kowtow really means.Stan LabovitchWindsor, Berkshire\u2022 Thanks for telling us which was Joan Leslie in the photo of her with James Cagney (Obituary, 20 October). We\u2019d never have guessed.Richard WoodToddington, Bedfordshire\u2022 Join the debate \u2013 email guardian.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Foreign policy", "Xi Jinping", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "UK news", "Mindfulness", "Life and style"], "title": "The week that Britain kowtowed to China | Letters"},{"date": "2015-11-04T13:24:41Z", "country": "china", "content": "An unprecedented meeting between the leaders of China and Taiwan, arranged at short notice for Saturday in Singapore, is under fire from opposition politicians in Taipei who say it is a blatant attempt by Beijing to influence the island\u2019s forthcoming presidential and legislative elections.But the talks between Xi Jinping and Ma Ying-jeou, who is soon to retire, will also be seen as part of China\u2019s anticipated pushback following last week\u2019s high-profile American naval challenge to its island-building activities in the South China Sea. China initiated the meeting, ending more than half a century of ostracism at the highest level.China regards Taiwan as a renegade province and seeks its reunification with the mainland. But the island has enjoyed de facto independence since the Chinese civil war ended in 1949, underpinned by American military might. Like other countries in the region, Taiwan is in dispute with Beijing over claims in the South China Sea.  Related: Historic meeting of Chinese and Taiwanese presidents prompts hope and suspicion China-Taiwan tensions have eased somewhat during Ma\u2019s time in office as his nationalist party, the Kuomintang (KMT), has expanded cross-strait trade and tourism. But the number of Taiwanese favouring reunification has been steadily falling, while suspicion of Beijing\u2019s expansionist ambitions has grown. Opinion polls suggest the opposition Democratic Progressive party (DPP), led for the first time by a woman, Tsai Ing-wen, is on course to win the presidency in January when Ma stands down. The party is traditionally seen as favouring independence, or at the very least maintaining the status quo. A DPP success would undoubtedly anger Xi, who has said the Taiwan issue cannot remain unresolved indefinitely.Tsai complained that the announcement of the meeting came out of the blue. \u201cTo let the people know in such a hasty and chaotic manner is damaging to Taiwan\u2019s democracy,\u201d she said. The DPP spokesman Cheng Yun-peng said: \u201cHow can people not think of this as a political operation intended to affect the election?\u201dYet if Ma is thought to be kowtowing to Xi, the Singapore meeting could backfire by stiffening opposition to China\u2019s advances. Large-scale KMT defeats in local elections last year were attributed to a backlash, especially among younger voters, against the party\u2019s perceived cosying up to Beijing. China says it has no intention of interfering in the 16 January polls, unlike in 1996 when it launched war games to try to intimidate voters. Rejecting claims that Ma was selling out Taiwan, officials said he would make no deals, private or public, and would concentrate on promoting \u201cthe peaceful development of cross-strait relations\u201d. Since neither leader recognises the other as a head of state, the two men will address each other \u201cMr\u201d. Related: South-east Asian ministers cancel joint accord over South China Sea dispute Xi\u2019s sudden decision to meet Ma may be linked to escalating tension with the US. China claims sovereign rights in almost all the South China Sea, a vital international trade route. A meeting of Association of South-East Asian Nations (Asean) defence ministers ended in disarray this week when it failed to agree a joint communique because of the disputes.After no headway was made in talks between US and Chinese naval commanders on last week\u2019s Spratly islands incident involving a US warship, Ash Carter, the US defence secretary, pointedly took a South China Sea \u201cfreedom of navigation\u201d cruise on Thursday aboard a US aircraft carrier.On Friday in another apparent attempt to remind weaker neighbours of the importance of a good relationship with China, Xi will visit Vietnam, which is also involved in the South China Sea disputes and has clashed with Beijing over offshore oil drilling rights. Washington has been assiduously courting Hanoi as part its regional power struggle with Beijing. Observers say Xi may hope to mend fences and strengthen pro-China leadership contenders prior to Vietnam\u2019s Communist party national congress next year. ", "tags": ["China", "Taiwan", "South China Sea", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China initiates Taiwan meeting as South China Sea tensions rise"},{"date": "2015-12-29T10:43:18Z", "country": "china", "content": "A new anti-terror law in China gives the government the explicit power to demand technology firms decrypt electronic messages stored on their servers, sparking concern \u2013 and confusion \u2013 from foreign companies.The law as enacted, however, falls short of a draft bill which would have required computer companies to explicitly install \u201cbackdoors\u201d on their devices, allowing the Chinese government privileged access to the users\u2019 communications.Defending the law, the Chinese government pointed to legislation proposed in Western nations, such as Britain\u2019s draft investigatory powers bill, which grants similar powers to the UK government.Speaking after China\u2019s largely rubber-stamp parliament passed the law on Sunday, Li Shouwei, deputy head of the parliament\u2019s criminal law division under the legislative affairs committee, said China was simply doing what other Western nations already do in asking technology firms to help fight terror.\u201cThis rule accords with the actual work need of fighting terrorism and is basically the same as what other major countries in the world do,\u201d Li told reporters.This will not affect the normal operation of tech companies and they have nothing to fear in terms of having backdoors installed or losing intellectual property rights, he added.Adding to the similarities between the British bill, known as the Snooper\u2019s Charter, and the Chinese legislation is the confusion they have sparked amongst tech firms. China\u2019s law is vague about what, exactly, will be demanded when it comes to breaking encryption, and Recode\u2019s Dawn Chmielewski writes that \u201cit could take six months for regulations to emerge that make the government\u2019s intent clear.\u201dThe British bill has faced criticism from a number of technology companies for its anti-encryption stances. In December, Apple explicitly appealed to the government to rethink the law, arguing that \u201cit would be wrong to weaken security for hundreds of millions of law-abiding customers so that it will also be weaker for the very few who pose a threat\u201d. Technology firms have warned that where Britain leads, nations with weaker human rights records may follow, citing the UK\u2019s example before cracking down on protected communications in their own nations.China\u2019s new law also restricts the right of media to report on details of terror attacks, including a provision that media and social media cannot report on details of terror activities that might lead to imitation, nor show scenes that are \u201ccruel and inhuman\u201d.", "tags": ["Encryption", "China", "Technology", "Surveillance", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China introduces its own 'snooper's charter'"},{"date": "2015-10-06T12:21:47Z", "country": "china", "content": "\u201cThere\u2019s a bit of a British attitude which treats China as a sweatshop on the Pearl River,\u201d George Osborne opined during a trip to the world\u2019s second largest economy in 2013.\u201cOne of the things I\u2019m trying to do this week in China is change British attitudes,\u201d he said.The chancellor\u2019s message appears to have eluded the health secretary, Jeremy Hunt. On Tuesday, citing his Chinese wife as inspiration, Hunt suggested Britons needed to pull up their socks and work hard \u201cin the way that Asian economies are prepared to work hard\u201d. Related: Hunt: tax credit cuts will make Britons work like Chinese or Americans The answer, as might be expected in a country with more than 760 million workers, is complex.The average Chinese worker puts in somewhere between 2,000 and 2,200 hours each year, Wang Qi, a researcher at Beijing Normal University, told the Wall Street Journal last year.That compares to a UK average of 1,677 hours last year, according to figures from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development.But Chinese work hours have been falling for at least three decades, said Li Chang\u2019an, a labour economist at Beijing\u2019s University of International Business and Economics. \u201cSince the 1980s and 1990s, Chinese workers have been working shorter and shorter hours,\u201d Li said, pointing to improved labour laws, improved productivity and the introduction of two-day weekends.\u201cWe visit many factories every year,\u201d Li added. \u201cIn most, working conditions are improving [and] salaries increasing while working hours are decreasing.\u201dPerhaps unsurprisingly, China\u2019s hardest grafters are its impoverished and often exploited migrant workers, the Wall Street Journal found.China\u2019s average migrant worker worked 8.8 hours each day in 2013, it claimed, citing official statistics. Nearly 85% of migrants worked more than 44 hours a week, earning an average of just \u00a3270 per month.The consequences of such relentless work can be dire. Reports in China\u2019s state-run media last year claimed that a staggering 600,000 citizens were dying from over-work each year.A 2012 editorial in the China Daily newspaper complained: \u201cEmployers cajole, persuade, goad or force their workers to work overtime because they want to perform better in China\u2019s highly competitive market to ensure that they don\u2019t go out of business.\u201dBetter-off Chinese people are suffering, too. A report by the Boston Consulting Group claimed that half of China\u2019s more affluent classes now complained of health issues stemming from \u201cwork pressures, family obligations, and long work hours\u201d.\u201cCommon complaints were insomnia, fatigue, a lack of energy, obesity, and frequent illness,\u201d it warned. \u201cThe incidence of these complaints is growing fast, especially among younger people.\u201dBut all those man-hours do not necessarily pay off. Chinese experts have urged employers to reduce workloads as a way of boosting productivity. \u201cWorking overtime is not good for workers\u2019 health and does not improve productivity and efficiency,\u201d said Li, the Beijing-based labour economist.\u201cChinese workers have to work longer hours than their peers from the more developed countries, such as the UK and US, because China\u2019s production efficiency still lags significantly far behind those countries,\u201d he said. \u201cAs we are still at the developmental stage of chasing GDP growth and increasing total production, long working hours will persist for a certain time.\u201d Additional reporting by Luna Lin", "tags": ["China", "Conservative conference 2015", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Work-life balance", "Money", "UK news", "Work & careers", "Conservatives", "Politics"], "title": "How hard does China work?"},{"date": "2015-12-23T09:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "After a strange turn of events, Zanna and her best friend Deeba follow the trail of a broken umbrella to a wheel. Once the wheel is turned, the two girls find themselves in a strange place called Un Lun Dun \u2013 the place where all of the lost and broken things of London end up. Its here they find flying buses, a bridge that leads to anywhere and a group of people who live on the roofs that aren\u2019t all they seem. Not to mention the evil Smog, a giant cloud of pollution that threatens to overtake the entire abcity. (That\u2019s what Un Lun Dun is. There are others, like Helsunki, Romeless, Lost Angeles, Sans Francisco and No York, to name a few.)This book was a genius piece of fiction. The illustrations (drawn also by Mieville) showed just how strange and brilliant this world was (it must be good \u2013 it has a library so big that you need explorers to go in and find the book you want). I loved every single tiny detail of the descriptions and the drawings and the crazy characters that make up a motley bunch of main characters. I have to say, my personal favourite is the milk carton named Curdle!With Un Lun Dun, Mieville created an adventurous, exciting book without the romance and gory details that line so many teen bookshelves today. It was relaxing and enjoyable without rambling on or becoming tedious. I was hanging on to every play-on words.Definitely one of the best books I have read in a long while.", "tags": ["Children and teenagers", "Teen books", "Books", "Culture", "Children's fantasy books (children's and teens)", "China Mi\u00e9ville"], "title": "Un Lun Dun by China Mi\u00e9ville \u2013 review"},{"date": "2015-11-20T08:00:05Z", "country": "china", "content": "The Chinese version of Top Gear has been watched by more than 200 million viewers on TV and online, with the most popular episode to date the presenters racing across England, in vehicles including a tank, to attend a football match.The second series of the Chinese version of the BBC\u2019s Top Gear, with a Taiwanese actor-singer, a TV host and a former top executive at an internet firm taking the place of the, now former, British hosts Jeremy Clarkson, James May and Richard Hammond, launched on pay-TV cable and satellite service Shanghai Dragon TV on 19 October.The series, which airs across China and Taiwan, has so far attracted an average TV audience to date of 9 million viewers tuning into the first scheduled broadcast of each episode.The fifth and most recent episode \u2013 in which the presenters race across the UK in vehicles not available in China in a battle for a single ticket to Manchester United v Everton \u2013 attracted a series high 11 million viewers.The TV viewing has been amplified by a huge online audience of 173 million across the series so far, aggregating figures from China\u2019s eight biggest video platforms including Tencent, Youku, Tudou, Sohu, Iqiyi and Baofeng.Paul Dempsey, president of global markets at BBC Worldwide, used the success in China to highlight the strength of the Top Gear franchise.Some observers question whether the loss of Clarkson, Hammond and May may damage the popularity and sales potential of the overall brand which makes about \u00a350m in revenues annually.\u201cThe success of Top Gear in China once again demonstrates the unique appeal of the world\u2019s favourite motoring entertainment show,\u201d said Dempsey. \u201cIt\u2019s also testament to a successful collaboration between our own UK producers and their Chinese counterparts who have recreated a British institution for a whole new audience.\u201dThe collaboration was perhaps not so successful for series one, which averaged about half the TV viewing and drew only 33 million online viewers in total, with all three hosts changed and elements of the format of the show overhauled for the second series.The BBC also gave the second series a major marketing push with a 30ft high \u201cBig Stig\u201d given a \u201cChinese visa\u201d for six months to tour 10 cities across China.The local hosts will appear in a Chinese version of Top Gear Live, the arena event affiliated with the TV show, scheduled for Shanghai next spring.The new-look British version of the hit BBC2 motoring show will debut next year with DJ and TV presenter Chris Evans as the lead host.The success of Top Gear has outstripped that of the third series of Sherlock, although the show has less China-wide appeal as it is the English version, which notched up about 100 million views online.Subtitled episodes of Downton Abbey are reportedly watched by 160 million viewers, while US show The Big Bang Theory, supposedly the most popular foreign show in China, has been viewed more than 1.5bn times on video sites.The biggest hits in China have been versions of entertainment shows such as China\u2019s Got Talent, a local version of Simon Cowell\u2019s ITV programme, for which viewing fihgures top 400 million an episode.", "tags": ["BBC Worldwide", "BBC", "Media", "Television industry", "China", "World news", "Taiwan", "Top Gear", "Television", "Culture", "Digital media"], "title": "Top Gear China attracts 200 million viewers"},{"date": "2015-11-09T04:58:38Z", "country": "china", "content": "Residents of north-eastern China donned gas masks and locked themselves indoors on Sunday after their homes were enveloped by some of the worst levels of smog on record. Levels of PM2.5, a tiny airborne particulate linked to cancer and heart disease, soared in Liaoning province as northern China began burning coal to heat homes at the start of the winter.Fairyland or doomsday? Heaviest #smog this year shrouds NE Chinese city of Shenyang, PM 2.5 hit over 1400 pic.twitter.com/GLo82Abk4RNorth East #China horrendous pollution levels at the moment. PM2.5 should be under 50 and in Shenyang it is... pic.twitter.com/WGOeiiKs7f In Shenyang, Liaoning\u2019s capital, visibility levels plummeted to as little as 100 metres, the state broadcaster CCTV said.\u6c88\u9633\u6628\u542f\u52a8\u91cd\u6c61\u67d3\u5929\u6c14\u4e00\u7ea7\uff08\u7ea2\u8272\uff09\u9884\u8b66 https://t.co/OcsqhQRvxW pic.twitter.com/tT5HOXGWqh China\u2019s official news agency, Xinhua, published an apocalyptic gallery of images showing the country\u2019s latest smog crisis alongside the headline: \u201cFairyland or doomsday?\u201dFairyland or doomsday? Heaviest #smog this year shrouds NE Chinese city of Shenyang, PM 2.5 hit over 1400 pic.twitter.com/GLo82Abk4R In some areas of Shenyang, PM2.5 readings reportedly surpassed 1,400 micrograms per cubic metre, which is about 56 times the levels considered safe by the World Health Organisation.Thick smog blankets NE. China\u2019s Liaoning Province; visibility in Shenyang city within 100 meters pic.twitter.com/sv4qll9iNo \u201cThe air stings and makes my eyes and throat feel sore when I\u2019m outdoors,\u201d one woman, who had ventured out to buy a face mask, was quoted as saying. \u201cAs for what exactly we should do, I don\u2019t know,\u201d she added.By Monday afternoon there had been a slight improvement, although air quality remained at \u201chazardous\u201d levels in Shenyang, an industrial city of about 8 million inhabitants.Shenyang air quality index over the past 24 hours. https://t.co/2v4KNF3xSQ pic.twitter.com/DV1XZ6eEDvThe Associated Press said Sunday\u2019s smog represented one of the worst episodes of air pollution recorded in China since authorities began releasing air quality data in 2013.There was indignation on social media as China confronted its latest \u201cairpocalypse\u201d.\u201cThe government knows how severe the smog problem is, so why haven\u2019t they tackled it?\u201d one critic wrote on Weibo, China\u2019s Twitter.\u201cWhat\u2019s the point of having an environmental protection department? The precondition for developing the economy is not damaging the environment. Our leaders are all well educated. Can\u2019t they understand this simple truth?\u201dOthers reacted with resignation. \u201cOther than reporting it, what can the government do?\u201d Shenyang, a major industrial centre since the days of Mao Zedong, has been attempting to clean up its act in recent years by relocating factories and starting to use natural gas instead of coal to heat homes.But on Monday doctors in Shenyang were dealing with the consequences of the latest bout of toxic pollution to hit their city.Yang Shenjia, who works at the Liaoning Jinqiu Hospital, said there had been a sudden influx of patients suffering from breathing complaints over the past two days. \u201cThe respiratory department\u2019s inpatient wards are full,\u201d the doctor told Xinhua.Additional reporting by Luna Lin", "tags": ["China", "Pollution", "Asia Pacific", "Environment", "World news"], "title": "Airpocalypse now: China pollution reaching record levels"},{"date": "2015-10-22T18:59:19Z", "country": "china", "content": "Far from being \u201cmind full, heart empty\u201d, compassion and acceptance are central to all schools of mindfulness (I\u2019d rather live life to the full than be mindful, 21 October). Was Mr Dakers not paying attention when these essential components of mindful practice were being taught?Hannah and Mick CollinsNorwich\u2022 After observing the British establishment\u2019s deferential behaviour during the visit of Xi Jinping (Report, 21 October), I now fully understand what the Chinese word kowtow really means.Stan LabovitchWindsor, Berkshire\u2022 Thanks for telling us which was Joan Leslie in the photo of her with James Cagney (Obituary, 20 October). We\u2019d never have guessed.Richard WoodToddington, Bedfordshire\u2022 Join the debate \u2013 email guardian.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Foreign policy", "Xi Jinping", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "UK news", "Mindfulness", "Life and style"], "title": "The week that Britain kowtowed to China | Letters"},{"date": "2015-10-06T15:00:09Z", "country": "china", "content": "To say this hasn\u2019t been the greatest couple of months for China would be an understatement. But, despite the current gloom, innovation still stands strong. Regularly unique, sometimes surprising, often completely different to anything you\u2019ve seen in the west, China\u2019s approach to marketing and social media has been an incredible journey over the last few years. We\u2019ve been following this progress closely, with the team in our Shanghai office, and we\u2019ve recently published a report into the digital, social and mobile landscape in China. There were some big numbers in there, with the headline stats focused predominantly on mobile and social growth. There are now 574 million mobile social media users in China, up 15 million since this time last year, as well as the fact that there are now 659 million social media users \u2013 more than the US and Europe combined. But what does all this tell marketers about China, and how to approach it? Here are the five key points to consider when communicating with a Chinese audience. Related: Luxury brands must redefine the way they do business It\u2019s obvious that the platforms that dominate in China are markedly different to ones that marketers are familiar with elsewhere \u2013 even those in their Asian neighbours. However, it\u2019s not just the platforms that are different; the ways that Chinese netizens use social channels is also markedly different, and marketers need to carefully adapt their approaches for China\u2019s cultural and societal idiosyncrasies as much as for its technological differences. One size does not fit all when it comes to China.In particular, the growing popularity of chat apps in China presents a new set of opportunities for marketers. Many of the conversations that take place on these platforms are more private in nature, taking place between individuals and small groups (versus the public environments that western marketers will know from Facebook and Twitter). In order to take advantage of the intimate nature of these one-to-one conversations, marketers will need to explore new approaches to social media and content marketing, ensuring that the tactics they employ make it easy for audiences to find and consume content on one platform (eg video-sharing services like Youku or Tudou), and then share that content via chat apps. This will require greater emphasis on highly engaging content and organic sharing, rather than an approach that relies on paid media to push mediocre content to the masses.While western marketers gear up for the big pre-Christmas shopping days of the year, Black Friday and Cyber Monday at the end of November, the big dates in the Chinese calendar happen at different times. Singles\u2019 Day, a shopping festival that also happens in November, targets people who are single (as you might have guessed) and offers them an excuse to buy themselves gifts in celebration of their single status. It\u2019s already become hugely popular among young Chinese people, and is now the country\u2019s largest shopping day of the year, despite the fact that it\u2019s not a cultural tradition, but the recent commercial brainchild of e-commerce giant Alibaba. Sales on Alibaba\u2019s various sites exceeded $9.3bn (\u00a35.85bn) in just one day last on Singles\u2019 Day last year, and there\u2019s every chance that number will pass $10 billion on 11 November this year. Retailers start marketing Singles\u2019 Day at least a month before the day, and on the day itself, offer big discounts (sometimes up to 50%) on products to draw consumers in. Think of it as a bit like a Boxing Day shopping mentality, but without the hangover and leftover turkey. Meanwhile, lunar new year is another big commercial festival in China, and inspires the sort of commercial activity that western marketers would associate with Christmas.As with any market, peer-to-peer recommendations are the holy grail of marketing, and China is no different in this respect. Indeed, given the highly regulated nature of the country\u2019s more traditional mass media, word-of-mouth is even more critical in China \u2013 a fact supported by McKinsey research. For this reason, recommendations both offline and on social networks such as WeChat, QQ and Sina Weibo have become \u201cthe most important factor in the online shopping decision,\u201d according to another McKinsey report featured in China Daily. Given this behaviour, marketers must start to explore how the dynamics of social referral work in China for their specific audiences and industry, and use that to move from social engagement to social conversion.In addition to general online purchases, one trend that our report picked up on is the willingness to buy products on mobile \u2013 20% bought a product on a mobile device over a month (2% higher than the UK and US), with 15% claiming to have researched a product to buy on their phone. M-commerce is clearly big but what are retailers doing to help spur this along? Despite their poor standing in the minds of many western marketers, the QR code is a daily essential for brands in China, and the distinctive black and white images can be found on billboards and products all over the country. This is partly thanks to WeChat\u2019s adoption \u2013 using a QR code and a WeChat wallet, consumers can buy goods from physical stores in China instead of using cash or a credit card. This year, Alibaba launched \u201cdotless visual codes\u201d for brands to place on product packaging so that consumers can use their phone to check a product\u2019s authenticity and get information, discounts and recommendations based on their preferences. Just because something is out of fashion in the west, don\u2019t assume the same is true for China.Simon Kemp, regional managing partner, Asia at We Are SocialTo get weekly news analysis, job alerts and event notifications direct to your inbox, sign up free for Media and Tech Network membership.All Guardian Media and Tech Network content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled \u201cBrought to you by\u201d \u2013 find out more here.", "tags": ["Media & Tech Network", "Marketing & PR", "Digital media", "Apps"], "title": "Marketing in China: a five-step guide"},{"date": "2015-11-04T13:24:41Z", "country": "china", "content": "An unprecedented meeting between the leaders of China and Taiwan, arranged at short notice for Saturday in Singapore, is under fire from opposition politicians in Taipei who say it is a blatant attempt by Beijing to influence the island\u2019s forthcoming presidential and legislative elections.But the talks between Xi Jinping and Ma Ying-jeou, who is soon to retire, will also be seen as part of China\u2019s anticipated pushback following last week\u2019s high-profile American naval challenge to its island-building activities in the South China Sea. China initiated the meeting, ending more than half a century of ostracism at the highest level.China regards Taiwan as a renegade province and seeks its reunification with the mainland. But the island has enjoyed de facto independence since the Chinese civil war ended in 1949, underpinned by American military might. Like other countries in the region, Taiwan is in dispute with Beijing over claims in the South China Sea.  Related: Historic meeting of Chinese and Taiwanese presidents prompts hope and suspicion China-Taiwan tensions have eased somewhat during Ma\u2019s time in office as his nationalist party, the Kuomintang (KMT), has expanded cross-strait trade and tourism. But the number of Taiwanese favouring reunification has been steadily falling, while suspicion of Beijing\u2019s expansionist ambitions has grown. Opinion polls suggest the opposition Democratic Progressive party (DPP), led for the first time by a woman, Tsai Ing-wen, is on course to win the presidency in January when Ma stands down. The party is traditionally seen as favouring independence, or at the very least maintaining the status quo. A DPP success would undoubtedly anger Xi, who has said the Taiwan issue cannot remain unresolved indefinitely.Tsai complained that the announcement of the meeting came out of the blue. \u201cTo let the people know in such a hasty and chaotic manner is damaging to Taiwan\u2019s democracy,\u201d she said. The DPP spokesman Cheng Yun-peng said: \u201cHow can people not think of this as a political operation intended to affect the election?\u201dYet if Ma is thought to be kowtowing to Xi, the Singapore meeting could backfire by stiffening opposition to China\u2019s advances. Large-scale KMT defeats in local elections last year were attributed to a backlash, especially among younger voters, against the party\u2019s perceived cosying up to Beijing. China says it has no intention of interfering in the 16 January polls, unlike in 1996 when it launched war games to try to intimidate voters. Rejecting claims that Ma was selling out Taiwan, officials said he would make no deals, private or public, and would concentrate on promoting \u201cthe peaceful development of cross-strait relations\u201d. Since neither leader recognises the other as a head of state, the two men will address each other \u201cMr\u201d. Related: South-east Asian ministers cancel joint accord over South China Sea dispute Xi\u2019s sudden decision to meet Ma may be linked to escalating tension with the US. China claims sovereign rights in almost all the South China Sea, a vital international trade route. A meeting of Association of South-East Asian Nations (Asean) defence ministers ended in disarray this week when it failed to agree a joint communique because of the disputes.After no headway was made in talks between US and Chinese naval commanders on last week\u2019s Spratly islands incident involving a US warship, Ash Carter, the US defence secretary, pointedly took a South China Sea \u201cfreedom of navigation\u201d cruise on Thursday aboard a US aircraft carrier.On Friday in another apparent attempt to remind weaker neighbours of the importance of a good relationship with China, Xi will visit Vietnam, which is also involved in the South China Sea disputes and has clashed with Beijing over offshore oil drilling rights. Washington has been assiduously courting Hanoi as part its regional power struggle with Beijing. Observers say Xi may hope to mend fences and strengthen pro-China leadership contenders prior to Vietnam\u2019s Communist party national congress next year. ", "tags": ["China", "Taiwan", "South China Sea", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China initiates Taiwan meeting as South China Sea tensions rise"},{"date": "2015-12-29T10:43:18Z", "country": "china", "content": "A new anti-terror law in China gives the government the explicit power to demand technology firms decrypt electronic messages stored on their servers, sparking concern \u2013 and confusion \u2013 from foreign companies.The law as enacted, however, falls short of a draft bill which would have required computer companies to explicitly install \u201cbackdoors\u201d on their devices, allowing the Chinese government privileged access to the users\u2019 communications.Defending the law, the Chinese government pointed to legislation proposed in Western nations, such as Britain\u2019s draft investigatory powers bill, which grants similar powers to the UK government.Speaking after China\u2019s largely rubber-stamp parliament passed the law on Sunday, Li Shouwei, deputy head of the parliament\u2019s criminal law division under the legislative affairs committee, said China was simply doing what other Western nations already do in asking technology firms to help fight terror.\u201cThis rule accords with the actual work need of fighting terrorism and is basically the same as what other major countries in the world do,\u201d Li told reporters.This will not affect the normal operation of tech companies and they have nothing to fear in terms of having backdoors installed or losing intellectual property rights, he added.Adding to the similarities between the British bill, known as the Snooper\u2019s Charter, and the Chinese legislation is the confusion they have sparked amongst tech firms. China\u2019s law is vague about what, exactly, will be demanded when it comes to breaking encryption, and Recode\u2019s Dawn Chmielewski writes that \u201cit could take six months for regulations to emerge that make the government\u2019s intent clear.\u201dThe British bill has faced criticism from a number of technology companies for its anti-encryption stances. In December, Apple explicitly appealed to the government to rethink the law, arguing that \u201cit would be wrong to weaken security for hundreds of millions of law-abiding customers so that it will also be weaker for the very few who pose a threat\u201d. Technology firms have warned that where Britain leads, nations with weaker human rights records may follow, citing the UK\u2019s example before cracking down on protected communications in their own nations.China\u2019s new law also restricts the right of media to report on details of terror attacks, including a provision that media and social media cannot report on details of terror activities that might lead to imitation, nor show scenes that are \u201ccruel and inhuman\u201d.", "tags": ["Encryption", "China", "Technology", "Surveillance", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China introduces its own 'snooper's charter'"},{"date": "2015-10-06T12:21:47Z", "country": "china", "content": "\u201cThere\u2019s a bit of a British attitude which treats China as a sweatshop on the Pearl River,\u201d George Osborne opined during a trip to the world\u2019s second largest economy in 2013.\u201cOne of the things I\u2019m trying to do this week in China is change British attitudes,\u201d he said.The chancellor\u2019s message appears to have eluded the health secretary, Jeremy Hunt. On Tuesday, citing his Chinese wife as inspiration, Hunt suggested Britons needed to pull up their socks and work hard \u201cin the way that Asian economies are prepared to work hard\u201d. Related: Hunt: tax credit cuts will make Britons work like Chinese or Americans The answer, as might be expected in a country with more than 760 million workers, is complex.The average Chinese worker puts in somewhere between 2,000 and 2,200 hours each year, Wang Qi, a researcher at Beijing Normal University, told the Wall Street Journal last year.That compares to a UK average of 1,677 hours last year, according to figures from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development.But Chinese work hours have been falling for at least three decades, said Li Chang\u2019an, a labour economist at Beijing\u2019s University of International Business and Economics. \u201cSince the 1980s and 1990s, Chinese workers have been working shorter and shorter hours,\u201d Li said, pointing to improved labour laws, improved productivity and the introduction of two-day weekends.\u201cWe visit many factories every year,\u201d Li added. \u201cIn most, working conditions are improving [and] salaries increasing while working hours are decreasing.\u201dPerhaps unsurprisingly, China\u2019s hardest grafters are its impoverished and often exploited migrant workers, the Wall Street Journal found.China\u2019s average migrant worker worked 8.8 hours each day in 2013, it claimed, citing official statistics. Nearly 85% of migrants worked more than 44 hours a week, earning an average of just \u00a3270 per month.The consequences of such relentless work can be dire. Reports in China\u2019s state-run media last year claimed that a staggering 600,000 citizens were dying from over-work each year.A 2012 editorial in the China Daily newspaper complained: \u201cEmployers cajole, persuade, goad or force their workers to work overtime because they want to perform better in China\u2019s highly competitive market to ensure that they don\u2019t go out of business.\u201dBetter-off Chinese people are suffering, too. A report by the Boston Consulting Group claimed that half of China\u2019s more affluent classes now complained of health issues stemming from \u201cwork pressures, family obligations, and long work hours\u201d.\u201cCommon complaints were insomnia, fatigue, a lack of energy, obesity, and frequent illness,\u201d it warned. \u201cThe incidence of these complaints is growing fast, especially among younger people.\u201dBut all those man-hours do not necessarily pay off. Chinese experts have urged employers to reduce workloads as a way of boosting productivity. \u201cWorking overtime is not good for workers\u2019 health and does not improve productivity and efficiency,\u201d said Li, the Beijing-based labour economist.\u201cChinese workers have to work longer hours than their peers from the more developed countries, such as the UK and US, because China\u2019s production efficiency still lags significantly far behind those countries,\u201d he said. \u201cAs we are still at the developmental stage of chasing GDP growth and increasing total production, long working hours will persist for a certain time.\u201d Additional reporting by Luna Lin", "tags": ["China", "Conservative conference 2015", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Work-life balance", "Money", "UK news", "Work & careers", "Conservatives", "Politics"], "title": "How hard does China work?"},{"date": "2015-12-23T09:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "After a strange turn of events, Zanna and her best friend Deeba follow the trail of a broken umbrella to a wheel. Once the wheel is turned, the two girls find themselves in a strange place called Un Lun Dun \u2013 the place where all of the lost and broken things of London end up. Its here they find flying buses, a bridge that leads to anywhere and a group of people who live on the roofs that aren\u2019t all they seem. Not to mention the evil Smog, a giant cloud of pollution that threatens to overtake the entire abcity. (That\u2019s what Un Lun Dun is. There are others, like Helsunki, Romeless, Lost Angeles, Sans Francisco and No York, to name a few.)This book was a genius piece of fiction. The illustrations (drawn also by Mieville) showed just how strange and brilliant this world was (it must be good \u2013 it has a library so big that you need explorers to go in and find the book you want). I loved every single tiny detail of the descriptions and the drawings and the crazy characters that make up a motley bunch of main characters. I have to say, my personal favourite is the milk carton named Curdle!With Un Lun Dun, Mieville created an adventurous, exciting book without the romance and gory details that line so many teen bookshelves today. It was relaxing and enjoyable without rambling on or becoming tedious. I was hanging on to every play-on words.Definitely one of the best books I have read in a long while.", "tags": ["Children and teenagers", "Teen books", "Books", "Culture", "Children's fantasy books (children's and teens)", "China Mi\u00e9ville"], "title": "Un Lun Dun by China Mi\u00e9ville \u2013 review"},{"date": "2015-11-20T08:00:05Z", "country": "china", "content": "The Chinese version of Top Gear has been watched by more than 200 million viewers on TV and online, with the most popular episode to date the presenters racing across England, in vehicles including a tank, to attend a football match.The second series of the Chinese version of the BBC\u2019s Top Gear, with a Taiwanese actor-singer, a TV host and a former top executive at an internet firm taking the place of the, now former, British hosts Jeremy Clarkson, James May and Richard Hammond, launched on pay-TV cable and satellite service Shanghai Dragon TV on 19 October.The series, which airs across China and Taiwan, has so far attracted an average TV audience to date of 9 million viewers tuning into the first scheduled broadcast of each episode.The fifth and most recent episode \u2013 in which the presenters race across the UK in vehicles not available in China in a battle for a single ticket to Manchester United v Everton \u2013 attracted a series high 11 million viewers.The TV viewing has been amplified by a huge online audience of 173 million across the series so far, aggregating figures from China\u2019s eight biggest video platforms including Tencent, Youku, Tudou, Sohu, Iqiyi and Baofeng.Paul Dempsey, president of global markets at BBC Worldwide, used the success in China to highlight the strength of the Top Gear franchise.Some observers question whether the loss of Clarkson, Hammond and May may damage the popularity and sales potential of the overall brand which makes about \u00a350m in revenues annually.\u201cThe success of Top Gear in China once again demonstrates the unique appeal of the world\u2019s favourite motoring entertainment show,\u201d said Dempsey. \u201cIt\u2019s also testament to a successful collaboration between our own UK producers and their Chinese counterparts who have recreated a British institution for a whole new audience.\u201dThe collaboration was perhaps not so successful for series one, which averaged about half the TV viewing and drew only 33 million online viewers in total, with all three hosts changed and elements of the format of the show overhauled for the second series.The BBC also gave the second series a major marketing push with a 30ft high \u201cBig Stig\u201d given a \u201cChinese visa\u201d for six months to tour 10 cities across China.The local hosts will appear in a Chinese version of Top Gear Live, the arena event affiliated with the TV show, scheduled for Shanghai next spring.The new-look British version of the hit BBC2 motoring show will debut next year with DJ and TV presenter Chris Evans as the lead host.The success of Top Gear has outstripped that of the third series of Sherlock, although the show has less China-wide appeal as it is the English version, which notched up about 100 million views online.Subtitled episodes of Downton Abbey are reportedly watched by 160 million viewers, while US show The Big Bang Theory, supposedly the most popular foreign show in China, has been viewed more than 1.5bn times on video sites.The biggest hits in China have been versions of entertainment shows such as China\u2019s Got Talent, a local version of Simon Cowell\u2019s ITV programme, for which viewing fihgures top 400 million an episode.", "tags": ["BBC Worldwide", "BBC", "Media", "Television industry", "China", "World news", "Taiwan", "Top Gear", "Television", "Culture", "Digital media"], "title": "Top Gear China attracts 200 million viewers"},{"date": "2015-11-09T04:58:38Z", "country": "china", "content": "Residents of north-eastern China donned gas masks and locked themselves indoors on Sunday after their homes were enveloped by some of the worst levels of smog on record. Levels of PM2.5, a tiny airborne particulate linked to cancer and heart disease, soared in Liaoning province as northern China began burning coal to heat homes at the start of the winter.Fairyland or doomsday? Heaviest #smog this year shrouds NE Chinese city of Shenyang, PM 2.5 hit over 1400 pic.twitter.com/GLo82Abk4RNorth East #China horrendous pollution levels at the moment. PM2.5 should be under 50 and in Shenyang it is... pic.twitter.com/WGOeiiKs7f In Shenyang, Liaoning\u2019s capital, visibility levels plummeted to as little as 100 metres, the state broadcaster CCTV said.\u6c88\u9633\u6628\u542f\u52a8\u91cd\u6c61\u67d3\u5929\u6c14\u4e00\u7ea7\uff08\u7ea2\u8272\uff09\u9884\u8b66 https://t.co/OcsqhQRvxW pic.twitter.com/tT5HOXGWqh China\u2019s official news agency, Xinhua, published an apocalyptic gallery of images showing the country\u2019s latest smog crisis alongside the headline: \u201cFairyland or doomsday?\u201dFairyland or doomsday? Heaviest #smog this year shrouds NE Chinese city of Shenyang, PM 2.5 hit over 1400 pic.twitter.com/GLo82Abk4R In some areas of Shenyang, PM2.5 readings reportedly surpassed 1,400 micrograms per cubic metre, which is about 56 times the levels considered safe by the World Health Organisation.Thick smog blankets NE. China\u2019s Liaoning Province; visibility in Shenyang city within 100 meters pic.twitter.com/sv4qll9iNo \u201cThe air stings and makes my eyes and throat feel sore when I\u2019m outdoors,\u201d one woman, who had ventured out to buy a face mask, was quoted as saying. \u201cAs for what exactly we should do, I don\u2019t know,\u201d she added.By Monday afternoon there had been a slight improvement, although air quality remained at \u201chazardous\u201d levels in Shenyang, an industrial city of about 8 million inhabitants.Shenyang air quality index over the past 24 hours. https://t.co/2v4KNF3xSQ pic.twitter.com/DV1XZ6eEDvThe Associated Press said Sunday\u2019s smog represented one of the worst episodes of air pollution recorded in China since authorities began releasing air quality data in 2013.There was indignation on social media as China confronted its latest \u201cairpocalypse\u201d.\u201cThe government knows how severe the smog problem is, so why haven\u2019t they tackled it?\u201d one critic wrote on Weibo, China\u2019s Twitter.\u201cWhat\u2019s the point of having an environmental protection department? The precondition for developing the economy is not damaging the environment. Our leaders are all well educated. Can\u2019t they understand this simple truth?\u201dOthers reacted with resignation. \u201cOther than reporting it, what can the government do?\u201d Shenyang, a major industrial centre since the days of Mao Zedong, has been attempting to clean up its act in recent years by relocating factories and starting to use natural gas instead of coal to heat homes.But on Monday doctors in Shenyang were dealing with the consequences of the latest bout of toxic pollution to hit their city.Yang Shenjia, who works at the Liaoning Jinqiu Hospital, said there had been a sudden influx of patients suffering from breathing complaints over the past two days. \u201cThe respiratory department\u2019s inpatient wards are full,\u201d the doctor told Xinhua.Additional reporting by Luna Lin", "tags": ["China", "Pollution", "Asia Pacific", "Environment", "World news"], "title": "Airpocalypse now: China pollution reaching record levels"},{"date": "2015-10-22T18:59:19Z", "country": "china", "content": "Far from being \u201cmind full, heart empty\u201d, compassion and acceptance are central to all schools of mindfulness (I\u2019d rather live life to the full than be mindful, 21 October). Was Mr Dakers not paying attention when these essential components of mindful practice were being taught?Hannah and Mick CollinsNorwich\u2022 After observing the British establishment\u2019s deferential behaviour during the visit of Xi Jinping (Report, 21 October), I now fully understand what the Chinese word kowtow really means.Stan LabovitchWindsor, Berkshire\u2022 Thanks for telling us which was Joan Leslie in the photo of her with James Cagney (Obituary, 20 October). We\u2019d never have guessed.Richard WoodToddington, Bedfordshire\u2022 Join the debate \u2013 email guardian.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Foreign policy", "Xi Jinping", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "UK news", "Mindfulness", "Life and style"], "title": "The week that Britain kowtowed to China | Letters"},{"date": "2015-10-06T15:00:09Z", "country": "china", "content": "To say this hasn\u2019t been the greatest couple of months for China would be an understatement. But, despite the current gloom, innovation still stands strong. Regularly unique, sometimes surprising, often completely different to anything you\u2019ve seen in the west, China\u2019s approach to marketing and social media has been an incredible journey over the last few years. We\u2019ve been following this progress closely, with the team in our Shanghai office, and we\u2019ve recently published a report into the digital, social and mobile landscape in China. There were some big numbers in there, with the headline stats focused predominantly on mobile and social growth. There are now 574 million mobile social media users in China, up 15 million since this time last year, as well as the fact that there are now 659 million social media users \u2013 more than the US and Europe combined. But what does all this tell marketers about China, and how to approach it? Here are the five key points to consider when communicating with a Chinese audience. Related: Luxury brands must redefine the way they do business It\u2019s obvious that the platforms that dominate in China are markedly different to ones that marketers are familiar with elsewhere \u2013 even those in their Asian neighbours. However, it\u2019s not just the platforms that are different; the ways that Chinese netizens use social channels is also markedly different, and marketers need to carefully adapt their approaches for China\u2019s cultural and societal idiosyncrasies as much as for its technological differences. One size does not fit all when it comes to China.In particular, the growing popularity of chat apps in China presents a new set of opportunities for marketers. Many of the conversations that take place on these platforms are more private in nature, taking place between individuals and small groups (versus the public environments that western marketers will know from Facebook and Twitter). In order to take advantage of the intimate nature of these one-to-one conversations, marketers will need to explore new approaches to social media and content marketing, ensuring that the tactics they employ make it easy for audiences to find and consume content on one platform (eg video-sharing services like Youku or Tudou), and then share that content via chat apps. This will require greater emphasis on highly engaging content and organic sharing, rather than an approach that relies on paid media to push mediocre content to the masses.While western marketers gear up for the big pre-Christmas shopping days of the year, Black Friday and Cyber Monday at the end of November, the big dates in the Chinese calendar happen at different times. Singles\u2019 Day, a shopping festival that also happens in November, targets people who are single (as you might have guessed) and offers them an excuse to buy themselves gifts in celebration of their single status. It\u2019s already become hugely popular among young Chinese people, and is now the country\u2019s largest shopping day of the year, despite the fact that it\u2019s not a cultural tradition, but the recent commercial brainchild of e-commerce giant Alibaba. Sales on Alibaba\u2019s various sites exceeded $9.3bn (\u00a35.85bn) in just one day last on Singles\u2019 Day last year, and there\u2019s every chance that number will pass $10 billion on 11 November this year. Retailers start marketing Singles\u2019 Day at least a month before the day, and on the day itself, offer big discounts (sometimes up to 50%) on products to draw consumers in. Think of it as a bit like a Boxing Day shopping mentality, but without the hangover and leftover turkey. Meanwhile, lunar new year is another big commercial festival in China, and inspires the sort of commercial activity that western marketers would associate with Christmas.As with any market, peer-to-peer recommendations are the holy grail of marketing, and China is no different in this respect. Indeed, given the highly regulated nature of the country\u2019s more traditional mass media, word-of-mouth is even more critical in China \u2013 a fact supported by McKinsey research. For this reason, recommendations both offline and on social networks such as WeChat, QQ and Sina Weibo have become \u201cthe most important factor in the online shopping decision,\u201d according to another McKinsey report featured in China Daily. Given this behaviour, marketers must start to explore how the dynamics of social referral work in China for their specific audiences and industry, and use that to move from social engagement to social conversion.In addition to general online purchases, one trend that our report picked up on is the willingness to buy products on mobile \u2013 20% bought a product on a mobile device over a month (2% higher than the UK and US), with 15% claiming to have researched a product to buy on their phone. M-commerce is clearly big but what are retailers doing to help spur this along? Despite their poor standing in the minds of many western marketers, the QR code is a daily essential for brands in China, and the distinctive black and white images can be found on billboards and products all over the country. This is partly thanks to WeChat\u2019s adoption \u2013 using a QR code and a WeChat wallet, consumers can buy goods from physical stores in China instead of using cash or a credit card. This year, Alibaba launched \u201cdotless visual codes\u201d for brands to place on product packaging so that consumers can use their phone to check a product\u2019s authenticity and get information, discounts and recommendations based on their preferences. Just because something is out of fashion in the west, don\u2019t assume the same is true for China.Simon Kemp, regional managing partner, Asia at We Are SocialTo get weekly news analysis, job alerts and event notifications direct to your inbox, sign up free for Media and Tech Network membership.All Guardian Media and Tech Network content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled \u201cBrought to you by\u201d \u2013 find out more here.", "tags": ["Media & Tech Network", "Marketing & PR", "Digital media", "Apps"], "title": "Marketing in China: a five-step guide"},{"date": "2015-10-30T02:29:37Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has warned the US that its \u201cdangerous and provocative acts\u201d in the South China Sea could lead to \u201ca minor incident that sparks war\u201d.China\u2019s naval commander, Admiral Wu Shengli, issued the warning to his American counterpart Admiral John Richardson during video conference talks on Thursday aimed at defusing tension in the region, according to a Chinese naval statement.  Related: Neither China nor the US will give way in this South China Sea showdown | Jonathan Fenby \u201cIf the United States continues with these kinds of dangerous, provocative acts, there could well be a seriously pressing situation between frontline forces from both sides on the sea and in the air, or even a minor incident that sparks war,\u201d the statement paraphrased Wu as saying. \u201cI hope the US side cherishes the good situation between the Chinese and US navies that has not come easily and avoids these kinds of incidents from happening again,\u201d Wu said. The high-level talks followed mounting international alarm in the wake of the decision by Washington to send a US destroyer close to artificial islands built by Beijing in the South China Sea.According to the Pentagon, however, the hour-long talks had been \u201cproductive\u201d.The admirals discussed \u201cfreedom of navigation operations, the relationship between the two navies including pending port visits, senior leader engagement and the importance of maintaining an ongoing dialogue\u201d, a Pentagon spokesman said.Navy spokesman Lieutenant Tim Hawkins said the conversation on Thursday had been \u201cprofessional and productive\u201d.The USS Lassen guided-missile destroyer sailed within 12 nautical miles of at least one of the land formations claimed by China in the disputed Spratly Islands chain on Tuesday.The move prompted the Chinese government to summon the US ambassador in Beijing and denounce what it called a threat to its sovereignty.The US said after Thursday\u2019s talks that the Chinese had expressed no desire to cancel scheduled visits by Chinese ships to a Florida port next week and that an upcoming visit to China by the commander of the US Pacific Command would still take place.\u201cWe look forward to continue this dialogue,\u201d an official said.Wu and Richardson, the US navy operations chief, had agreed to speak again via video conference later this year.Tensions have mounted since China transformed reefs in the area \u2013 also claimed by several neighbouring countries \u2013 into small islands capable of supporting military facilities, a move the US says threatens freedom of navigation.Washington has repeatedly said it does not recognise Chinese claims to territorial waters around the artificial islands and reiterated that it would send more warships to sail close to the controversial islets.But in a move that is likely to trigger fury in Beijing and reignite tension in the region, an international tribunal ruled on Thursday that it had the power to hear a case brought by the Philippines over the disputed seas.Manila has insisted the UN convention on the law of the sea, which the Philippines and China have both ratified, should be used to resolve the bitter territorial row over isolated reefs and islets.China has refused to participate in the proceedings, arguing the Permanent Court of Arbitration \u2013 which is more than a century old and based in The Hague \u2013 had no jurisdiction over the case.\u201cReviewing the claims submitted by the Philippines, the tribunal has rejected the argument\u201d by China that the \u201cdispute is actually about sovereignty over the islands in the South China Sea and therefore beyond the tribunal\u2019s jurisdiction\u201d, the court said in a statement.Instead, the court ruled the case reflects \u201cdisputes between the two states concerning the interpretation or application of the convention\u201d - something which falls within its remit.A senior Chinese diplomat said on Friday that China would neither participate in nor accept the case. Vice foreign minister Liu Zhenmin added that the case would not affect China\u2019s sovereign claims in the seas. China insists it has sovereign rights to nearly all of the South China Sea, a strategic waterway through which about a third of all the world\u2019s traded oil passes. Following a stand-off between Chinese ships and the weak Filipino navy in 2012, China took control of a rich fishing ground called Scarborough Shoal that is within the Philippines\u2019 exclusive economic zone.China has also undertaken giant reclamation activities, raising fears it will use artificial islands to build new military outposts close to the Philippines and other claimants. Related: China may fear reputation damage more than military threats over South China Sea | Ashley Townshend The tribunal \u2013 set up in 1899 to resolve international disputes between countries \u2013 stressed on Thursday its ruling did not yet go to the heart of the merits of Manila\u2019s case, which was first filed in 2013.A new hearing will now be held behind closed doors in The Hague, and a final ruling is not expected until next year.The tribunal agreed it would take up seven of the 15 submissions made by Manila, in particular whether Scarborough Shoal and low-tide areas like Mischief Reef can be considered islands, as China contends.It will also consider whether China has interfered with Philippine fishing activities at Scarborough Shoal.But it set aside seven more pointed claims, mainly accusing Beijing of acting unlawfully, to be considered at the next hearing on the actual merits of Manila\u2019s case.In a July hearing in the Hague, Philippine foreign secretary Albert del Rosario warned the integrity of UN maritime laws was at stake.China\u2019s behaviour had become increasingly \u201caggressive\u201d and negotiations had proved futile, del Rosario said.But the court on Thursday also directed Manila to narrow down the scope of its final request that it should order that \u201cChina shall desist from further unlawful claims and activities.\u201dIn Washington, a senior US defense official hailed the tribunal\u2019s decision as victory for international law.\u201cWe of course welcome the decision of the panel. This demonstrates the relevance of international law to the territorial conflicts in the South China Sea,\u201d the defense official said.", "tags": ["South China Sea", "US news", "US military", "US foreign policy", "China", "Philippines", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China warns US it could spark war with 'provocative acts' in South China Sea"},{"date": "2015-11-04T13:24:41Z", "country": "china", "content": "An unprecedented meeting between the leaders of China and Taiwan, arranged at short notice for Saturday in Singapore, is under fire from opposition politicians in Taipei who say it is a blatant attempt by Beijing to influence the island\u2019s forthcoming presidential and legislative elections.But the talks between Xi Jinping and Ma Ying-jeou, who is soon to retire, will also be seen as part of China\u2019s anticipated pushback following last week\u2019s high-profile American naval challenge to its island-building activities in the South China Sea. China initiated the meeting, ending more than half a century of ostracism at the highest level.China regards Taiwan as a renegade province and seeks its reunification with the mainland. But the island has enjoyed de facto independence since the Chinese civil war ended in 1949, underpinned by American military might. Like other countries in the region, Taiwan is in dispute with Beijing over claims in the South China Sea.  Related: Historic meeting of Chinese and Taiwanese presidents prompts hope and suspicion China-Taiwan tensions have eased somewhat during Ma\u2019s time in office as his nationalist party, the Kuomintang (KMT), has expanded cross-strait trade and tourism. But the number of Taiwanese favouring reunification has been steadily falling, while suspicion of Beijing\u2019s expansionist ambitions has grown. Opinion polls suggest the opposition Democratic Progressive party (DPP), led for the first time by a woman, Tsai Ing-wen, is on course to win the presidency in January when Ma stands down. The party is traditionally seen as favouring independence, or at the very least maintaining the status quo. A DPP success would undoubtedly anger Xi, who has said the Taiwan issue cannot remain unresolved indefinitely.Tsai complained that the announcement of the meeting came out of the blue. \u201cTo let the people know in such a hasty and chaotic manner is damaging to Taiwan\u2019s democracy,\u201d she said. The DPP spokesman Cheng Yun-peng said: \u201cHow can people not think of this as a political operation intended to affect the election?\u201dYet if Ma is thought to be kowtowing to Xi, the Singapore meeting could backfire by stiffening opposition to China\u2019s advances. Large-scale KMT defeats in local elections last year were attributed to a backlash, especially among younger voters, against the party\u2019s perceived cosying up to Beijing. China says it has no intention of interfering in the 16 January polls, unlike in 1996 when it launched war games to try to intimidate voters. Rejecting claims that Ma was selling out Taiwan, officials said he would make no deals, private or public, and would concentrate on promoting \u201cthe peaceful development of cross-strait relations\u201d. Since neither leader recognises the other as a head of state, the two men will address each other \u201cMr\u201d. Related: South-east Asian ministers cancel joint accord over South China Sea dispute Xi\u2019s sudden decision to meet Ma may be linked to escalating tension with the US. China claims sovereign rights in almost all the South China Sea, a vital international trade route. A meeting of Association of South-East Asian Nations (Asean) defence ministers ended in disarray this week when it failed to agree a joint communique because of the disputes.After no headway was made in talks between US and Chinese naval commanders on last week\u2019s Spratly islands incident involving a US warship, Ash Carter, the US defence secretary, pointedly took a South China Sea \u201cfreedom of navigation\u201d cruise on Thursday aboard a US aircraft carrier.On Friday in another apparent attempt to remind weaker neighbours of the importance of a good relationship with China, Xi will visit Vietnam, which is also involved in the South China Sea disputes and has clashed with Beijing over offshore oil drilling rights. Washington has been assiduously courting Hanoi as part its regional power struggle with Beijing. Observers say Xi may hope to mend fences and strengthen pro-China leadership contenders prior to Vietnam\u2019s Communist party national congress next year. ", "tags": ["China", "Taiwan", "South China Sea", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China initiates Taiwan meeting as South China Sea tensions rise"},{"date": "2015-12-29T10:43:18Z", "country": "china", "content": "A new anti-terror law in China gives the government the explicit power to demand technology firms decrypt electronic messages stored on their servers, sparking concern \u2013 and confusion \u2013 from foreign companies.The law as enacted, however, falls short of a draft bill which would have required computer companies to explicitly install \u201cbackdoors\u201d on their devices, allowing the Chinese government privileged access to the users\u2019 communications.Defending the law, the Chinese government pointed to legislation proposed in Western nations, such as Britain\u2019s draft investigatory powers bill, which grants similar powers to the UK government.Speaking after China\u2019s largely rubber-stamp parliament passed the law on Sunday, Li Shouwei, deputy head of the parliament\u2019s criminal law division under the legislative affairs committee, said China was simply doing what other Western nations already do in asking technology firms to help fight terror.\u201cThis rule accords with the actual work need of fighting terrorism and is basically the same as what other major countries in the world do,\u201d Li told reporters.This will not affect the normal operation of tech companies and they have nothing to fear in terms of having backdoors installed or losing intellectual property rights, he added.Adding to the similarities between the British bill, known as the Snooper\u2019s Charter, and the Chinese legislation is the confusion they have sparked amongst tech firms. China\u2019s law is vague about what, exactly, will be demanded when it comes to breaking encryption, and Recode\u2019s Dawn Chmielewski writes that \u201cit could take six months for regulations to emerge that make the government\u2019s intent clear.\u201dThe British bill has faced criticism from a number of technology companies for its anti-encryption stances. In December, Apple explicitly appealed to the government to rethink the law, arguing that \u201cit would be wrong to weaken security for hundreds of millions of law-abiding customers so that it will also be weaker for the very few who pose a threat\u201d. Technology firms have warned that where Britain leads, nations with weaker human rights records may follow, citing the UK\u2019s example before cracking down on protected communications in their own nations.China\u2019s new law also restricts the right of media to report on details of terror attacks, including a provision that media and social media cannot report on details of terror activities that might lead to imitation, nor show scenes that are \u201ccruel and inhuman\u201d.", "tags": ["Encryption", "China", "Technology", "Surveillance", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China introduces its own 'snooper's charter'"},{"date": "2015-10-06T12:21:47Z", "country": "china", "content": "\u201cThere\u2019s a bit of a British attitude which treats China as a sweatshop on the Pearl River,\u201d George Osborne opined during a trip to the world\u2019s second largest economy in 2013.\u201cOne of the things I\u2019m trying to do this week in China is change British attitudes,\u201d he said.The chancellor\u2019s message appears to have eluded the health secretary, Jeremy Hunt. On Tuesday, citing his Chinese wife as inspiration, Hunt suggested Britons needed to pull up their socks and work hard \u201cin the way that Asian economies are prepared to work hard\u201d. Related: Hunt: tax credit cuts will make Britons work like Chinese or Americans The answer, as might be expected in a country with more than 760 million workers, is complex.The average Chinese worker puts in somewhere between 2,000 and 2,200 hours each year, Wang Qi, a researcher at Beijing Normal University, told the Wall Street Journal last year.That compares to a UK average of 1,677 hours last year, according to figures from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development.But Chinese work hours have been falling for at least three decades, said Li Chang\u2019an, a labour economist at Beijing\u2019s University of International Business and Economics. \u201cSince the 1980s and 1990s, Chinese workers have been working shorter and shorter hours,\u201d Li said, pointing to improved labour laws, improved productivity and the introduction of two-day weekends.\u201cWe visit many factories every year,\u201d Li added. \u201cIn most, working conditions are improving [and] salaries increasing while working hours are decreasing.\u201dPerhaps unsurprisingly, China\u2019s hardest grafters are its impoverished and often exploited migrant workers, the Wall Street Journal found.China\u2019s average migrant worker worked 8.8 hours each day in 2013, it claimed, citing official statistics. Nearly 85% of migrants worked more than 44 hours a week, earning an average of just \u00a3270 per month.The consequences of such relentless work can be dire. Reports in China\u2019s state-run media last year claimed that a staggering 600,000 citizens were dying from over-work each year.A 2012 editorial in the China Daily newspaper complained: \u201cEmployers cajole, persuade, goad or force their workers to work overtime because they want to perform better in China\u2019s highly competitive market to ensure that they don\u2019t go out of business.\u201dBetter-off Chinese people are suffering, too. A report by the Boston Consulting Group claimed that half of China\u2019s more affluent classes now complained of health issues stemming from \u201cwork pressures, family obligations, and long work hours\u201d.\u201cCommon complaints were insomnia, fatigue, a lack of energy, obesity, and frequent illness,\u201d it warned. \u201cThe incidence of these complaints is growing fast, especially among younger people.\u201dBut all those man-hours do not necessarily pay off. Chinese experts have urged employers to reduce workloads as a way of boosting productivity. \u201cWorking overtime is not good for workers\u2019 health and does not improve productivity and efficiency,\u201d said Li, the Beijing-based labour economist.\u201cChinese workers have to work longer hours than their peers from the more developed countries, such as the UK and US, because China\u2019s production efficiency still lags significantly far behind those countries,\u201d he said. \u201cAs we are still at the developmental stage of chasing GDP growth and increasing total production, long working hours will persist for a certain time.\u201d Additional reporting by Luna Lin", "tags": ["China", "Conservative conference 2015", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Work-life balance", "Money", "UK news", "Work & careers", "Conservatives", "Politics"], "title": "How hard does China work?"},{"date": "2015-12-23T09:00:00Z", "country": "china", "content": "After a strange turn of events, Zanna and her best friend Deeba follow the trail of a broken umbrella to a wheel. Once the wheel is turned, the two girls find themselves in a strange place called Un Lun Dun \u2013 the place where all of the lost and broken things of London end up. Its here they find flying buses, a bridge that leads to anywhere and a group of people who live on the roofs that aren\u2019t all they seem. Not to mention the evil Smog, a giant cloud of pollution that threatens to overtake the entire abcity. (That\u2019s what Un Lun Dun is. There are others, like Helsunki, Romeless, Lost Angeles, Sans Francisco and No York, to name a few.)This book was a genius piece of fiction. The illustrations (drawn also by Mieville) showed just how strange and brilliant this world was (it must be good \u2013 it has a library so big that you need explorers to go in and find the book you want). I loved every single tiny detail of the descriptions and the drawings and the crazy characters that make up a motley bunch of main characters. I have to say, my personal favourite is the milk carton named Curdle!With Un Lun Dun, Mieville created an adventurous, exciting book without the romance and gory details that line so many teen bookshelves today. It was relaxing and enjoyable without rambling on or becoming tedious. I was hanging on to every play-on words.Definitely one of the best books I have read in a long while.", "tags": ["Children and teenagers", "Teen books", "Books", "Culture", "Children's fantasy books (children's and teens)", "China Mi\u00e9ville"], "title": "Un Lun Dun by China Mi\u00e9ville \u2013 review"},{"date": "2015-11-20T08:00:05Z", "country": "china", "content": "The Chinese version of Top Gear has been watched by more than 200 million viewers on TV and online, with the most popular episode to date the presenters racing across England, in vehicles including a tank, to attend a football match.The second series of the Chinese version of the BBC\u2019s Top Gear, with a Taiwanese actor-singer, a TV host and a former top executive at an internet firm taking the place of the, now former, British hosts Jeremy Clarkson, James May and Richard Hammond, launched on pay-TV cable and satellite service Shanghai Dragon TV on 19 October.The series, which airs across China and Taiwan, has so far attracted an average TV audience to date of 9 million viewers tuning into the first scheduled broadcast of each episode.The fifth and most recent episode \u2013 in which the presenters race across the UK in vehicles not available in China in a battle for a single ticket to Manchester United v Everton \u2013 attracted a series high 11 million viewers.The TV viewing has been amplified by a huge online audience of 173 million across the series so far, aggregating figures from China\u2019s eight biggest video platforms including Tencent, Youku, Tudou, Sohu, Iqiyi and Baofeng.Paul Dempsey, president of global markets at BBC Worldwide, used the success in China to highlight the strength of the Top Gear franchise.Some observers question whether the loss of Clarkson, Hammond and May may damage the popularity and sales potential of the overall brand which makes about \u00a350m in revenues annually.\u201cThe success of Top Gear in China once again demonstrates the unique appeal of the world\u2019s favourite motoring entertainment show,\u201d said Dempsey. \u201cIt\u2019s also testament to a successful collaboration between our own UK producers and their Chinese counterparts who have recreated a British institution for a whole new audience.\u201dThe collaboration was perhaps not so successful for series one, which averaged about half the TV viewing and drew only 33 million online viewers in total, with all three hosts changed and elements of the format of the show overhauled for the second series.The BBC also gave the second series a major marketing push with a 30ft high \u201cBig Stig\u201d given a \u201cChinese visa\u201d for six months to tour 10 cities across China.The local hosts will appear in a Chinese version of Top Gear Live, the arena event affiliated with the TV show, scheduled for Shanghai next spring.The new-look British version of the hit BBC2 motoring show will debut next year with DJ and TV presenter Chris Evans as the lead host.The success of Top Gear has outstripped that of the third series of Sherlock, although the show has less China-wide appeal as it is the English version, which notched up about 100 million views online.Subtitled episodes of Downton Abbey are reportedly watched by 160 million viewers, while US show The Big Bang Theory, supposedly the most popular foreign show in China, has been viewed more than 1.5bn times on video sites.The biggest hits in China have been versions of entertainment shows such as China\u2019s Got Talent, a local version of Simon Cowell\u2019s ITV programme, for which viewing fihgures top 400 million an episode.", "tags": ["BBC Worldwide", "BBC", "Media", "Television industry", "China", "World news", "Taiwan", "Top Gear", "Television", "Culture", "Digital media"], "title": "Top Gear China attracts 200 million viewers"},{"date": "2015-11-09T04:58:38Z", "country": "china", "content": "Residents of north-eastern China donned gas masks and locked themselves indoors on Sunday after their homes were enveloped by some of the worst levels of smog on record. Levels of PM2.5, a tiny airborne particulate linked to cancer and heart disease, soared in Liaoning province as northern China began burning coal to heat homes at the start of the winter.Fairyland or doomsday? Heaviest #smog this year shrouds NE Chinese city of Shenyang, PM 2.5 hit over 1400 pic.twitter.com/GLo82Abk4RNorth East #China horrendous pollution levels at the moment. PM2.5 should be under 50 and in Shenyang it is... pic.twitter.com/WGOeiiKs7f In Shenyang, Liaoning\u2019s capital, visibility levels plummeted to as little as 100 metres, the state broadcaster CCTV said.\u6c88\u9633\u6628\u542f\u52a8\u91cd\u6c61\u67d3\u5929\u6c14\u4e00\u7ea7\uff08\u7ea2\u8272\uff09\u9884\u8b66 https://t.co/OcsqhQRvxW pic.twitter.com/tT5HOXGWqh China\u2019s official news agency, Xinhua, published an apocalyptic gallery of images showing the country\u2019s latest smog crisis alongside the headline: \u201cFairyland or doomsday?\u201dFairyland or doomsday? Heaviest #smog this year shrouds NE Chinese city of Shenyang, PM 2.5 hit over 1400 pic.twitter.com/GLo82Abk4R In some areas of Shenyang, PM2.5 readings reportedly surpassed 1,400 micrograms per cubic metre, which is about 56 times the levels considered safe by the World Health Organisation.Thick smog blankets NE. China\u2019s Liaoning Province; visibility in Shenyang city within 100 meters pic.twitter.com/sv4qll9iNo \u201cThe air stings and makes my eyes and throat feel sore when I\u2019m outdoors,\u201d one woman, who had ventured out to buy a face mask, was quoted as saying. \u201cAs for what exactly we should do, I don\u2019t know,\u201d she added.By Monday afternoon there had been a slight improvement, although air quality remained at \u201chazardous\u201d levels in Shenyang, an industrial city of about 8 million inhabitants.Shenyang air quality index over the past 24 hours. https://t.co/2v4KNF3xSQ pic.twitter.com/DV1XZ6eEDvThe Associated Press said Sunday\u2019s smog represented one of the worst episodes of air pollution recorded in China since authorities began releasing air quality data in 2013.There was indignation on social media as China confronted its latest \u201cairpocalypse\u201d.\u201cThe government knows how severe the smog problem is, so why haven\u2019t they tackled it?\u201d one critic wrote on Weibo, China\u2019s Twitter.\u201cWhat\u2019s the point of having an environmental protection department? The precondition for developing the economy is not damaging the environment. Our leaders are all well educated. Can\u2019t they understand this simple truth?\u201dOthers reacted with resignation. \u201cOther than reporting it, what can the government do?\u201d Shenyang, a major industrial centre since the days of Mao Zedong, has been attempting to clean up its act in recent years by relocating factories and starting to use natural gas instead of coal to heat homes.But on Monday doctors in Shenyang were dealing with the consequences of the latest bout of toxic pollution to hit their city.Yang Shenjia, who works at the Liaoning Jinqiu Hospital, said there had been a sudden influx of patients suffering from breathing complaints over the past two days. \u201cThe respiratory department\u2019s inpatient wards are full,\u201d the doctor told Xinhua.Additional reporting by Luna Lin", "tags": ["China", "Pollution", "Asia Pacific", "Environment", "World news"], "title": "Airpocalypse now: China pollution reaching record levels"},{"date": "2015-10-22T18:59:19Z", "country": "china", "content": "Far from being \u201cmind full, heart empty\u201d, compassion and acceptance are central to all schools of mindfulness (I\u2019d rather live life to the full than be mindful, 21 October). Was Mr Dakers not paying attention when these essential components of mindful practice were being taught?Hannah and Mick CollinsNorwich\u2022 After observing the British establishment\u2019s deferential behaviour during the visit of Xi Jinping (Report, 21 October), I now fully understand what the Chinese word kowtow really means.Stan LabovitchWindsor, Berkshire\u2022 Thanks for telling us which was Joan Leslie in the photo of her with James Cagney (Obituary, 20 October). We\u2019d never have guessed.Richard WoodToddington, Bedfordshire\u2022 Join the debate \u2013 email guardian.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Foreign policy", "Xi Jinping", "China", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "UK news", "Mindfulness", "Life and style"], "title": "The week that Britain kowtowed to China | Letters"},{"date": "2015-10-06T15:00:09Z", "country": "china", "content": "To say this hasn\u2019t been the greatest couple of months for China would be an understatement. But, despite the current gloom, innovation still stands strong. Regularly unique, sometimes surprising, often completely different to anything you\u2019ve seen in the west, China\u2019s approach to marketing and social media has been an incredible journey over the last few years. We\u2019ve been following this progress closely, with the team in our Shanghai office, and we\u2019ve recently published a report into the digital, social and mobile landscape in China. There were some big numbers in there, with the headline stats focused predominantly on mobile and social growth. There are now 574 million mobile social media users in China, up 15 million since this time last year, as well as the fact that there are now 659 million social media users \u2013 more than the US and Europe combined. But what does all this tell marketers about China, and how to approach it? Here are the five key points to consider when communicating with a Chinese audience. Related: Luxury brands must redefine the way they do business It\u2019s obvious that the platforms that dominate in China are markedly different to ones that marketers are familiar with elsewhere \u2013 even those in their Asian neighbours. However, it\u2019s not just the platforms that are different; the ways that Chinese netizens use social channels is also markedly different, and marketers need to carefully adapt their approaches for China\u2019s cultural and societal idiosyncrasies as much as for its technological differences. One size does not fit all when it comes to China.In particular, the growing popularity of chat apps in China presents a new set of opportunities for marketers. Many of the conversations that take place on these platforms are more private in nature, taking place between individuals and small groups (versus the public environments that western marketers will know from Facebook and Twitter). In order to take advantage of the intimate nature of these one-to-one conversations, marketers will need to explore new approaches to social media and content marketing, ensuring that the tactics they employ make it easy for audiences to find and consume content on one platform (eg video-sharing services like Youku or Tudou), and then share that content via chat apps. This will require greater emphasis on highly engaging content and organic sharing, rather than an approach that relies on paid media to push mediocre content to the masses.While western marketers gear up for the big pre-Christmas shopping days of the year, Black Friday and Cyber Monday at the end of November, the big dates in the Chinese calendar happen at different times. Singles\u2019 Day, a shopping festival that also happens in November, targets people who are single (as you might have guessed) and offers them an excuse to buy themselves gifts in celebration of their single status. It\u2019s already become hugely popular among young Chinese people, and is now the country\u2019s largest shopping day of the year, despite the fact that it\u2019s not a cultural tradition, but the recent commercial brainchild of e-commerce giant Alibaba. Sales on Alibaba\u2019s various sites exceeded $9.3bn (\u00a35.85bn) in just one day last on Singles\u2019 Day last year, and there\u2019s every chance that number will pass $10 billion on 11 November this year. Retailers start marketing Singles\u2019 Day at least a month before the day, and on the day itself, offer big discounts (sometimes up to 50%) on products to draw consumers in. Think of it as a bit like a Boxing Day shopping mentality, but without the hangover and leftover turkey. Meanwhile, lunar new year is another big commercial festival in China, and inspires the sort of commercial activity that western marketers would associate with Christmas.As with any market, peer-to-peer recommendations are the holy grail of marketing, and China is no different in this respect. Indeed, given the highly regulated nature of the country\u2019s more traditional mass media, word-of-mouth is even more critical in China \u2013 a fact supported by McKinsey research. For this reason, recommendations both offline and on social networks such as WeChat, QQ and Sina Weibo have become \u201cthe most important factor in the online shopping decision,\u201d according to another McKinsey report featured in China Daily. Given this behaviour, marketers must start to explore how the dynamics of social referral work in China for their specific audiences and industry, and use that to move from social engagement to social conversion.In addition to general online purchases, one trend that our report picked up on is the willingness to buy products on mobile \u2013 20% bought a product on a mobile device over a month (2% higher than the UK and US), with 15% claiming to have researched a product to buy on their phone. M-commerce is clearly big but what are retailers doing to help spur this along? Despite their poor standing in the minds of many western marketers, the QR code is a daily essential for brands in China, and the distinctive black and white images can be found on billboards and products all over the country. This is partly thanks to WeChat\u2019s adoption \u2013 using a QR code and a WeChat wallet, consumers can buy goods from physical stores in China instead of using cash or a credit card. This year, Alibaba launched \u201cdotless visual codes\u201d for brands to place on product packaging so that consumers can use their phone to check a product\u2019s authenticity and get information, discounts and recommendations based on their preferences. Just because something is out of fashion in the west, don\u2019t assume the same is true for China.Simon Kemp, regional managing partner, Asia at We Are SocialTo get weekly news analysis, job alerts and event notifications direct to your inbox, sign up free for Media and Tech Network membership.All Guardian Media and Tech Network content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled \u201cBrought to you by\u201d \u2013 find out more here.", "tags": ["Media & Tech Network", "Marketing & PR", "Digital media", "Apps"], "title": "Marketing in China: a five-step guide"},{"date": "2015-10-30T02:29:37Z", "country": "china", "content": "China has warned the US that its \u201cdangerous and provocative acts\u201d in the South China Sea could lead to \u201ca minor incident that sparks war\u201d.China\u2019s naval commander, Admiral Wu Shengli, issued the warning to his American counterpart Admiral John Richardson during video conference talks on Thursday aimed at defusing tension in the region, according to a Chinese naval statement.  Related: Neither China nor the US will give way in this South China Sea showdown | Jonathan Fenby \u201cIf the United States continues with these kinds of dangerous, provocative acts, there could well be a seriously pressing situation between frontline forces from both sides on the sea and in the air, or even a minor incident that sparks war,\u201d the statement paraphrased Wu as saying. \u201cI hope the US side cherishes the good situation between the Chinese and US navies that has not come easily and avoids these kinds of incidents from happening again,\u201d Wu said. The high-level talks followed mounting international alarm in the wake of the decision by Washington to send a US destroyer close to artificial islands built by Beijing in the South China Sea.According to the Pentagon, however, the hour-long talks had been \u201cproductive\u201d.The admirals discussed \u201cfreedom of navigation operations, the relationship between the two navies including pending port visits, senior leader engagement and the importance of maintaining an ongoing dialogue\u201d, a Pentagon spokesman said.Navy spokesman Lieutenant Tim Hawkins said the conversation on Thursday had been \u201cprofessional and productive\u201d.The USS Lassen guided-missile destroyer sailed within 12 nautical miles of at least one of the land formations claimed by China in the disputed Spratly Islands chain on Tuesday.The move prompted the Chinese government to summon the US ambassador in Beijing and denounce what it called a threat to its sovereignty.The US said after Thursday\u2019s talks that the Chinese had expressed no desire to cancel scheduled visits by Chinese ships to a Florida port next week and that an upcoming visit to China by the commander of the US Pacific Command would still take place.\u201cWe look forward to continue this dialogue,\u201d an official said.Wu and Richardson, the US navy operations chief, had agreed to speak again via video conference later this year.Tensions have mounted since China transformed reefs in the area \u2013 also claimed by several neighbouring countries \u2013 into small islands capable of supporting military facilities, a move the US says threatens freedom of navigation.Washington has repeatedly said it does not recognise Chinese claims to territorial waters around the artificial islands and reiterated that it would send more warships to sail close to the controversial islets.But in a move that is likely to trigger fury in Beijing and reignite tension in the region, an international tribunal ruled on Thursday that it had the power to hear a case brought by the Philippines over the disputed seas.Manila has insisted the UN convention on the law of the sea, which the Philippines and China have both ratified, should be used to resolve the bitter territorial row over isolated reefs and islets.China has refused to participate in the proceedings, arguing the Permanent Court of Arbitration \u2013 which is more than a century old and based in The Hague \u2013 had no jurisdiction over the case.\u201cReviewing the claims submitted by the Philippines, the tribunal has rejected the argument\u201d by China that the \u201cdispute is actually about sovereignty over the islands in the South China Sea and therefore beyond the tribunal\u2019s jurisdiction\u201d, the court said in a statement.Instead, the court ruled the case reflects \u201cdisputes between the two states concerning the interpretation or application of the convention\u201d - something which falls within its remit.A senior Chinese diplomat said on Friday that China would neither participate in nor accept the case. Vice foreign minister Liu Zhenmin added that the case would not affect China\u2019s sovereign claims in the seas. China insists it has sovereign rights to nearly all of the South China Sea, a strategic waterway through which about a third of all the world\u2019s traded oil passes. Following a stand-off between Chinese ships and the weak Filipino navy in 2012, China took control of a rich fishing ground called Scarborough Shoal that is within the Philippines\u2019 exclusive economic zone.China has also undertaken giant reclamation activities, raising fears it will use artificial islands to build new military outposts close to the Philippines and other claimants. Related: China may fear reputation damage more than military threats over South China Sea | Ashley Townshend The tribunal \u2013 set up in 1899 to resolve international disputes between countries \u2013 stressed on Thursday its ruling did not yet go to the heart of the merits of Manila\u2019s case, which was first filed in 2013.A new hearing will now be held behind closed doors in The Hague, and a final ruling is not expected until next year.The tribunal agreed it would take up seven of the 15 submissions made by Manila, in particular whether Scarborough Shoal and low-tide areas like Mischief Reef can be considered islands, as China contends.It will also consider whether China has interfered with Philippine fishing activities at Scarborough Shoal.But it set aside seven more pointed claims, mainly accusing Beijing of acting unlawfully, to be considered at the next hearing on the actual merits of Manila\u2019s case.In a July hearing in the Hague, Philippine foreign secretary Albert del Rosario warned the integrity of UN maritime laws was at stake.China\u2019s behaviour had become increasingly \u201caggressive\u201d and negotiations had proved futile, del Rosario said.But the court on Thursday also directed Manila to narrow down the scope of its final request that it should order that \u201cChina shall desist from further unlawful claims and activities.\u201dIn Washington, a senior US defense official hailed the tribunal\u2019s decision as victory for international law.\u201cWe of course welcome the decision of the panel. This demonstrates the relevance of international law to the territorial conflicts in the South China Sea,\u201d the defense official said.", "tags": ["South China Sea", "US news", "US military", "US foreign policy", "China", "Philippines", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "China warns US it could spark war with 'provocative acts' in South China Sea"},{"date": "2015-10-29T05:42:17Z", "country": "china", "content": "Australia and China are set to proceed with planned joint military exercises next week, with the Coalition indicating the US \u201cfreedom of navigation\u201d patrol through the South China Sea that angered Beijing has had no effect on the timing.Washington infuriated Beijing by sailing the guided-missile destroyer USS Lassen within 12 nautical miles (22.2km) of the disputed Spratly archipelago on Tuesday in a challenge to China\u2019s territorial claims. Related: How China's artificial islands led to tension in the South China Sea Australia \u2013 which responded to the American patrol by declaring its \u201cstrong support\u201d for freedom of navigation \u2013 faces strategic challenges in balancing its long-standing alliance with the US alongside its interest in bolstering ties with China, its biggest trading partner and a rising global influence.Australia\u2019s defence minister, Marise Payne, confirmed on Thursday that planned military exercises with China were set to proceed. This was a rejection of some media reports that they had been delayed.\u201cHMAS ships Stuart and Arunta will visit Zhanjiang, in Guangdong province, China, soon during their north Asia deployment,\u201d she said.\u201cThe Royal Australian Navy has a long history of engagement with regional navies and regularly conducts port visits and exercises, including in China.\u201cThere have been no changes or delays to the schedule of the HMAS Arunta and HMAS Stuart since the United States activity in the South China Sea on 27 October 2015.\u201dBut in a sign that the government was keeping its options open for future patrol operations, Payne added that Australia had \u201ca legitimate interest in the maintenance of peace and stability, respect for international law, unimpeded trade and freedom of navigation and overflight in the South China Sea\u201d.\u201cAs they do now, Australian vessels and aircraft will continue to exercise rights under international law to freedom of navigation and freedom of overflight,\u201d she said. Related: South China Sea: Beijing 'not frightened to fight a war' after US move Peter Jennings, a former deputy secretary for strategy at the Department of Defence, said it was not unusual for Australia to conduct exercises with China.\u201cThey tend to be at the smaller end of naval exercises, which reflects the fact that while we have a defence relationship with China, it\u2019s not especially well developed and by no means as close as we have with many other countries,\u201d said Jennings, who is now the executive director the Australian Strategic Policy Institute, a thinktank.\u201cThey\u2019re important things to do. It reflects an attempt to try to develop a normalised defence cooperation relationship with China.\u201dJennings said Australia should consider conducting a US-style freedom of navigation mission in the South China Sea \u201cat some stage\u201d.\u201cWe have a critical interest in that particular part of the world because around two-thirds of our merchandise travels through it,\u201d he said. \u201cThat\u2019s not just up to China; it\u2019s also to Japan and South Korea, so this [issue] is not something on which Australia can really afford to take a low profile.\u201dThe rise of China is key strategic challenge for Australia. The government has sought to bolster its economic ties with China, striking a free trade agreement that triggered a political dispute in Canberra this year, but also joined the US-led Trans-Pacific Partnership, a 12-country trade pact that does not include China.The US president, Barack Obama, and his Chinese counterpart, Xi Jinping, addressed their countries\u2019 plans for the Asia-Pacific region when they visited Australia in November last year for the G20 summit. Obama called on China to pursue peaceful development and adhere to the same rules as other countries, while Xi used a speech to the Australian parliament to assert China\u2019s dominant position in the region while declaring it would seek to resolve disputes peacefully.", "tags": ["South China Sea", "China", "Australia news", "Royal Australian Navy", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "US news", "Coalition", "Australian politics"], "title": "Australia-China naval exercises still on despite US patrol in South China Sea"},