[{"date": "2008-03-14T00:19:40Z", "country": "india", "content": "Sex has always been the touchiest of subjects for Indian cinema, but Aids ought to be a Bollywood film producer's dream. It ticks all the right storyline boxes: a cast of untouchables; doomed love; tragic consequences of family-busting proportions. But while it might seem a wonder there aren't more all-singing, all-dancing Indian films on the subject, the notion of Indian films depicting the risks of unsafe sex seems as detached from reality as a typical Bollywood plot, in which people have sex while fully clothed, drenched in monsoon rains beaneath a waterfall or - a recent occurrence in Bollywood movies - in private swimming pools.But four new shorts - Migration, Blood Brothers, Positive and Prarambha, produced under the umbrella of Mira Nair's Aids Jaago (Aids Awake) film project and directed by some of India's leading film-makers - have started looking at sex and its attendant dangers in a different way. In these films, Indians, married and unmarried, gay and straight, poor and posh, have tender, troubled, even hungry sex - but with the warning that when it's unprotected it could lead to HIV and Aids.The films deliver their message with varying degrees of subtlety. Two are more like stylish public service announcements than movies. Nair's own Migration follows a farmer who is forced to find work in Mumbai and brings home a nasty souvenir, while Vishal Bhardwaj's Blood Brothers is about an advertising executive who may have traded in his perfect life for an unprotected one-night stand. Positive, by Farhan Akhtar, plays with the kitsch Indian imagery of family life, using some of those lovely, bright school pictures of rosy-cheeked children and their happy, hard-working parents. But Santosh Sivan's Prarambha (The Beginning) is the most engaging of the bunch; it stars Prabhu Deva (seen as India's Michael Jackson for his dance moves) as a trucker who gives up unsafe sex and becomes the unlikely champion of HIV outcasts. It's knowingly packed with every Bollywood cliche - from the cute, kohl-eyed orphan, through comic baddies, to a terrifically implausible finale, all set to music. In 12 minutes, it manages to be the perfect Bollywood film.However, these aren't the first Indian films to touch on Aids. In 2004, the Indian actress-turned-director Revathi made Phir Milenge (We Will Meet Again), starring Celebrity Big Brother survivor Shilpa Shetty. The film bombed: India wasn't ready to wake up to Aids and was still reeling from foreigners, such as Bill Gates, predicting that there would be 25 million Indians living with HIV by 2010.Thankfully, the figures haven't turned out quite so badly (about 2.5 million-3 million in 2007) and, this time, the influx of money to publicise the risks of HIV (Aids Jaago is funded by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation) and the bigger stars in the Aids Jaago series (Shiney Ahuja, Raima Sen, Sameera Reddy, Irrfan Khan, Siddharth) should do more to raise awareness than Phir Melenge could manage.That said, Aids Jaago won't revolutionise Aids awareness in India (though there's a brilliantly catchy and informative advert on Indian regional TV with the power to do that: search YouTube for Condom Song - Telugu). But in a country that loves film passionately, it's helping to explain the nature of HIV to ever more people, possibly making more of an impact on middle-class cinema-goers who thought they were safe from Aids. And, importantly for Indian film history, these four films really could open the floodgates for the portrayal of the fullness of sex in mainstream Indian cinema. Hooray for Bollywood!\u00b7 Aids Jaago screens on Sunday at the ICA, London and March 22 at Watermans, Brentford", "tags": ["Film", "Culture"], "title": "Apala Chowdhury on Aids and Bollywood"},{"date": "2008-03-14T00:19:40Z", "country": "india", "content": "Sex has always been the touchiest of subjects for Indian cinema, but Aids ought to be a Bollywood film producer's dream. It ticks all the right storyline boxes: a cast of untouchables; doomed love; tragic consequences of family-busting proportions. But while it might seem a wonder there aren't more all-singing, all-dancing Indian films on the subject, the notion of Indian films depicting the risks of unsafe sex seems as detached from reality as a typical Bollywood plot, in which people have sex while fully clothed, drenched in monsoon rains beaneath a waterfall or - a recent occurrence in Bollywood movies - in private swimming pools.But four new shorts - Migration, Blood Brothers, Positive and Prarambha, produced under the umbrella of Mira Nair's Aids Jaago (Aids Awake) film project and directed by some of India's leading film-makers - have started looking at sex and its attendant dangers in a different way. In these films, Indians, married and unmarried, gay and straight, poor and posh, have tender, troubled, even hungry sex - but with the warning that when it's unprotected it could lead to HIV and Aids.The films deliver their message with varying degrees of subtlety. Two are more like stylish public service announcements than movies. Nair's own Migration follows a farmer who is forced to find work in Mumbai and brings home a nasty souvenir, while Vishal Bhardwaj's Blood Brothers is about an advertising executive who may have traded in his perfect life for an unprotected one-night stand. Positive, by Farhan Akhtar, plays with the kitsch Indian imagery of family life, using some of those lovely, bright school pictures of rosy-cheeked children and their happy, hard-working parents. But Santosh Sivan's Prarambha (The Beginning) is the most engaging of the bunch; it stars Prabhu Deva (seen as India's Michael Jackson for his dance moves) as a trucker who gives up unsafe sex and becomes the unlikely champion of HIV outcasts. It's knowingly packed with every Bollywood cliche - from the cute, kohl-eyed orphan, through comic baddies, to a terrifically implausible finale, all set to music. In 12 minutes, it manages to be the perfect Bollywood film.However, these aren't the first Indian films to touch on Aids. In 2004, the Indian actress-turned-director Revathi made Phir Milenge (We Will Meet Again), starring Celebrity Big Brother survivor Shilpa Shetty. The film bombed: India wasn't ready to wake up to Aids and was still reeling from foreigners, such as Bill Gates, predicting that there would be 25 million Indians living with HIV by 2010.Thankfully, the figures haven't turned out quite so badly (about 2.5 million-3 million in 2007) and, this time, the influx of money to publicise the risks of HIV (Aids Jaago is funded by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation) and the bigger stars in the Aids Jaago series (Shiney Ahuja, Raima Sen, Sameera Reddy, Irrfan Khan, Siddharth) should do more to raise awareness than Phir Melenge could manage.That said, Aids Jaago won't revolutionise Aids awareness in India (though there's a brilliantly catchy and informative advert on Indian regional TV with the power to do that: search YouTube for Condom Song - Telugu). But in a country that loves film passionately, it's helping to explain the nature of HIV to ever more people, possibly making more of an impact on middle-class cinema-goers who thought they were safe from Aids. And, importantly for Indian film history, these four films really could open the floodgates for the portrayal of the fullness of sex in mainstream Indian cinema. Hooray for Bollywood!\u00b7 Aids Jaago screens on Sunday at the ICA, London and March 22 at Watermans, Brentford", "tags": ["Film", "Culture"], "title": "Apala Chowdhury on Aids and Bollywood"},{"date": "2008-02-20T00:51:30Z", "country": "india", "content": "The Walt Disney company is strengthening its foothold in India's entertainment industry by paying $203m (\u00a3104m) to increase its stake in UTV, a film and television producer based in Mumbai. Under the deal, which is one of Hollywood's biggest steps into south Asia, Disney's shareholding in UTV will rise from 13.7% to 32.1%.UTV is best known in Europe and America for co-producing last year's hit movie The Namesake which followed the struggles of Gogol Ganguli, the son of Indian immigrants living in New York.", "tags": ["Film", "Business", "World news", "Culture", "Walt Disney Company"], "title": "Disney foothold in India"},{"date": "2008-03-14T00:19:40Z", "country": "india", "content": "Sex has always been the touchiest of subjects for Indian cinema, but Aids ought to be a Bollywood film producer's dream. It ticks all the right storyline boxes: a cast of untouchables; doomed love; tragic consequences of family-busting proportions. But while it might seem a wonder there aren't more all-singing, all-dancing Indian films on the subject, the notion of Indian films depicting the risks of unsafe sex seems as detached from reality as a typical Bollywood plot, in which people have sex while fully clothed, drenched in monsoon rains beaneath a waterfall or - a recent occurrence in Bollywood movies - in private swimming pools.But four new shorts - Migration, Blood Brothers, Positive and Prarambha, produced under the umbrella of Mira Nair's Aids Jaago (Aids Awake) film project and directed by some of India's leading film-makers - have started looking at sex and its attendant dangers in a different way. In these films, Indians, married and unmarried, gay and straight, poor and posh, have tender, troubled, even hungry sex - but with the warning that when it's unprotected it could lead to HIV and Aids.The films deliver their message with varying degrees of subtlety. Two are more like stylish public service announcements than movies. Nair's own Migration follows a farmer who is forced to find work in Mumbai and brings home a nasty souvenir, while Vishal Bhardwaj's Blood Brothers is about an advertising executive who may have traded in his perfect life for an unprotected one-night stand. Positive, by Farhan Akhtar, plays with the kitsch Indian imagery of family life, using some of those lovely, bright school pictures of rosy-cheeked children and their happy, hard-working parents. But Santosh Sivan's Prarambha (The Beginning) is the most engaging of the bunch; it stars Prabhu Deva (seen as India's Michael Jackson for his dance moves) as a trucker who gives up unsafe sex and becomes the unlikely champion of HIV outcasts. It's knowingly packed with every Bollywood cliche - from the cute, kohl-eyed orphan, through comic baddies, to a terrifically implausible finale, all set to music. In 12 minutes, it manages to be the perfect Bollywood film.However, these aren't the first Indian films to touch on Aids. In 2004, the Indian actress-turned-director Revathi made Phir Milenge (We Will Meet Again), starring Celebrity Big Brother survivor Shilpa Shetty. The film bombed: India wasn't ready to wake up to Aids and was still reeling from foreigners, such as Bill Gates, predicting that there would be 25 million Indians living with HIV by 2010.Thankfully, the figures haven't turned out quite so badly (about 2.5 million-3 million in 2007) and, this time, the influx of money to publicise the risks of HIV (Aids Jaago is funded by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation) and the bigger stars in the Aids Jaago series (Shiney Ahuja, Raima Sen, Sameera Reddy, Irrfan Khan, Siddharth) should do more to raise awareness than Phir Melenge could manage.That said, Aids Jaago won't revolutionise Aids awareness in India (though there's a brilliantly catchy and informative advert on Indian regional TV with the power to do that: search YouTube for Condom Song - Telugu). But in a country that loves film passionately, it's helping to explain the nature of HIV to ever more people, possibly making more of an impact on middle-class cinema-goers who thought they were safe from Aids. And, importantly for Indian film history, these four films really could open the floodgates for the portrayal of the fullness of sex in mainstream Indian cinema. Hooray for Bollywood!\u00b7 Aids Jaago screens on Sunday at the ICA, London and March 22 at Watermans, Brentford", "tags": ["Film", "Culture"], "title": "Apala Chowdhury on Aids and Bollywood"},{"date": "2008-02-20T00:51:30Z", "country": "india", "content": "The Walt Disney company is strengthening its foothold in India's entertainment industry by paying $203m (\u00a3104m) to increase its stake in UTV, a film and television producer based in Mumbai. Under the deal, which is one of Hollywood's biggest steps into south Asia, Disney's shareholding in UTV will rise from 13.7% to 32.1%.UTV is best known in Europe and America for co-producing last year's hit movie The Namesake which followed the struggles of Gogol Ganguli, the son of Indian immigrants living in New York.", "tags": ["Film", "Business", "World news", "Culture", "Walt Disney Company"], "title": "Disney foothold in India"},{"date": "2008-01-25T12:30:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Sans Carla Bruni, President Sarkozy's trip to India should be a \"grip and grin\" affair. Turning up as guest at India's Republic Day - where the country's military parades through the heart of Delhi - will ensure warm hugs and big smiles on Saturday. No doubt, there will be business deals to be struck and arms to be sold.However, underneath the bonhomie, and close to Sarkozy's heart, lies an issue raised by Britain's environment minister, Phil Woolas, last week before Gordon Brown's visit: climate change and the role of big, poor polluters like India. In Woolas's words, the Indian government was not \"putting its shoulder to the wheel\" in the fight against climate change.Sarkozy may be blunter. During his trip to China last year, he issued a not-so-veiled threat to tax imports from high carbon-emitting countries (read China), so that EU companies obliged to meet strict environmental standards could be protected. If the mercurial French leader sticks to his guns, his Delhi visit may be loveless in more ways than one.There's no doubt India is being difficult about climate change. Delhi argues it should be able to grow its economy unhindered by the burden of sins committed by countries that industrialised centuries earlier. Indian ministers point out today that it takes 18 Indians to pollute as much as one American.But there's no ducking the facts. India is home to a billion people and the world's fourth largest polluter. Its economic rise has seen its carbon dioxide emissions almost double since 1990.The current globe's experiment with the environment is fraught with dramatically dangerous outcomes. The North Pole is disappearing. Glaciers are receding. Weather systems are changing, perhaps irrevocably.The re-emergence on the world stage of China and India makes the point that climate change is linked to growth. The west got rich first and then got clean. The question is can the world re-invent ways in which countries become wealthy?In terms of development, China is a rung above India. Beijing has dashed ahead in terms of industrialisation. Manufacturing, the dark satanic commerce that emits atmosphere-altering gases, makes up just a quarter of the Indian economy. In contrast, China is the workshop of the world - and its carbon footprint is three times that of its smaller southern neighbour.But neither country can afford to continue their high-carbon, high-growth rise. China and India are linked in this goal: to raise billions out of poverty without destroying the earth. To achieve this aim both countries need technology and money.The only nations on earth that have the know-how and the cash are the already industrialised countries in Europe, North America and Japan.Will nations such as the United States invest in, create and then affordably spread technologies across the world? Given that no one has built a low-carbon economy, India and China are hedging their bets on this question.Both nations are suspicious of entering a new age where the west has a monopoly on key technologies. They remember how bitter the fight was to get anti-retroviral drugs to fight Aids out of the hands of western multinationals and into the mouths of poor Africans. Deaths in the third world did not move governments then.That explains to some degree the reluctance of both countries to accept binding commitments to cut carbon dioxide emissions.Both Beijing and Delhi are unlikely to be cowed by threats. These two countries, linked by the Himalayas, understand that global inequities cannot be frozen. They are aware that neither rich nor poor can survive calamitous climate change. Both are waiting to see what the west offers up.Trade should be part of the solution, not part of the problem. But it will have fair, not necessarily free, trade that will ensure that wealthy nations' carbon debt to the poorer parts of the world gets paid. In return China and India should accept pollution limits. Arranging this grand bargain is not going to be easy, but then making history never is.", "tags": ["India", "Climate change", "Environment", "US news", "Money"], "title": "Can India grow greener?"},{"date": "2008-03-14T00:19:40Z", "country": "india", "content": "Sex has always been the touchiest of subjects for Indian cinema, but Aids ought to be a Bollywood film producer's dream. It ticks all the right storyline boxes: a cast of untouchables; doomed love; tragic consequences of family-busting proportions. But while it might seem a wonder there aren't more all-singing, all-dancing Indian films on the subject, the notion of Indian films depicting the risks of unsafe sex seems as detached from reality as a typical Bollywood plot, in which people have sex while fully clothed, drenched in monsoon rains beaneath a waterfall or - a recent occurrence in Bollywood movies - in private swimming pools.But four new shorts - Migration, Blood Brothers, Positive and Prarambha, produced under the umbrella of Mira Nair's Aids Jaago (Aids Awake) film project and directed by some of India's leading film-makers - have started looking at sex and its attendant dangers in a different way. In these films, Indians, married and unmarried, gay and straight, poor and posh, have tender, troubled, even hungry sex - but with the warning that when it's unprotected it could lead to HIV and Aids.The films deliver their message with varying degrees of subtlety. Two are more like stylish public service announcements than movies. Nair's own Migration follows a farmer who is forced to find work in Mumbai and brings home a nasty souvenir, while Vishal Bhardwaj's Blood Brothers is about an advertising executive who may have traded in his perfect life for an unprotected one-night stand. Positive, by Farhan Akhtar, plays with the kitsch Indian imagery of family life, using some of those lovely, bright school pictures of rosy-cheeked children and their happy, hard-working parents. But Santosh Sivan's Prarambha (The Beginning) is the most engaging of the bunch; it stars Prabhu Deva (seen as India's Michael Jackson for his dance moves) as a trucker who gives up unsafe sex and becomes the unlikely champion of HIV outcasts. It's knowingly packed with every Bollywood cliche - from the cute, kohl-eyed orphan, through comic baddies, to a terrifically implausible finale, all set to music. In 12 minutes, it manages to be the perfect Bollywood film.However, these aren't the first Indian films to touch on Aids. In 2004, the Indian actress-turned-director Revathi made Phir Milenge (We Will Meet Again), starring Celebrity Big Brother survivor Shilpa Shetty. The film bombed: India wasn't ready to wake up to Aids and was still reeling from foreigners, such as Bill Gates, predicting that there would be 25 million Indians living with HIV by 2010.Thankfully, the figures haven't turned out quite so badly (about 2.5 million-3 million in 2007) and, this time, the influx of money to publicise the risks of HIV (Aids Jaago is funded by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation) and the bigger stars in the Aids Jaago series (Shiney Ahuja, Raima Sen, Sameera Reddy, Irrfan Khan, Siddharth) should do more to raise awareness than Phir Melenge could manage.That said, Aids Jaago won't revolutionise Aids awareness in India (though there's a brilliantly catchy and informative advert on Indian regional TV with the power to do that: search YouTube for Condom Song - Telugu). But in a country that loves film passionately, it's helping to explain the nature of HIV to ever more people, possibly making more of an impact on middle-class cinema-goers who thought they were safe from Aids. And, importantly for Indian film history, these four films really could open the floodgates for the portrayal of the fullness of sex in mainstream Indian cinema. Hooray for Bollywood!\u00b7 Aids Jaago screens on Sunday at the ICA, London and March 22 at Watermans, Brentford", "tags": ["Film", "Culture"], "title": "Apala Chowdhury on Aids and Bollywood"},{"date": "2008-02-20T00:51:30Z", "country": "india", "content": "The Walt Disney company is strengthening its foothold in India's entertainment industry by paying $203m (\u00a3104m) to increase its stake in UTV, a film and television producer based in Mumbai. Under the deal, which is one of Hollywood's biggest steps into south Asia, Disney's shareholding in UTV will rise from 13.7% to 32.1%.UTV is best known in Europe and America for co-producing last year's hit movie The Namesake which followed the struggles of Gogol Ganguli, the son of Indian immigrants living in New York.", "tags": ["Film", "Business", "World news", "Culture", "Walt Disney Company"], "title": "Disney foothold in India"},{"date": "2008-01-25T12:30:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Sans Carla Bruni, President Sarkozy's trip to India should be a \"grip and grin\" affair. Turning up as guest at India's Republic Day - where the country's military parades through the heart of Delhi - will ensure warm hugs and big smiles on Saturday. No doubt, there will be business deals to be struck and arms to be sold.However, underneath the bonhomie, and close to Sarkozy's heart, lies an issue raised by Britain's environment minister, Phil Woolas, last week before Gordon Brown's visit: climate change and the role of big, poor polluters like India. In Woolas's words, the Indian government was not \"putting its shoulder to the wheel\" in the fight against climate change.Sarkozy may be blunter. During his trip to China last year, he issued a not-so-veiled threat to tax imports from high carbon-emitting countries (read China), so that EU companies obliged to meet strict environmental standards could be protected. If the mercurial French leader sticks to his guns, his Delhi visit may be loveless in more ways than one.There's no doubt India is being difficult about climate change. Delhi argues it should be able to grow its economy unhindered by the burden of sins committed by countries that industrialised centuries earlier. Indian ministers point out today that it takes 18 Indians to pollute as much as one American.But there's no ducking the facts. India is home to a billion people and the world's fourth largest polluter. Its economic rise has seen its carbon dioxide emissions almost double since 1990.The current globe's experiment with the environment is fraught with dramatically dangerous outcomes. The North Pole is disappearing. Glaciers are receding. Weather systems are changing, perhaps irrevocably.The re-emergence on the world stage of China and India makes the point that climate change is linked to growth. The west got rich first and then got clean. The question is can the world re-invent ways in which countries become wealthy?In terms of development, China is a rung above India. Beijing has dashed ahead in terms of industrialisation. Manufacturing, the dark satanic commerce that emits atmosphere-altering gases, makes up just a quarter of the Indian economy. In contrast, China is the workshop of the world - and its carbon footprint is three times that of its smaller southern neighbour.But neither country can afford to continue their high-carbon, high-growth rise. China and India are linked in this goal: to raise billions out of poverty without destroying the earth. To achieve this aim both countries need technology and money.The only nations on earth that have the know-how and the cash are the already industrialised countries in Europe, North America and Japan.Will nations such as the United States invest in, create and then affordably spread technologies across the world? Given that no one has built a low-carbon economy, India and China are hedging their bets on this question.Both nations are suspicious of entering a new age where the west has a monopoly on key technologies. They remember how bitter the fight was to get anti-retroviral drugs to fight Aids out of the hands of western multinationals and into the mouths of poor Africans. Deaths in the third world did not move governments then.That explains to some degree the reluctance of both countries to accept binding commitments to cut carbon dioxide emissions.Both Beijing and Delhi are unlikely to be cowed by threats. These two countries, linked by the Himalayas, understand that global inequities cannot be frozen. They are aware that neither rich nor poor can survive calamitous climate change. Both are waiting to see what the west offers up.Trade should be part of the solution, not part of the problem. But it will have fair, not necessarily free, trade that will ensure that wealthy nations' carbon debt to the poorer parts of the world gets paid. In return China and India should accept pollution limits. Arranging this grand bargain is not going to be easy, but then making history never is.", "tags": ["India", "Climate change", "Environment", "US news", "Money"], "title": "Can India grow greener?"},{"date": "2008-01-21T10:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Yesterday saw the official start of Gordon Brown's visit to India, and the fourth top-level summit between our two countries. This is Brown's first visit as prime minister, and comes hot on the heels of his stay in China last week. The business delegation which has accompanied him hopes to sign deals worth billions of pounds during the stay, and Brown himself has highlighted the importance to the British economy of cementing links with the two Asian superpowers.With an annual growth rate of 9% over the past couple of years, India is close to rivalling China's economic boom. Yet while China's achievements have been credited with lifting 400 million people out of poverty, the benefits of India's growth have not spread beyond the top 10% of its own massive population. According to Merrill Lynch's world wealth report, India now boasts an incredible 93,000 millionaires, as well as the world's second-fastest growth in \"high net worth individuals\". Yet in a parallel universe within the same country, 350 million people (more than in the whole of Africa) still live in desperate poverty on less than a dollar a day, while a total of 900 million scrape by on under two dollars a day.This yawning inequality is no secret. The British government's own Developments magazine devoted its most recent issue to India and pointed out the huge challenges faced by the country in the light of the growing gap between rich and poor. Among other grim statistics, the government noted that India's levels of child malnutrition are almost double those in sub-Saharan Africa, with a million women and children dying each year through lack of access to healthcare. To add insult to injury, India actually dropped (pdf) from 126 to 128 in the UN's latest human development table, despite all its economic success.All the more incredible then, that Gordon Brown and his fellow EU leaders are denying India the flexibility due to a developing country in their current bilateral trade talks. The EU's stated aim is to use its planned free trade agreement to open up new Indian markets to European exports, especially in those areas which have traditionally been closed to foreign companies. India, which aims to win opportunities for its own exports, has asked on development grounds that it be allowed some flexibility in opening up its domestic markets in order to protect the most vulnerable sectors of its economy. Despite the fact that this \"asymmetric liberalisation\" is standard practice in many negotiations between developed and developing nations, the EU has refused to grant India any such leeway.The consequences of opening up India's economy to unequal competition from the EU are as predictable as they are negative. While the hi-tech, high-value end of India's services and manufacturing sectors are able to compete on the international stage, the vast majority of the country's massive workforce is employed in agriculture or small-scale industries which are unable to survive in the face of external competition. The threat to the hundreds of millions who work in these sectors is made more pressing in the absence of any social security safety nets; over 30,000 Indian farmers have been driven to suicide over the past 10 years as a result of agricultural sector reform. The threat to women is particularly acute, given that they have long occupied the most precarious positions in the Indian labour market and stand to lose out most in the event of any further liberalisation.India is not an isolated case in this respect. The EU has come under intense fire for driving forward its economic partnership agreements with African, Caribbean and Pacific nations, despite worldwide protest at the damage these agreements will cause to some of the world's poorest countries. Yet the UK and its fellow EU member states have pressed on regardless, and are now lining up a host of other developing countries for the same treatment.Ultimately, one could argue, it is up to the leaders of developing nations to stick up for their own peoples. While this is harder for poor countries which have been threatened with the loss of aid or trading preferences if they do not sign up to the EU's demands, emerging superpowers such as India are strong enough to stand up for themselves. In their case, as with ours, the government makes its own choice whether to put commercial interests before the needs of the poor and marginalised, and takes its chance at the ballot box next time around.Yet given the huge, long-term impact of trade deals, our own government also has a responsibility not to deny developing countries the flexibility to defend their most vulnerable populations and grow their economies according to their own development needs. Gordon Brown is reportedly seeking to launch his own Make Poverty History campaign later this year, and is looking round for charities to support him. If his government's trade policies towards developing countries remain as they are at present, he will deserve no support whatsoever.", "tags": ["India", "China", "Business", "Gordon Brown", "Economics", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Which India, Mr Brown?"},{"date": "2008-03-14T00:19:40Z", "country": "india", "content": "Sex has always been the touchiest of subjects for Indian cinema, but Aids ought to be a Bollywood film producer's dream. It ticks all the right storyline boxes: a cast of untouchables; doomed love; tragic consequences of family-busting proportions. But while it might seem a wonder there aren't more all-singing, all-dancing Indian films on the subject, the notion of Indian films depicting the risks of unsafe sex seems as detached from reality as a typical Bollywood plot, in which people have sex while fully clothed, drenched in monsoon rains beaneath a waterfall or - a recent occurrence in Bollywood movies - in private swimming pools.But four new shorts - Migration, Blood Brothers, Positive and Prarambha, produced under the umbrella of Mira Nair's Aids Jaago (Aids Awake) film project and directed by some of India's leading film-makers - have started looking at sex and its attendant dangers in a different way. In these films, Indians, married and unmarried, gay and straight, poor and posh, have tender, troubled, even hungry sex - but with the warning that when it's unprotected it could lead to HIV and Aids.The films deliver their message with varying degrees of subtlety. Two are more like stylish public service announcements than movies. Nair's own Migration follows a farmer who is forced to find work in Mumbai and brings home a nasty souvenir, while Vishal Bhardwaj's Blood Brothers is about an advertising executive who may have traded in his perfect life for an unprotected one-night stand. Positive, by Farhan Akhtar, plays with the kitsch Indian imagery of family life, using some of those lovely, bright school pictures of rosy-cheeked children and their happy, hard-working parents. But Santosh Sivan's Prarambha (The Beginning) is the most engaging of the bunch; it stars Prabhu Deva (seen as India's Michael Jackson for his dance moves) as a trucker who gives up unsafe sex and becomes the unlikely champion of HIV outcasts. It's knowingly packed with every Bollywood cliche - from the cute, kohl-eyed orphan, through comic baddies, to a terrifically implausible finale, all set to music. In 12 minutes, it manages to be the perfect Bollywood film.However, these aren't the first Indian films to touch on Aids. In 2004, the Indian actress-turned-director Revathi made Phir Milenge (We Will Meet Again), starring Celebrity Big Brother survivor Shilpa Shetty. The film bombed: India wasn't ready to wake up to Aids and was still reeling from foreigners, such as Bill Gates, predicting that there would be 25 million Indians living with HIV by 2010.Thankfully, the figures haven't turned out quite so badly (about 2.5 million-3 million in 2007) and, this time, the influx of money to publicise the risks of HIV (Aids Jaago is funded by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation) and the bigger stars in the Aids Jaago series (Shiney Ahuja, Raima Sen, Sameera Reddy, Irrfan Khan, Siddharth) should do more to raise awareness than Phir Melenge could manage.That said, Aids Jaago won't revolutionise Aids awareness in India (though there's a brilliantly catchy and informative advert on Indian regional TV with the power to do that: search YouTube for Condom Song - Telugu). But in a country that loves film passionately, it's helping to explain the nature of HIV to ever more people, possibly making more of an impact on middle-class cinema-goers who thought they were safe from Aids. And, importantly for Indian film history, these four films really could open the floodgates for the portrayal of the fullness of sex in mainstream Indian cinema. Hooray for Bollywood!\u00b7 Aids Jaago screens on Sunday at the ICA, London and March 22 at Watermans, Brentford", "tags": ["Film", "Culture"], "title": "Apala Chowdhury on Aids and Bollywood"},{"date": "2008-02-20T00:51:30Z", "country": "india", "content": "The Walt Disney company is strengthening its foothold in India's entertainment industry by paying $203m (\u00a3104m) to increase its stake in UTV, a film and television producer based in Mumbai. Under the deal, which is one of Hollywood's biggest steps into south Asia, Disney's shareholding in UTV will rise from 13.7% to 32.1%.UTV is best known in Europe and America for co-producing last year's hit movie The Namesake which followed the struggles of Gogol Ganguli, the son of Indian immigrants living in New York.", "tags": ["Film", "Business", "World news", "Culture", "Walt Disney Company"], "title": "Disney foothold in India"},{"date": "2008-01-25T12:30:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Sans Carla Bruni, President Sarkozy's trip to India should be a \"grip and grin\" affair. Turning up as guest at India's Republic Day - where the country's military parades through the heart of Delhi - will ensure warm hugs and big smiles on Saturday. No doubt, there will be business deals to be struck and arms to be sold.However, underneath the bonhomie, and close to Sarkozy's heart, lies an issue raised by Britain's environment minister, Phil Woolas, last week before Gordon Brown's visit: climate change and the role of big, poor polluters like India. In Woolas's words, the Indian government was not \"putting its shoulder to the wheel\" in the fight against climate change.Sarkozy may be blunter. During his trip to China last year, he issued a not-so-veiled threat to tax imports from high carbon-emitting countries (read China), so that EU companies obliged to meet strict environmental standards could be protected. If the mercurial French leader sticks to his guns, his Delhi visit may be loveless in more ways than one.There's no doubt India is being difficult about climate change. Delhi argues it should be able to grow its economy unhindered by the burden of sins committed by countries that industrialised centuries earlier. Indian ministers point out today that it takes 18 Indians to pollute as much as one American.But there's no ducking the facts. India is home to a billion people and the world's fourth largest polluter. Its economic rise has seen its carbon dioxide emissions almost double since 1990.The current globe's experiment with the environment is fraught with dramatically dangerous outcomes. The North Pole is disappearing. Glaciers are receding. Weather systems are changing, perhaps irrevocably.The re-emergence on the world stage of China and India makes the point that climate change is linked to growth. The west got rich first and then got clean. The question is can the world re-invent ways in which countries become wealthy?In terms of development, China is a rung above India. Beijing has dashed ahead in terms of industrialisation. Manufacturing, the dark satanic commerce that emits atmosphere-altering gases, makes up just a quarter of the Indian economy. In contrast, China is the workshop of the world - and its carbon footprint is three times that of its smaller southern neighbour.But neither country can afford to continue their high-carbon, high-growth rise. China and India are linked in this goal: to raise billions out of poverty without destroying the earth. To achieve this aim both countries need technology and money.The only nations on earth that have the know-how and the cash are the already industrialised countries in Europe, North America and Japan.Will nations such as the United States invest in, create and then affordably spread technologies across the world? Given that no one has built a low-carbon economy, India and China are hedging their bets on this question.Both nations are suspicious of entering a new age where the west has a monopoly on key technologies. They remember how bitter the fight was to get anti-retroviral drugs to fight Aids out of the hands of western multinationals and into the mouths of poor Africans. Deaths in the third world did not move governments then.That explains to some degree the reluctance of both countries to accept binding commitments to cut carbon dioxide emissions.Both Beijing and Delhi are unlikely to be cowed by threats. These two countries, linked by the Himalayas, understand that global inequities cannot be frozen. They are aware that neither rich nor poor can survive calamitous climate change. Both are waiting to see what the west offers up.Trade should be part of the solution, not part of the problem. But it will have fair, not necessarily free, trade that will ensure that wealthy nations' carbon debt to the poorer parts of the world gets paid. In return China and India should accept pollution limits. Arranging this grand bargain is not going to be easy, but then making history never is.", "tags": ["India", "Climate change", "Environment", "US news", "Money"], "title": "Can India grow greener?"},{"date": "2008-01-21T10:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Yesterday saw the official start of Gordon Brown's visit to India, and the fourth top-level summit between our two countries. This is Brown's first visit as prime minister, and comes hot on the heels of his stay in China last week. The business delegation which has accompanied him hopes to sign deals worth billions of pounds during the stay, and Brown himself has highlighted the importance to the British economy of cementing links with the two Asian superpowers.With an annual growth rate of 9% over the past couple of years, India is close to rivalling China's economic boom. Yet while China's achievements have been credited with lifting 400 million people out of poverty, the benefits of India's growth have not spread beyond the top 10% of its own massive population. According to Merrill Lynch's world wealth report, India now boasts an incredible 93,000 millionaires, as well as the world's second-fastest growth in \"high net worth individuals\". Yet in a parallel universe within the same country, 350 million people (more than in the whole of Africa) still live in desperate poverty on less than a dollar a day, while a total of 900 million scrape by on under two dollars a day.This yawning inequality is no secret. The British government's own Developments magazine devoted its most recent issue to India and pointed out the huge challenges faced by the country in the light of the growing gap between rich and poor. Among other grim statistics, the government noted that India's levels of child malnutrition are almost double those in sub-Saharan Africa, with a million women and children dying each year through lack of access to healthcare. To add insult to injury, India actually dropped (pdf) from 126 to 128 in the UN's latest human development table, despite all its economic success.All the more incredible then, that Gordon Brown and his fellow EU leaders are denying India the flexibility due to a developing country in their current bilateral trade talks. The EU's stated aim is to use its planned free trade agreement to open up new Indian markets to European exports, especially in those areas which have traditionally been closed to foreign companies. India, which aims to win opportunities for its own exports, has asked on development grounds that it be allowed some flexibility in opening up its domestic markets in order to protect the most vulnerable sectors of its economy. Despite the fact that this \"asymmetric liberalisation\" is standard practice in many negotiations between developed and developing nations, the EU has refused to grant India any such leeway.The consequences of opening up India's economy to unequal competition from the EU are as predictable as they are negative. While the hi-tech, high-value end of India's services and manufacturing sectors are able to compete on the international stage, the vast majority of the country's massive workforce is employed in agriculture or small-scale industries which are unable to survive in the face of external competition. The threat to the hundreds of millions who work in these sectors is made more pressing in the absence of any social security safety nets; over 30,000 Indian farmers have been driven to suicide over the past 10 years as a result of agricultural sector reform. The threat to women is particularly acute, given that they have long occupied the most precarious positions in the Indian labour market and stand to lose out most in the event of any further liberalisation.India is not an isolated case in this respect. The EU has come under intense fire for driving forward its economic partnership agreements with African, Caribbean and Pacific nations, despite worldwide protest at the damage these agreements will cause to some of the world's poorest countries. Yet the UK and its fellow EU member states have pressed on regardless, and are now lining up a host of other developing countries for the same treatment.Ultimately, one could argue, it is up to the leaders of developing nations to stick up for their own peoples. While this is harder for poor countries which have been threatened with the loss of aid or trading preferences if they do not sign up to the EU's demands, emerging superpowers such as India are strong enough to stand up for themselves. In their case, as with ours, the government makes its own choice whether to put commercial interests before the needs of the poor and marginalised, and takes its chance at the ballot box next time around.Yet given the huge, long-term impact of trade deals, our own government also has a responsibility not to deny developing countries the flexibility to defend their most vulnerable populations and grow their economies according to their own development needs. Gordon Brown is reportedly seeking to launch his own Make Poverty History campaign later this year, and is looking round for charities to support him. If his government's trade policies towards developing countries remain as they are at present, he will deserve no support whatsoever.", "tags": ["India", "China", "Business", "Gordon Brown", "Economics", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Which India, Mr Brown?"},{"date": "2008-01-17T09:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "I live in Bangalore, the capital of the southern state of Karnataka, ranked recently as the fourth most corrupt state in India by Transparency International. My husband, MN Vijayakumar, has been an officer in the Karnataka cadre of the Indian Administrative Service for 26 years. He has been trying to fight corruption in the government throughout his whole career, with some success. However, for the past two and a half years his reports have been completely ignored, while corruption has increased.  My husband has been transferred several times \u2013 once even to a defunct company \u2013 with no reasons given. Last year he tried to introduce a revolutionary system that would have allowed public inspection of government files under the Right to Information Act (an act similar to the British Freedom of Information Act, which gives the public the right to seek information from public authorities). Two days before the system was launched, he was transferred again.  He filed a complaint against the chief secretary \u2013 the top civil servant in the government \u2013 before the Lok Ayukta (an anti-corruption watchdog body), and since then we have received several threats. One night someone came to our house and told us that our son (who studies at university) was sick, and that we needed to go with him immediately. He had no way of knowing that our son was actually asleep in our house. Recently, a stranger came up to me and told me to stop my crusade, and threatened to hurt my family. We have filed several police complaints, but they have been ignored.  Last year, in May, I started writing a blog. I didn't want my husband to end up like Shanmugam Manjunath or Satyendranath Dubey (the two men who were found murdered after exposing government corruption). Most whistleblowers don't tell anyone what they are doing until it is too late. I thought that the public should know how my husband was being treated. Corruption has always been a problem, but bureaucrats are now hand-in-glove with politicians and are promoting it, not preventing it. Even if they don't actually take bribes themselves, they turn a blind eye to those who do.  Currently there is no protection for people who inform on the government. After the murder of Manjunath in 2005, the central government asked the state governments to set up committees to protect whistleblowers, but the Karnataka government has yet to set up a committee. My husband and I have filed about 35 applications under the Right to Information Act (RTI), asking for information on everything from the government's transfer policy to their measures to deal with corruption and protect informers. It is a slow process, but we have started to receive some information. Everything that I do is made public on my blog, and anyone who wants to make a difference is welcome to help. I also guide people who want to file applications under the RTI.  We are trying to build public pressure to get the state governor to take action. We have not yet had support from the government, but there has been a lot from the public: we have well-wishers from all over the world, some as far away as the US and the UK. There are plenty of honest people in government who support us secretly, but they are afraid to speak out; some tell us that they will help us when they retire. What my husband and I are are trying to do is identify officers in the government who can help people to get things done without taking bribes. In Belgaum, the district in Karnataka where we are currently posted, my husband set up an anti-corruption movement called Pragati Belgaum. He plans to compile a list of honest government officers in the area. There are honest people out there, but nobody knows who they are. Several officers have now pledged in writing that they will no longer accept bribes. On Anti-Corruption Day we presented a memorandum to the state governor demanding measures to check corruption, such as including vigilance officers in every department, and giving more powers to the Lok Ayukta. There is already a public services bill, which provides some protection for whistleblowers, but it has still not been made a law by parliament. We are lobbying to turn it into a law.  My husband and I consulted our college-going children before we began our movement, because we knew we would be threatened and face financial difficulties. One of the chief secretaries asked us: \"Do you know what you are doing? I don't have to tell you that the people you are fighting against are so powerful that they will decimate you.\" But we went into this with our eyes open, aware of the risks.  My long-term goal is to change people's mindset. We hope to form a network of committed individuals who will combat the network of corruption. The RTI is the main tool we have in our fight: information is power. We can't expect overnight changes, but I believe that if we are not part of the solution, we are part of the problem.  So many Indian people have come to accept corruption as a way of life; they are ready to pay a bribe to get their work done \u2013 or done faster. We plan to start anti-corruption education programmes in schools and colleges to educate the young. The new generation needs to say no to corruption.", "tags": ["India", "Politics"], "title": "Fighting corruption in India"},{"date": "2008-06-08T23:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "When the Times of India broke the story that it had bought Virgin Radio for \u00a353m last weekend, it marked the first foreign takeover by an Indian media company. The paper's headline read: \"Voice of India will now be heard all over London.\"The world's largest-circulation newspaper was founded to support the Raj's interest in western India 170 years ago, and the old lady of Boribunder has revelled in the role of reverse colonialist.Bennett Coleman, India's biggest media company and proprietors of the Times of India, will now own one of Britain's three commercial radio licences and serve 2.7 million listeners and another 600,000 unique users through its website. The Virgin name will disappear, because Virgin Radio in India is a partner with a rival of Times of India's radio stations.The rise and fall of Virgin Radio, bought in 2000 for \u00a3225m by Scottish Media Group and sold for less than a quarter of that sum, could be seen as a sign of things to come. Thanks to the internet, the traditional western media business model - selling news and entertainment to audiences, and then selling audiences to advertisers - is falling apart, just as the current economic slowdown is making things worse. Cherry-pick assetsAll this comes at a time when media companies in the developing world, where internet penetration is low, are seeing bottom lines bulge as their audiences grow.India is now the second largest newspaper market in the world with 99m copies sold daily - and newspaper sales grew by 11% last year. Not only \"dead tree\" media benefit from the rising tide of literacy and wealth. According to PricewaterhouseCoopers, TV and radio advertising in the country will grow by more than 20% for the next five years.Sitting on top of this mountain of cash in India is Bennett Coleman, a family-owned company where the proprietors like profiles to be kept low and profits to be kept high. The group sells more than 6m newspapers a day - a figure that includes local language editions and the country's biggest business paper, the salmon-pink Economic Times. It has two television channels - including a rolling news network backed by \u00a310m from Reuters. Times Group also owns 32 radio stations in India, a string of profitable websites, a PR company and an outdoor advertising company, which Goldman Sachs and Lehman brothers together paid $25m each for a 8% stake.Indicating Bennett Coleman's global ambitions, its managing director, 41-year-old Vineet Jain, said last week it would \"aggressively [grow] in India and cherry-pick assets and brands around the world\".Ravi Dhariwal, Bennett Coleman's chief executive, says he is an admirer of \"the Financial Times and the Economist\". \"American newspapers have not innovated,\" he adds. \"That is why they are losing readers. They just get heavier and lose relevance with younger people. The quality market in England is still healthy but newspapers have to be good value, a low price. You know the FT is a couple of bucks.\" When asked if Times Group might consider buying the Financial Times, he says he will say \"nothing more\".Bennett Coleman's dominance can be attributed to one man: 53-year-old Samir, the vice chairman and Vineet's elder brother. Low-key and unassuming, Samir rarely gives interviews to the mainstream media. The Jain family are Marwaris, a community known for their business sense and spirituality. Samir and Vineet's mother Induja chairs the group. When Forbes magazine listed the family matriarch on its 2006 list of the wealthy as the 15th richest person in India, she sued the magazine on grounds of privacy. Samir Jain is a vegetarian who doesn't drink or smoke, and a fitness fanatic who has no interest in politics or Bollywood, often slipping out of newspaper parties unnoticed. Plucked from running the family's ailing jute division, he considers news a business. In the early 90s, Samir Jain began to market the Times aggressively, first by cutting the cover price and then once circulation ballooned by sharply raising advertising rates. He shut down venerable but unprofitable magazines, and introduced new supplements filled with celebrity gossip. Samir had little time for journalistic egos. The editor of the newspaper, once a grand figure, is now virtually anonymous.While critics accused the Jains of \"dumbing down\" content, readers flocked to the new paper. The Times' circulation has shot past 2.5m, up from half a million a couple of decades ago. In the latest year for which figures are available, ending March 2007, Bennett Coleman's profit before tax was 6.45bn rupees (\u00a380m) on revenues of 28.5bn rupees.Product placement\"Times Group spent a lot of time building brands that capture the attention of the young reader. That's important when half the population is under 25,\" says Vanita Kohli-Khandekar, author of The Indian Media Business.In its glossy supplements the paper's editorial space is sold to advertisers, leaving it unclear to an unfamiliar reader whether the content is paid-for advertorial or not. Bennett Coleman says there are no ethical issues as it is not \"news editorial space\" that is being filled. \"It is not marked as an advert but it is clearly an advertising supplement only for lifestyle coverage,\" says chief executive Dhariwal.In 2004, the paper took a step further when it began accepting payments for advertisements in the form of shares in the advertiser's firm. It now has 120 such \"private treaties\", which lock out rivals from seeking ad revenue.The firm's executives insist that neither its own shareholdings nor its advertisers influence its coverage. But articles in Times publications rarely reveal the paper's shareholding interests. This practice, say critics, is a conflict of interest.\"With the price wars, papers are cheap. The Times of India, for example, costs just 2.50 rupees. So you are heavily dependent upon advertisers,\" says Pradyuman Maheshwari, a journalist who started a media blog but shut it down after receiving legal notices from Bennett Coleman.However, Times executives dismiss such talk as motivated by \"envy\". Dariwal says that \"editorial works hand in hand with the advertising department to understand readers. We have stakes in companies because we have a fundamental belief in India's success. The idea we would not write something because we owned a slice of a company is nonsense. As shareholders we would want to know if something is wrong and would encourage reporters to write about it.\"", "tags": ["Newspapers & magazines", "Commercial radio", "Radio industry", "Media", "India", "Mergers and acquisitions", "Business", "Radio", "Television & radio"], "title": "Passages from India"},{"date": "2008-06-08T23:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "When the Times of India broke the story that it had bought Virgin Radio for \u00a353m last weekend, it marked the first foreign takeover by an Indian media company. The paper's headline read: \"Voice of India will now be heard all over London.\"The world's largest-circulation newspaper was founded to support the Raj's interest in western India 170 years ago, and the old lady of Boribunder has revelled in the role of reverse colonialist.Bennett Coleman, India's biggest media company and proprietors of the Times of India, will now own one of Britain's three commercial radio licences and serve 2.7 million listeners and another 600,000 unique users through its website. The Virgin name will disappear, because Virgin Radio in India is a partner with a rival of Times of India's radio stations.The rise and fall of Virgin Radio, bought in 2000 for \u00a3225m by Scottish Media Group and sold for less than a quarter of that sum, could be seen as a sign of things to come. Thanks to the internet, the traditional western media business model - selling news and entertainment to audiences, and then selling audiences to advertisers - is falling apart, just as the current economic slowdown is making things worse. Cherry-pick assetsAll this comes at a time when media companies in the developing world, where internet penetration is low, are seeing bottom lines bulge as their audiences grow.India is now the second largest newspaper market in the world with 99m copies sold daily - and newspaper sales grew by 11% last year. Not only \"dead tree\" media benefit from the rising tide of literacy and wealth. According to PricewaterhouseCoopers, TV and radio advertising in the country will grow by more than 20% for the next five years.Sitting on top of this mountain of cash in India is Bennett Coleman, a family-owned company where the proprietors like profiles to be kept low and profits to be kept high. The group sells more than 6m newspapers a day - a figure that includes local language editions and the country's biggest business paper, the salmon-pink Economic Times. It has two television channels - including a rolling news network backed by \u00a310m from Reuters. Times Group also owns 32 radio stations in India, a string of profitable websites, a PR company and an outdoor advertising company, which Goldman Sachs and Lehman brothers together paid $25m each for a 8% stake.Indicating Bennett Coleman's global ambitions, its managing director, 41-year-old Vineet Jain, said last week it would \"aggressively [grow] in India and cherry-pick assets and brands around the world\".Ravi Dhariwal, Bennett Coleman's chief executive, says he is an admirer of \"the Financial Times and the Economist\". \"American newspapers have not innovated,\" he adds. \"That is why they are losing readers. They just get heavier and lose relevance with younger people. The quality market in England is still healthy but newspapers have to be good value, a low price. You know the FT is a couple of bucks.\" When asked if Times Group might consider buying the Financial Times, he says he will say \"nothing more\".Bennett Coleman's dominance can be attributed to one man: 53-year-old Samir, the vice chairman and Vineet's elder brother. Low-key and unassuming, Samir rarely gives interviews to the mainstream media. The Jain family are Marwaris, a community known for their business sense and spirituality. Samir and Vineet's mother Induja chairs the group. When Forbes magazine listed the family matriarch on its 2006 list of the wealthy as the 15th richest person in India, she sued the magazine on grounds of privacy. Samir Jain is a vegetarian who doesn't drink or smoke, and a fitness fanatic who has no interest in politics or Bollywood, often slipping out of newspaper parties unnoticed. Plucked from running the family's ailing jute division, he considers news a business. In the early 90s, Samir Jain began to market the Times aggressively, first by cutting the cover price and then once circulation ballooned by sharply raising advertising rates. He shut down venerable but unprofitable magazines, and introduced new supplements filled with celebrity gossip. Samir had little time for journalistic egos. The editor of the newspaper, once a grand figure, is now virtually anonymous.While critics accused the Jains of \"dumbing down\" content, readers flocked to the new paper. The Times' circulation has shot past 2.5m, up from half a million a couple of decades ago. In the latest year for which figures are available, ending March 2007, Bennett Coleman's profit before tax was 6.45bn rupees (\u00a380m) on revenues of 28.5bn rupees.Product placement\"Times Group spent a lot of time building brands that capture the attention of the young reader. That's important when half the population is under 25,\" says Vanita Kohli-Khandekar, author of The Indian Media Business.In its glossy supplements the paper's editorial space is sold to advertisers, leaving it unclear to an unfamiliar reader whether the content is paid-for advertorial or not. Bennett Coleman says there are no ethical issues as it is not \"news editorial space\" that is being filled. \"It is not marked as an advert but it is clearly an advertising supplement only for lifestyle coverage,\" says chief executive Dhariwal.In 2004, the paper took a step further when it began accepting payments for advertisements in the form of shares in the advertiser's firm. It now has 120 such \"private treaties\", which lock out rivals from seeking ad revenue.The firm's executives insist that neither its own shareholdings nor its advertisers influence its coverage. But articles in Times publications rarely reveal the paper's shareholding interests. This practice, say critics, is a conflict of interest.\"With the price wars, papers are cheap. The Times of India, for example, costs just 2.50 rupees. So you are heavily dependent upon advertisers,\" says Pradyuman Maheshwari, a journalist who started a media blog but shut it down after receiving legal notices from Bennett Coleman.However, Times executives dismiss such talk as motivated by \"envy\". Dariwal says that \"editorial works hand in hand with the advertising department to understand readers. We have stakes in companies because we have a fundamental belief in India's success. The idea we would not write something because we owned a slice of a company is nonsense. As shareholders we would want to know if something is wrong and would encourage reporters to write about it.\"", "tags": ["Newspapers & magazines", "Commercial radio", "Radio industry", "Media", "India", "Mergers and acquisitions", "Business", "Radio", "Television & radio"], "title": "Passages from India"},{"date": "2008-05-09T10:40:52Z", "country": "india", "content": "Most big search companies are experimenting with the idea of comprehensive search pages that show lots of different results -- text, images, video etc -- instead of just text. Google calls it Universal Search. Yahoo's is Glue, and a beta version has just been launched in India.Glue doesn't just get results from different parts of the search engine (text, images etc), it can also pull in hits from Yahoo Groups, Yahoo Answers and Yahoo News, plus outside sources such as Flickr, Last FM, Google Blog Search and How Stuff Works.There are, of course, some limitations. The obvious one is that it takes much longer to load a Glue page. Another is that it only works for limited number of queries in certain areas, typically sports, travel, entertainment, and health. The Beatles example above, from Search Engine Land, is dead easy. If your query is more along the lines of windows database extract IPTC metadata then it's not going to work too well.At the moment, Google's \"one box\" idea (surfacing some related materials at the top of the search, eg news) seems to work best, and is also used, to a limited extent, by Microsoft's Live Search.Why India? According to the report in Business Standard:", "tags": ["Search engines", "Internet", "Technology"], "title": "Yahoo tries Glue in India"},{"date": "2008-09-29T05:56:41Z", "country": "india", "content": "Cond\u00e9 Nast is today unveiling the 15th global edition of its men's magazine GQ by launching in India.The October issue opens GQ's Indian account by featuring the country's leading lights of Bollywood, cricket and fashion - respectively Saif Ali Khan, Yuvraj Singh and Arjun Rampal. The monthly magazine will distribute 35,000 copies of its first issue in 40 Indian towns and cities priced at R100 (\u00a31.17).The launch issue also features an exclusive interview with steel tycoon Aditya Mittal.Che Kurrien will edit GQ India and an accompanying Indian-focused website, gqmagazine.in, will launch simultaneously today. Cond\u00e9 Nast's plans to launch an Indian edition of the upmarket men's magazine were made public in April, as the publisher announced its aim to follow the success of Vogue's launch in India.Cond\u00e9 Nast launched Vogue India in September 2007 after gaining permission from the Indian government to own 100% of its Indian subsidiary.A change of regulation in 2005 allowed non-news and current affairs publications to be wholly foreign-owned. Cond\u00e9 Nast India was one of the first companies established under the new rules.Other popular European magazines were previously launched under licence.Like Vogue India, Cond\u00e9 Nast will collaborate with a leading distribution company, the Living Media Group, to make the GQ available throughout India, where it will be on sale at 5,500 different outlets.GQ was first launched in America in 1957 as Gentleman's Quarterly, a fashion spin-off from Esquire.Cond\u00e9 Nast took over the magazine in 1983 and launched it in the UK in September 1988.\u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.\u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".", "tags": ["Consumer magazines", "Conde Nast", "Newspapers & magazines", "Media", "India", "World news", "Magazines"], "title": "GQ launches in India"},{"date": "2008-09-29T05:56:41Z", "country": "india", "content": "Cond\u00e9 Nast is today unveiling the 15th global edition of its men's magazine GQ by launching in India.The October issue opens GQ's Indian account by featuring the country's leading lights of Bollywood, cricket and fashion - respectively Saif Ali Khan, Yuvraj Singh and Arjun Rampal. The monthly magazine will distribute 35,000 copies of its first issue in 40 Indian towns and cities priced at R100 (\u00a31.17).The launch issue also features an exclusive interview with steel tycoon Aditya Mittal.Che Kurrien will edit GQ India and an accompanying Indian-focused website, gqmagazine.in, will launch simultaneously today. Cond\u00e9 Nast's plans to launch an Indian edition of the upmarket men's magazine were made public in April, as the publisher announced its aim to follow the success of Vogue's launch in India.Cond\u00e9 Nast launched Vogue India in September 2007 after gaining permission from the Indian government to own 100% of its Indian subsidiary.A change of regulation in 2005 allowed non-news and current affairs publications to be wholly foreign-owned. Cond\u00e9 Nast India was one of the first companies established under the new rules.Other popular European magazines were previously launched under licence.Like Vogue India, Cond\u00e9 Nast will collaborate with a leading distribution company, the Living Media Group, to make the GQ available throughout India, where it will be on sale at 5,500 different outlets.GQ was first launched in America in 1957 as Gentleman's Quarterly, a fashion spin-off from Esquire.Cond\u00e9 Nast took over the magazine in 1983 and launched it in the UK in September 1988.\u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.\u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".", "tags": ["Consumer magazines", "Conde Nast", "Newspapers & magazines", "Media", "India", "World news", "Magazines"], "title": "GQ launches in India"},{"date": "2008-09-06T23:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The last time I stayed in a guesthouse in the UK, it was remarkable only for the fact that it was painted pink. The first guesthouse I visited in India was in the pink-painted city of Jaipur. Fortunately, the similarities ended there.Whereas Dreary-on-Sea featured a slightly camp host with all-too unique design skills and accommodation that exuded defeat, the Jaipur flagship of a new wave of Indian B&Bs offered a glimpse of a world no ordinary hotel chain could hope to provide.We are sitting on wicker chairs in a small, open-sided structure at the edge of an immaculate lawn as dusk falls. What appears to be a one-legged bird is hopping clumsily across the grass, pecking industriously at the grass. Away to the east, the elephants that plough up and down the shore of the lake that surrounds the Jai Mahal palace are nearing the end of their working day. As the light fails, the city - originally painted yellow, but now repainted a deep, almost orange shade of pink - glows in the twilight.The lawn is bounded on two sides by the balconied wings of an imposing, beautifully decorated house, the Madhu Pushp Bhawan. Overhead, a fan is throwing mosquitoes off course.We are in the state of Rajasthan, which the Rough Guide warns is notoriously unwelcoming to drinkers, yet the remains of a bottle of chilled Kingfisher beer stands on the table. Half of it is in my glass, the rest in that of Madhavendra Singh Chauhan, former chief conservator of wildlife in Rajasthan's forestry department. Mr Chauhan is a man of means, a Rajput; a member of the warrior class, he explains. The house has always been the family home - and it still is, even though Mr Chauhan's son, Jaideep, who recently left the employ of the luxury Oberoi hotel chain, has put his experience to work by opening it up as a guesthouse - with his father's blessing. The house is one of a growing chain run by the powerful Mahindra family, which also makes cars and owns a bank. It offers home stays which combine, according to the company, 'the comfort and distinction of a boutique hotel with the personal hospitality, informality and local knowledge enjoyed when staying with family friends'.The big selling point is the insight into Indian family life. Some people just visit the Chauhans for the afternoon, to take tea or dinner with the family, crowding into the kitchen to watch Mr Chauhan's wife, Bushbendra, and her daughter-in-law, Madhu, work their magic with spices and to pepper them with questions; others stay the night in one of the seven guest bedrooms.Inside, the wings head off from a vast main room. An open door reveals Jaideep's eight-year-old son sprawled on a bed watching television, while the head of a rather startled tiger pokes out from the wall above the family prayer room. 'Shot by my grandfather sometime before 1920,' Chauhan senior explains. The rooms are furnished exquisitely, finely carved furniture vying with delicate pieces of silver.Dinner is served upstairs. Jaideep sits across from me while Madhu hovers. She prefers to eat a little later, but sits anyway and takes a bowl of dal. Parathas arrive, warm and flaky. I watch carefully to see what order Jaideep takes the food in (a day earlier, I disgraced myself in a Delhi restaurant by dipping my bread into a bowl of tapioca which was meant to be the dessert element of a thali). After dinner, I retire to a room that is not extravagantly furnished but is on the right side of comfortable. I cannot find a top sheet, but the room is warm and I can't be bothered to disturb anyone to find me one. I lie down and start to fall asleep, only to be woken by an icy blast from the air-conditioning unit. I reset it, switch off the light - and 20 minutes later I'm blasted again. I give up, switch it off and opt for the ceiling fan, which does an admirable and remarkably silent job. It is my only real grumble. Oddly, in a hotel this would have driven me crazy. I would have been on the phone, demanding to move rooms. But here it would have seemed bad manners, like staying at a friend's house and asking to swap bedrooms because you didn't like the colour of the wallpaper. Mahindra has been signing up guesthouses across India; from havellis (large houses with an enclosed courtyard) in the north, to plantation mansions in the south. A week later, I sample what sort of experience they have to offer in the nation's capital. My taxi pulls up outside a rather unwelcoming gate in the lively (read noisy and polluted) Delhi suburb of South Extension II. A man in a vest shambles out. I'm about to tell the driver to forget it when we glean from Man A that we have found the back door.At the front, a slightly better attired gentleman eyes me cautiously and tells me he has no rooms. After some effort, we establish that I do indeed have a reservation and he shows me to an unprepossessing room with twin single beds. Someone has gone to fetch the owner. In the meantime, Man B stands in the doorway, trapping me in the room. I feel the urge to go home (not so far-fetched: I live about a 10-minute taxi ride away), but my escape is foiled by the owner, Sunil Saigal, who greets me with an outstretched hand. We sit down, I start to say hello and Man B interrupts to demand my passport. Then my name. Then my address in the UK. Then a signature.Mr Saigal shows me around and I note that everyone else has nicer rooms than I do. Downstairs, he explains that the guests come and go in the evenings but there is usually someone in the main living room. I seize the opportunity to escape for a few hours to take a stroll in the nearby Deer Park and the craft shops of Hauz Khas village, but it is apparently Lord Shiva's birthday and half of them are closed. Muttering darkly about this being just the sort of local knowledge the Mahindra hosts are supposed to have at their fingertips, I return to my room, eyeing the narrow single beds balefully and planning to hunker down until I can escape at dawn. I call my wife. 'Don't be stupid. Go out and see who is there. You'll enjoy it,' she tells me crossly.Reluctantly, I venture out. Mr Saigal is sitting in an armchair against the wall with a cigarette in one hand and a tumbler of whisky in the other. A bottle is fetched and a glass for me. More people appear, including a Norwegian woman dressed in a salwar kameez and Sunil's brother, Raman. Then Mrs Saigal - Rashmi - ambles in. At some point, a businessman arrives; he does something in television. More whisky appears. They are all lovely. I learn many things, then promptly forget them. If the idea is to give guests a flavour of the real India, it is working - the flavour is whisky.It is gone 1.30am when I grope blearily for the door handle and discover that I am physically incapable of forming letters on the page of my notebook. All I can remember is that at some point in the evening I agreed to buy a car. I have no idea what sort though, if pushed, I would guess that it was probably pink.Mahindra Homestays currently has more than 50 properties in Delhi, and in the states of Rajasthan, Kerala and Himachal Pradesh, with plans to double the number on offer by the end of the year. Rooms cost from \u00a322 to \u00a377 per night, including breakfast. Dinner can be arranged for an additional fee. \u00b7 For information and bookings, call 0203 140 8422 or visit mahindrahomestays.comSantiago, ChileA home stay, combined with a language course, can be a great way to get under the skin of a country. Language specialist Cactus has a variety of courses, both group and individual, from one week to three months. In Santiago, it offers two levels of home stay, normal and 'executive' (a double rather than a single room, private bathroom, etc), with vetted host families who live near the college where your lessons take place. Breakfast and dinner are included, giving you the chance to practise your new language skills over family meals.\u00b7 A two-week course costs from \u00a3599, excluding flights, through Cactus (0845 130 4775; cactuslanguage.com).Maori home stay, New ZealandIf you want a feel for New Zealand's indigenous peoples and their culture, you can't beat a Maori home stay. Accommodation includes farms - where the owners will take you walking and fishing; a home in the Kaituna Glades, where you can visit the Whanganui township and go canoeing; or a more urban stay in Napier, where the hosts will take you hunting and to local Maori art centres where you can see items such as totem poles.\u00b7 Rates depend on length of stay. For more information, ring 00 64 6 835 9933 or visit amhnz.com.Beijing, ChinaIf you're happy to teach your hosts a little English, you can reduce the cost of a stay in the Chinese capital - International Homestay China offers two rates, an all-inclusive home stay with a daily meal and orientation sessions (essential in China), or a teach-to-live home stay, where the costs are reduced in return for three to five hours of English tuition with your hosts. IHC also offers family home stays, with two or three bedrooms available.\u00b7 Rates depend on the length and type of stay. More information at 00 86 010 8765 8256; inthomestaychina.comKhmer home stay, CambodiaIf you only want to spend a short time in a home stay, there are itineraries that include four or five-night stays as part of a longer itinerary. Adventure operator Explore works with a community project in the village of Baray; visitors stay with local families for four nights, experiencing village life and helping with the renovation of a local school and the homes of elderly people. \u00b7 The home stay is part of a 16-day itinerary through Explore (0845 013 1537; explore.co.uk) that includes visits to Siem Reap and Phnom Penh, costing \u00a31,800. Accommodation, some meals and guides are included.Home stay Safaris, KenyaStay with a Masai or Samburu host family, where you will have the chance to visit rural markets, be shown around villages and share a traditional way of life. Accommodation may be simple - you specify whether you want a home with or without electricity - and some of the properties are very rural, giving a unique glimpse of African tribal life.\u00b7 More information at boma-africa.com.Casas Particular, CubaOne of the best ways to get to know Cuba is to stay in a Casa Particular in Havana - a government-regulated system of accommodation, which offers rooms in local people's homes. Some of the best are in Habana Vieja, the capital's old town.\u00b7 Rates depend on length of stay. See casaparticular.info. Prices start at about $20 a night.", "tags": ["India holidays", "Travel"], "title": "India: the inside story"},{"date": "2008-09-29T05:56:41Z", "country": "india", "content": "Cond\u00e9 Nast is today unveiling the 15th global edition of its men's magazine GQ by launching in India.The October issue opens GQ's Indian account by featuring the country's leading lights of Bollywood, cricket and fashion - respectively Saif Ali Khan, Yuvraj Singh and Arjun Rampal. The monthly magazine will distribute 35,000 copies of its first issue in 40 Indian towns and cities priced at R100 (\u00a31.17).The launch issue also features an exclusive interview with steel tycoon Aditya Mittal.Che Kurrien will edit GQ India and an accompanying Indian-focused website, gqmagazine.in, will launch simultaneously today. Cond\u00e9 Nast's plans to launch an Indian edition of the upmarket men's magazine were made public in April, as the publisher announced its aim to follow the success of Vogue's launch in India.Cond\u00e9 Nast launched Vogue India in September 2007 after gaining permission from the Indian government to own 100% of its Indian subsidiary.A change of regulation in 2005 allowed non-news and current affairs publications to be wholly foreign-owned. Cond\u00e9 Nast India was one of the first companies established under the new rules.Other popular European magazines were previously launched under licence.Like Vogue India, Cond\u00e9 Nast will collaborate with a leading distribution company, the Living Media Group, to make the GQ available throughout India, where it will be on sale at 5,500 different outlets.GQ was first launched in America in 1957 as Gentleman's Quarterly, a fashion spin-off from Esquire.Cond\u00e9 Nast took over the magazine in 1983 and launched it in the UK in September 1988.\u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.\u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".", "tags": ["Consumer magazines", "Conde Nast", "Newspapers & magazines", "Media", "India", "World news", "Magazines"], "title": "GQ launches in India"},{"date": "2008-09-06T23:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The last time I stayed in a guesthouse in the UK, it was remarkable only for the fact that it was painted pink. The first guesthouse I visited in India was in the pink-painted city of Jaipur. Fortunately, the similarities ended there.Whereas Dreary-on-Sea featured a slightly camp host with all-too unique design skills and accommodation that exuded defeat, the Jaipur flagship of a new wave of Indian B&Bs offered a glimpse of a world no ordinary hotel chain could hope to provide.We are sitting on wicker chairs in a small, open-sided structure at the edge of an immaculate lawn as dusk falls. What appears to be a one-legged bird is hopping clumsily across the grass, pecking industriously at the grass. Away to the east, the elephants that plough up and down the shore of the lake that surrounds the Jai Mahal palace are nearing the end of their working day. As the light fails, the city - originally painted yellow, but now repainted a deep, almost orange shade of pink - glows in the twilight.The lawn is bounded on two sides by the balconied wings of an imposing, beautifully decorated house, the Madhu Pushp Bhawan. Overhead, a fan is throwing mosquitoes off course.We are in the state of Rajasthan, which the Rough Guide warns is notoriously unwelcoming to drinkers, yet the remains of a bottle of chilled Kingfisher beer stands on the table. Half of it is in my glass, the rest in that of Madhavendra Singh Chauhan, former chief conservator of wildlife in Rajasthan's forestry department. Mr Chauhan is a man of means, a Rajput; a member of the warrior class, he explains. The house has always been the family home - and it still is, even though Mr Chauhan's son, Jaideep, who recently left the employ of the luxury Oberoi hotel chain, has put his experience to work by opening it up as a guesthouse - with his father's blessing. The house is one of a growing chain run by the powerful Mahindra family, which also makes cars and owns a bank. It offers home stays which combine, according to the company, 'the comfort and distinction of a boutique hotel with the personal hospitality, informality and local knowledge enjoyed when staying with family friends'.The big selling point is the insight into Indian family life. Some people just visit the Chauhans for the afternoon, to take tea or dinner with the family, crowding into the kitchen to watch Mr Chauhan's wife, Bushbendra, and her daughter-in-law, Madhu, work their magic with spices and to pepper them with questions; others stay the night in one of the seven guest bedrooms.Inside, the wings head off from a vast main room. An open door reveals Jaideep's eight-year-old son sprawled on a bed watching television, while the head of a rather startled tiger pokes out from the wall above the family prayer room. 'Shot by my grandfather sometime before 1920,' Chauhan senior explains. The rooms are furnished exquisitely, finely carved furniture vying with delicate pieces of silver.Dinner is served upstairs. Jaideep sits across from me while Madhu hovers. She prefers to eat a little later, but sits anyway and takes a bowl of dal. Parathas arrive, warm and flaky. I watch carefully to see what order Jaideep takes the food in (a day earlier, I disgraced myself in a Delhi restaurant by dipping my bread into a bowl of tapioca which was meant to be the dessert element of a thali). After dinner, I retire to a room that is not extravagantly furnished but is on the right side of comfortable. I cannot find a top sheet, but the room is warm and I can't be bothered to disturb anyone to find me one. I lie down and start to fall asleep, only to be woken by an icy blast from the air-conditioning unit. I reset it, switch off the light - and 20 minutes later I'm blasted again. I give up, switch it off and opt for the ceiling fan, which does an admirable and remarkably silent job. It is my only real grumble. Oddly, in a hotel this would have driven me crazy. I would have been on the phone, demanding to move rooms. But here it would have seemed bad manners, like staying at a friend's house and asking to swap bedrooms because you didn't like the colour of the wallpaper. Mahindra has been signing up guesthouses across India; from havellis (large houses with an enclosed courtyard) in the north, to plantation mansions in the south. A week later, I sample what sort of experience they have to offer in the nation's capital. My taxi pulls up outside a rather unwelcoming gate in the lively (read noisy and polluted) Delhi suburb of South Extension II. A man in a vest shambles out. I'm about to tell the driver to forget it when we glean from Man A that we have found the back door.At the front, a slightly better attired gentleman eyes me cautiously and tells me he has no rooms. After some effort, we establish that I do indeed have a reservation and he shows me to an unprepossessing room with twin single beds. Someone has gone to fetch the owner. In the meantime, Man B stands in the doorway, trapping me in the room. I feel the urge to go home (not so far-fetched: I live about a 10-minute taxi ride away), but my escape is foiled by the owner, Sunil Saigal, who greets me with an outstretched hand. We sit down, I start to say hello and Man B interrupts to demand my passport. Then my name. Then my address in the UK. Then a signature.Mr Saigal shows me around and I note that everyone else has nicer rooms than I do. Downstairs, he explains that the guests come and go in the evenings but there is usually someone in the main living room. I seize the opportunity to escape for a few hours to take a stroll in the nearby Deer Park and the craft shops of Hauz Khas village, but it is apparently Lord Shiva's birthday and half of them are closed. Muttering darkly about this being just the sort of local knowledge the Mahindra hosts are supposed to have at their fingertips, I return to my room, eyeing the narrow single beds balefully and planning to hunker down until I can escape at dawn. I call my wife. 'Don't be stupid. Go out and see who is there. You'll enjoy it,' she tells me crossly.Reluctantly, I venture out. Mr Saigal is sitting in an armchair against the wall with a cigarette in one hand and a tumbler of whisky in the other. A bottle is fetched and a glass for me. More people appear, including a Norwegian woman dressed in a salwar kameez and Sunil's brother, Raman. Then Mrs Saigal - Rashmi - ambles in. At some point, a businessman arrives; he does something in television. More whisky appears. They are all lovely. I learn many things, then promptly forget them. If the idea is to give guests a flavour of the real India, it is working - the flavour is whisky.It is gone 1.30am when I grope blearily for the door handle and discover that I am physically incapable of forming letters on the page of my notebook. All I can remember is that at some point in the evening I agreed to buy a car. I have no idea what sort though, if pushed, I would guess that it was probably pink.Mahindra Homestays currently has more than 50 properties in Delhi, and in the states of Rajasthan, Kerala and Himachal Pradesh, with plans to double the number on offer by the end of the year. Rooms cost from \u00a322 to \u00a377 per night, including breakfast. Dinner can be arranged for an additional fee. \u00b7 For information and bookings, call 0203 140 8422 or visit mahindrahomestays.comSantiago, ChileA home stay, combined with a language course, can be a great way to get under the skin of a country. Language specialist Cactus has a variety of courses, both group and individual, from one week to three months. In Santiago, it offers two levels of home stay, normal and 'executive' (a double rather than a single room, private bathroom, etc), with vetted host families who live near the college where your lessons take place. Breakfast and dinner are included, giving you the chance to practise your new language skills over family meals.\u00b7 A two-week course costs from \u00a3599, excluding flights, through Cactus (0845 130 4775; cactuslanguage.com).Maori home stay, New ZealandIf you want a feel for New Zealand's indigenous peoples and their culture, you can't beat a Maori home stay. Accommodation includes farms - where the owners will take you walking and fishing; a home in the Kaituna Glades, where you can visit the Whanganui township and go canoeing; or a more urban stay in Napier, where the hosts will take you hunting and to local Maori art centres where you can see items such as totem poles.\u00b7 Rates depend on length of stay. For more information, ring 00 64 6 835 9933 or visit amhnz.com.Beijing, ChinaIf you're happy to teach your hosts a little English, you can reduce the cost of a stay in the Chinese capital - International Homestay China offers two rates, an all-inclusive home stay with a daily meal and orientation sessions (essential in China), or a teach-to-live home stay, where the costs are reduced in return for three to five hours of English tuition with your hosts. IHC also offers family home stays, with two or three bedrooms available.\u00b7 Rates depend on the length and type of stay. More information at 00 86 010 8765 8256; inthomestaychina.comKhmer home stay, CambodiaIf you only want to spend a short time in a home stay, there are itineraries that include four or five-night stays as part of a longer itinerary. Adventure operator Explore works with a community project in the village of Baray; visitors stay with local families for four nights, experiencing village life and helping with the renovation of a local school and the homes of elderly people. \u00b7 The home stay is part of a 16-day itinerary through Explore (0845 013 1537; explore.co.uk) that includes visits to Siem Reap and Phnom Penh, costing \u00a31,800. Accommodation, some meals and guides are included.Home stay Safaris, KenyaStay with a Masai or Samburu host family, where you will have the chance to visit rural markets, be shown around villages and share a traditional way of life. Accommodation may be simple - you specify whether you want a home with or without electricity - and some of the properties are very rural, giving a unique glimpse of African tribal life.\u00b7 More information at boma-africa.com.Casas Particular, CubaOne of the best ways to get to know Cuba is to stay in a Casa Particular in Havana - a government-regulated system of accommodation, which offers rooms in local people's homes. Some of the best are in Habana Vieja, the capital's old town.\u00b7 Rates depend on length of stay. See casaparticular.info. Prices start at about $20 a night.", "tags": ["India holidays", "Travel"], "title": "India: the inside story"},{"date": "2008-07-21T14:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The vote of confidence offered by the Indian government signals that George Bush might get regime change in yet another large Asian nation.It was president Bush who, in a typical snub in 2006 to the international system, said that America was prepared to accept India as a nuclear power despite the country exploding a bomb less than a decade ago. The deal was announced on the lawns of colonial Delhi and the series of political earthquakes it set off now threaten to topple the government when the parliament votes on July 22. This is a crucial moment for the world's largest democracy.  The Indian prime minister, in person an elderly, bearded, smiling, policy wonk with degrees from Oxford and Cambridge, has long sung the praises of the deal. He saw Mr Bush's three-day visit as comparable to Richard Nixon's rapprochement with China in 1973. Officials gleefully told this correspondent that the deal ushers India on to the world stage as a major power.But that was then. Two years followed where nothing happened. The left, whose support is crucial for the government's survival, vetoed the deal because it was offered by the toxic Texan and see in it an American plan to reduce India to a client state. By sticking to his guns, Singh has emerged as an unlikely political figure. Offered the job to run the country by the Gandhi family after they won the elections in 2004, he has displayed a strong impulse for change \u2013 aware that in his country the atmosphere of action can all too easily become a substitute for action.  Hence the prime minister's gamble to break with the communists. Rather than live any longer with the support of the approximately 60 leftwing MPs, he has decided to go to parliament. If that fails, he will be sent to the people.The Indian prime's message is that the world has changed, and India needs to change too. Delhi wants a seat on the security council, arguing its economic and military weight have been long unrecognised. How the deal's opponents square this demand with the fact at present the country is a nuclear rogue state remains unanswered.It seems obvious, to Mr Singh, too that no longer can India sit in splendid isolation, reinventing nuclear technology just to satisfy the deep-rooted but deluded nationalism of self-sufficiency.  The country has energy needs that in the future cannot be met solely by oil, gas and coal. Climate change too means these fossil fuels are dead. While we are all waiting for solar power to come good, nuclear \u2013 with all its problems \u2013 remains a good bet for an emerging dynamo like India. These big issues have become lost in the dust thrown up by the political fist fights of the last few days. The vote is on a knife edge \u2013 with half a dozen MPs from the extremes of India holding the balance of power. There have been accusations of MPs being offered bribes of \u00a33m to switch sides. As regional parties have held the balance of power for more than a decade, coalition politics is a fact of Indian life. Small players wield disproportionate power. The result is that the leader of India's dalit (\"untouchable\") caste, Mayawati, whose remarkable political rise from humble schoolteacher to leader of India's biggest state, Uttar Pradesh, could bring down the government \u2013 although she only has 17 votes in parliament.Behind these machinations and the nuclear deal itself, lie some big questions. For some, democracy itself has not proven up to the task of modernising India, which for all its economic growth still is home to 300m of the world's poor. Others say what is needed is a period of politics-free leadership, a kind of national unity government. Mr Singh recognises India's real problem: whether a class of people has arisen in society with the capacity and ruthlessness to force through necessary changes. His bet is that this time is approaching fast.  Mr Singh's government has triumphantly promoted India as the \"world's largest free-market democracy\" despite socialism being written into the country's constitution. The prime minister sees Indians as being creative, confident, inventive and argumentative people with a natural antipathy to ideology \u2013 preferring to be pragmatic in their decisions.  The nuclear deal, in his eyes, is about these emphasising these traits. It is a big-bang moment for India. Not because of the deal's technical content but because of what it says about the country.", "tags": ["India", "World news"], "title": "Randeep Ramesh: India's confidence vote on nuclear weapons will shape global geopolitics"},{"date": "2008-09-29T05:56:41Z", "country": "india", "content": "Cond\u00e9 Nast is today unveiling the 15th global edition of its men's magazine GQ by launching in India.The October issue opens GQ's Indian account by featuring the country's leading lights of Bollywood, cricket and fashion - respectively Saif Ali Khan, Yuvraj Singh and Arjun Rampal. The monthly magazine will distribute 35,000 copies of its first issue in 40 Indian towns and cities priced at R100 (\u00a31.17).The launch issue also features an exclusive interview with steel tycoon Aditya Mittal.Che Kurrien will edit GQ India and an accompanying Indian-focused website, gqmagazine.in, will launch simultaneously today. Cond\u00e9 Nast's plans to launch an Indian edition of the upmarket men's magazine were made public in April, as the publisher announced its aim to follow the success of Vogue's launch in India.Cond\u00e9 Nast launched Vogue India in September 2007 after gaining permission from the Indian government to own 100% of its Indian subsidiary.A change of regulation in 2005 allowed non-news and current affairs publications to be wholly foreign-owned. Cond\u00e9 Nast India was one of the first companies established under the new rules.Other popular European magazines were previously launched under licence.Like Vogue India, Cond\u00e9 Nast will collaborate with a leading distribution company, the Living Media Group, to make the GQ available throughout India, where it will be on sale at 5,500 different outlets.GQ was first launched in America in 1957 as Gentleman's Quarterly, a fashion spin-off from Esquire.Cond\u00e9 Nast took over the magazine in 1983 and launched it in the UK in September 1988.\u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.\u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".", "tags": ["Consumer magazines", "Conde Nast", "Newspapers & magazines", "Media", "India", "World news", "Magazines"], "title": "GQ launches in India"},{"date": "2008-09-06T23:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The last time I stayed in a guesthouse in the UK, it was remarkable only for the fact that it was painted pink. The first guesthouse I visited in India was in the pink-painted city of Jaipur. Fortunately, the similarities ended there.Whereas Dreary-on-Sea featured a slightly camp host with all-too unique design skills and accommodation that exuded defeat, the Jaipur flagship of a new wave of Indian B&Bs offered a glimpse of a world no ordinary hotel chain could hope to provide.We are sitting on wicker chairs in a small, open-sided structure at the edge of an immaculate lawn as dusk falls. What appears to be a one-legged bird is hopping clumsily across the grass, pecking industriously at the grass. Away to the east, the elephants that plough up and down the shore of the lake that surrounds the Jai Mahal palace are nearing the end of their working day. As the light fails, the city - originally painted yellow, but now repainted a deep, almost orange shade of pink - glows in the twilight.The lawn is bounded on two sides by the balconied wings of an imposing, beautifully decorated house, the Madhu Pushp Bhawan. Overhead, a fan is throwing mosquitoes off course.We are in the state of Rajasthan, which the Rough Guide warns is notoriously unwelcoming to drinkers, yet the remains of a bottle of chilled Kingfisher beer stands on the table. Half of it is in my glass, the rest in that of Madhavendra Singh Chauhan, former chief conservator of wildlife in Rajasthan's forestry department. Mr Chauhan is a man of means, a Rajput; a member of the warrior class, he explains. The house has always been the family home - and it still is, even though Mr Chauhan's son, Jaideep, who recently left the employ of the luxury Oberoi hotel chain, has put his experience to work by opening it up as a guesthouse - with his father's blessing. The house is one of a growing chain run by the powerful Mahindra family, which also makes cars and owns a bank. It offers home stays which combine, according to the company, 'the comfort and distinction of a boutique hotel with the personal hospitality, informality and local knowledge enjoyed when staying with family friends'.The big selling point is the insight into Indian family life. Some people just visit the Chauhans for the afternoon, to take tea or dinner with the family, crowding into the kitchen to watch Mr Chauhan's wife, Bushbendra, and her daughter-in-law, Madhu, work their magic with spices and to pepper them with questions; others stay the night in one of the seven guest bedrooms.Inside, the wings head off from a vast main room. An open door reveals Jaideep's eight-year-old son sprawled on a bed watching television, while the head of a rather startled tiger pokes out from the wall above the family prayer room. 'Shot by my grandfather sometime before 1920,' Chauhan senior explains. The rooms are furnished exquisitely, finely carved furniture vying with delicate pieces of silver.Dinner is served upstairs. Jaideep sits across from me while Madhu hovers. She prefers to eat a little later, but sits anyway and takes a bowl of dal. Parathas arrive, warm and flaky. I watch carefully to see what order Jaideep takes the food in (a day earlier, I disgraced myself in a Delhi restaurant by dipping my bread into a bowl of tapioca which was meant to be the dessert element of a thali). After dinner, I retire to a room that is not extravagantly furnished but is on the right side of comfortable. I cannot find a top sheet, but the room is warm and I can't be bothered to disturb anyone to find me one. I lie down and start to fall asleep, only to be woken by an icy blast from the air-conditioning unit. I reset it, switch off the light - and 20 minutes later I'm blasted again. I give up, switch it off and opt for the ceiling fan, which does an admirable and remarkably silent job. It is my only real grumble. Oddly, in a hotel this would have driven me crazy. I would have been on the phone, demanding to move rooms. But here it would have seemed bad manners, like staying at a friend's house and asking to swap bedrooms because you didn't like the colour of the wallpaper. Mahindra has been signing up guesthouses across India; from havellis (large houses with an enclosed courtyard) in the north, to plantation mansions in the south. A week later, I sample what sort of experience they have to offer in the nation's capital. My taxi pulls up outside a rather unwelcoming gate in the lively (read noisy and polluted) Delhi suburb of South Extension II. A man in a vest shambles out. I'm about to tell the driver to forget it when we glean from Man A that we have found the back door.At the front, a slightly better attired gentleman eyes me cautiously and tells me he has no rooms. After some effort, we establish that I do indeed have a reservation and he shows me to an unprepossessing room with twin single beds. Someone has gone to fetch the owner. In the meantime, Man B stands in the doorway, trapping me in the room. I feel the urge to go home (not so far-fetched: I live about a 10-minute taxi ride away), but my escape is foiled by the owner, Sunil Saigal, who greets me with an outstretched hand. We sit down, I start to say hello and Man B interrupts to demand my passport. Then my name. Then my address in the UK. Then a signature.Mr Saigal shows me around and I note that everyone else has nicer rooms than I do. Downstairs, he explains that the guests come and go in the evenings but there is usually someone in the main living room. I seize the opportunity to escape for a few hours to take a stroll in the nearby Deer Park and the craft shops of Hauz Khas village, but it is apparently Lord Shiva's birthday and half of them are closed. Muttering darkly about this being just the sort of local knowledge the Mahindra hosts are supposed to have at their fingertips, I return to my room, eyeing the narrow single beds balefully and planning to hunker down until I can escape at dawn. I call my wife. 'Don't be stupid. Go out and see who is there. You'll enjoy it,' she tells me crossly.Reluctantly, I venture out. Mr Saigal is sitting in an armchair against the wall with a cigarette in one hand and a tumbler of whisky in the other. A bottle is fetched and a glass for me. More people appear, including a Norwegian woman dressed in a salwar kameez and Sunil's brother, Raman. Then Mrs Saigal - Rashmi - ambles in. At some point, a businessman arrives; he does something in television. More whisky appears. They are all lovely. I learn many things, then promptly forget them. If the idea is to give guests a flavour of the real India, it is working - the flavour is whisky.It is gone 1.30am when I grope blearily for the door handle and discover that I am physically incapable of forming letters on the page of my notebook. All I can remember is that at some point in the evening I agreed to buy a car. I have no idea what sort though, if pushed, I would guess that it was probably pink.Mahindra Homestays currently has more than 50 properties in Delhi, and in the states of Rajasthan, Kerala and Himachal Pradesh, with plans to double the number on offer by the end of the year. Rooms cost from \u00a322 to \u00a377 per night, including breakfast. Dinner can be arranged for an additional fee. \u00b7 For information and bookings, call 0203 140 8422 or visit mahindrahomestays.comSantiago, ChileA home stay, combined with a language course, can be a great way to get under the skin of a country. Language specialist Cactus has a variety of courses, both group and individual, from one week to three months. In Santiago, it offers two levels of home stay, normal and 'executive' (a double rather than a single room, private bathroom, etc), with vetted host families who live near the college where your lessons take place. Breakfast and dinner are included, giving you the chance to practise your new language skills over family meals.\u00b7 A two-week course costs from \u00a3599, excluding flights, through Cactus (0845 130 4775; cactuslanguage.com).Maori home stay, New ZealandIf you want a feel for New Zealand's indigenous peoples and their culture, you can't beat a Maori home stay. Accommodation includes farms - where the owners will take you walking and fishing; a home in the Kaituna Glades, where you can visit the Whanganui township and go canoeing; or a more urban stay in Napier, where the hosts will take you hunting and to local Maori art centres where you can see items such as totem poles.\u00b7 Rates depend on length of stay. For more information, ring 00 64 6 835 9933 or visit amhnz.com.Beijing, ChinaIf you're happy to teach your hosts a little English, you can reduce the cost of a stay in the Chinese capital - International Homestay China offers two rates, an all-inclusive home stay with a daily meal and orientation sessions (essential in China), or a teach-to-live home stay, where the costs are reduced in return for three to five hours of English tuition with your hosts. IHC also offers family home stays, with two or three bedrooms available.\u00b7 Rates depend on the length and type of stay. More information at 00 86 010 8765 8256; inthomestaychina.comKhmer home stay, CambodiaIf you only want to spend a short time in a home stay, there are itineraries that include four or five-night stays as part of a longer itinerary. Adventure operator Explore works with a community project in the village of Baray; visitors stay with local families for four nights, experiencing village life and helping with the renovation of a local school and the homes of elderly people. \u00b7 The home stay is part of a 16-day itinerary through Explore (0845 013 1537; explore.co.uk) that includes visits to Siem Reap and Phnom Penh, costing \u00a31,800. Accommodation, some meals and guides are included.Home stay Safaris, KenyaStay with a Masai or Samburu host family, where you will have the chance to visit rural markets, be shown around villages and share a traditional way of life. Accommodation may be simple - you specify whether you want a home with or without electricity - and some of the properties are very rural, giving a unique glimpse of African tribal life.\u00b7 More information at boma-africa.com.Casas Particular, CubaOne of the best ways to get to know Cuba is to stay in a Casa Particular in Havana - a government-regulated system of accommodation, which offers rooms in local people's homes. Some of the best are in Habana Vieja, the capital's old town.\u00b7 Rates depend on length of stay. See casaparticular.info. Prices start at about $20 a night.", "tags": ["India holidays", "Travel"], "title": "India: the inside story"},{"date": "2008-07-21T14:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The vote of confidence offered by the Indian government signals that George Bush might get regime change in yet another large Asian nation.It was president Bush who, in a typical snub in 2006 to the international system, said that America was prepared to accept India as a nuclear power despite the country exploding a bomb less than a decade ago. The deal was announced on the lawns of colonial Delhi and the series of political earthquakes it set off now threaten to topple the government when the parliament votes on July 22. This is a crucial moment for the world's largest democracy.  The Indian prime minister, in person an elderly, bearded, smiling, policy wonk with degrees from Oxford and Cambridge, has long sung the praises of the deal. He saw Mr Bush's three-day visit as comparable to Richard Nixon's rapprochement with China in 1973. Officials gleefully told this correspondent that the deal ushers India on to the world stage as a major power.But that was then. Two years followed where nothing happened. The left, whose support is crucial for the government's survival, vetoed the deal because it was offered by the toxic Texan and see in it an American plan to reduce India to a client state. By sticking to his guns, Singh has emerged as an unlikely political figure. Offered the job to run the country by the Gandhi family after they won the elections in 2004, he has displayed a strong impulse for change \u2013 aware that in his country the atmosphere of action can all too easily become a substitute for action.  Hence the prime minister's gamble to break with the communists. Rather than live any longer with the support of the approximately 60 leftwing MPs, he has decided to go to parliament. If that fails, he will be sent to the people.The Indian prime's message is that the world has changed, and India needs to change too. Delhi wants a seat on the security council, arguing its economic and military weight have been long unrecognised. How the deal's opponents square this demand with the fact at present the country is a nuclear rogue state remains unanswered.It seems obvious, to Mr Singh, too that no longer can India sit in splendid isolation, reinventing nuclear technology just to satisfy the deep-rooted but deluded nationalism of self-sufficiency.  The country has energy needs that in the future cannot be met solely by oil, gas and coal. Climate change too means these fossil fuels are dead. While we are all waiting for solar power to come good, nuclear \u2013 with all its problems \u2013 remains a good bet for an emerging dynamo like India. These big issues have become lost in the dust thrown up by the political fist fights of the last few days. The vote is on a knife edge \u2013 with half a dozen MPs from the extremes of India holding the balance of power. There have been accusations of MPs being offered bribes of \u00a33m to switch sides. As regional parties have held the balance of power for more than a decade, coalition politics is a fact of Indian life. Small players wield disproportionate power. The result is that the leader of India's dalit (\"untouchable\") caste, Mayawati, whose remarkable political rise from humble schoolteacher to leader of India's biggest state, Uttar Pradesh, could bring down the government \u2013 although she only has 17 votes in parliament.Behind these machinations and the nuclear deal itself, lie some big questions. For some, democracy itself has not proven up to the task of modernising India, which for all its economic growth still is home to 300m of the world's poor. Others say what is needed is a period of politics-free leadership, a kind of national unity government. Mr Singh recognises India's real problem: whether a class of people has arisen in society with the capacity and ruthlessness to force through necessary changes. His bet is that this time is approaching fast.  Mr Singh's government has triumphantly promoted India as the \"world's largest free-market democracy\" despite socialism being written into the country's constitution. The prime minister sees Indians as being creative, confident, inventive and argumentative people with a natural antipathy to ideology \u2013 preferring to be pragmatic in their decisions.  The nuclear deal, in his eyes, is about these emphasising these traits. It is a big-bang moment for India. Not because of the deal's technical content but because of what it says about the country.", "tags": ["India", "World news"], "title": "Randeep Ramesh: India's confidence vote on nuclear weapons will shape global geopolitics"},{"date": "2008-09-24T07:43:25Z", "country": "india", "content": "Research into production outsourcing by US and UK newspapers estimates that it is worth \u00a31.9bn to the Indian economy at present and could reach \u00a36.5bn by 2012. The study, by ValueNotes, claims that 26,000 people already work in the offshored publishing industry, which is expected to grow to 74,000 over the next two years. (Via Times of India)", "tags": ["Media", "Newspapers & magazines"], "title": "Roy Greenslade: Newspaper outsourcing worth \u00a36bn to India"},{"date": "2008-09-29T05:56:41Z", "country": "india", "content": "Cond\u00e9 Nast is today unveiling the 15th global edition of its men's magazine GQ by launching in India.The October issue opens GQ's Indian account by featuring the country's leading lights of Bollywood, cricket and fashion - respectively Saif Ali Khan, Yuvraj Singh and Arjun Rampal. The monthly magazine will distribute 35,000 copies of its first issue in 40 Indian towns and cities priced at R100 (\u00a31.17).The launch issue also features an exclusive interview with steel tycoon Aditya Mittal.Che Kurrien will edit GQ India and an accompanying Indian-focused website, gqmagazine.in, will launch simultaneously today. Cond\u00e9 Nast's plans to launch an Indian edition of the upmarket men's magazine were made public in April, as the publisher announced its aim to follow the success of Vogue's launch in India.Cond\u00e9 Nast launched Vogue India in September 2007 after gaining permission from the Indian government to own 100% of its Indian subsidiary.A change of regulation in 2005 allowed non-news and current affairs publications to be wholly foreign-owned. Cond\u00e9 Nast India was one of the first companies established under the new rules.Other popular European magazines were previously launched under licence.Like Vogue India, Cond\u00e9 Nast will collaborate with a leading distribution company, the Living Media Group, to make the GQ available throughout India, where it will be on sale at 5,500 different outlets.GQ was first launched in America in 1957 as Gentleman's Quarterly, a fashion spin-off from Esquire.Cond\u00e9 Nast took over the magazine in 1983 and launched it in the UK in September 1988.\u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.\u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".", "tags": ["Consumer magazines", "Conde Nast", "Newspapers & magazines", "Media", "India", "World news", "Magazines"], "title": "GQ launches in India"},{"date": "2008-09-06T23:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The last time I stayed in a guesthouse in the UK, it was remarkable only for the fact that it was painted pink. The first guesthouse I visited in India was in the pink-painted city of Jaipur. Fortunately, the similarities ended there.Whereas Dreary-on-Sea featured a slightly camp host with all-too unique design skills and accommodation that exuded defeat, the Jaipur flagship of a new wave of Indian B&Bs offered a glimpse of a world no ordinary hotel chain could hope to provide.We are sitting on wicker chairs in a small, open-sided structure at the edge of an immaculate lawn as dusk falls. What appears to be a one-legged bird is hopping clumsily across the grass, pecking industriously at the grass. Away to the east, the elephants that plough up and down the shore of the lake that surrounds the Jai Mahal palace are nearing the end of their working day. As the light fails, the city - originally painted yellow, but now repainted a deep, almost orange shade of pink - glows in the twilight.The lawn is bounded on two sides by the balconied wings of an imposing, beautifully decorated house, the Madhu Pushp Bhawan. Overhead, a fan is throwing mosquitoes off course.We are in the state of Rajasthan, which the Rough Guide warns is notoriously unwelcoming to drinkers, yet the remains of a bottle of chilled Kingfisher beer stands on the table. Half of it is in my glass, the rest in that of Madhavendra Singh Chauhan, former chief conservator of wildlife in Rajasthan's forestry department. Mr Chauhan is a man of means, a Rajput; a member of the warrior class, he explains. The house has always been the family home - and it still is, even though Mr Chauhan's son, Jaideep, who recently left the employ of the luxury Oberoi hotel chain, has put his experience to work by opening it up as a guesthouse - with his father's blessing. The house is one of a growing chain run by the powerful Mahindra family, which also makes cars and owns a bank. It offers home stays which combine, according to the company, 'the comfort and distinction of a boutique hotel with the personal hospitality, informality and local knowledge enjoyed when staying with family friends'.The big selling point is the insight into Indian family life. Some people just visit the Chauhans for the afternoon, to take tea or dinner with the family, crowding into the kitchen to watch Mr Chauhan's wife, Bushbendra, and her daughter-in-law, Madhu, work their magic with spices and to pepper them with questions; others stay the night in one of the seven guest bedrooms.Inside, the wings head off from a vast main room. An open door reveals Jaideep's eight-year-old son sprawled on a bed watching television, while the head of a rather startled tiger pokes out from the wall above the family prayer room. 'Shot by my grandfather sometime before 1920,' Chauhan senior explains. The rooms are furnished exquisitely, finely carved furniture vying with delicate pieces of silver.Dinner is served upstairs. Jaideep sits across from me while Madhu hovers. She prefers to eat a little later, but sits anyway and takes a bowl of dal. Parathas arrive, warm and flaky. I watch carefully to see what order Jaideep takes the food in (a day earlier, I disgraced myself in a Delhi restaurant by dipping my bread into a bowl of tapioca which was meant to be the dessert element of a thali). After dinner, I retire to a room that is not extravagantly furnished but is on the right side of comfortable. I cannot find a top sheet, but the room is warm and I can't be bothered to disturb anyone to find me one. I lie down and start to fall asleep, only to be woken by an icy blast from the air-conditioning unit. I reset it, switch off the light - and 20 minutes later I'm blasted again. I give up, switch it off and opt for the ceiling fan, which does an admirable and remarkably silent job. It is my only real grumble. Oddly, in a hotel this would have driven me crazy. I would have been on the phone, demanding to move rooms. But here it would have seemed bad manners, like staying at a friend's house and asking to swap bedrooms because you didn't like the colour of the wallpaper. Mahindra has been signing up guesthouses across India; from havellis (large houses with an enclosed courtyard) in the north, to plantation mansions in the south. A week later, I sample what sort of experience they have to offer in the nation's capital. My taxi pulls up outside a rather unwelcoming gate in the lively (read noisy and polluted) Delhi suburb of South Extension II. A man in a vest shambles out. I'm about to tell the driver to forget it when we glean from Man A that we have found the back door.At the front, a slightly better attired gentleman eyes me cautiously and tells me he has no rooms. After some effort, we establish that I do indeed have a reservation and he shows me to an unprepossessing room with twin single beds. Someone has gone to fetch the owner. In the meantime, Man B stands in the doorway, trapping me in the room. I feel the urge to go home (not so far-fetched: I live about a 10-minute taxi ride away), but my escape is foiled by the owner, Sunil Saigal, who greets me with an outstretched hand. We sit down, I start to say hello and Man B interrupts to demand my passport. Then my name. Then my address in the UK. Then a signature.Mr Saigal shows me around and I note that everyone else has nicer rooms than I do. Downstairs, he explains that the guests come and go in the evenings but there is usually someone in the main living room. I seize the opportunity to escape for a few hours to take a stroll in the nearby Deer Park and the craft shops of Hauz Khas village, but it is apparently Lord Shiva's birthday and half of them are closed. Muttering darkly about this being just the sort of local knowledge the Mahindra hosts are supposed to have at their fingertips, I return to my room, eyeing the narrow single beds balefully and planning to hunker down until I can escape at dawn. I call my wife. 'Don't be stupid. Go out and see who is there. You'll enjoy it,' she tells me crossly.Reluctantly, I venture out. Mr Saigal is sitting in an armchair against the wall with a cigarette in one hand and a tumbler of whisky in the other. A bottle is fetched and a glass for me. More people appear, including a Norwegian woman dressed in a salwar kameez and Sunil's brother, Raman. Then Mrs Saigal - Rashmi - ambles in. At some point, a businessman arrives; he does something in television. More whisky appears. They are all lovely. I learn many things, then promptly forget them. If the idea is to give guests a flavour of the real India, it is working - the flavour is whisky.It is gone 1.30am when I grope blearily for the door handle and discover that I am physically incapable of forming letters on the page of my notebook. All I can remember is that at some point in the evening I agreed to buy a car. I have no idea what sort though, if pushed, I would guess that it was probably pink.Mahindra Homestays currently has more than 50 properties in Delhi, and in the states of Rajasthan, Kerala and Himachal Pradesh, with plans to double the number on offer by the end of the year. Rooms cost from \u00a322 to \u00a377 per night, including breakfast. Dinner can be arranged for an additional fee. \u00b7 For information and bookings, call 0203 140 8422 or visit mahindrahomestays.comSantiago, ChileA home stay, combined with a language course, can be a great way to get under the skin of a country. Language specialist Cactus has a variety of courses, both group and individual, from one week to three months. In Santiago, it offers two levels of home stay, normal and 'executive' (a double rather than a single room, private bathroom, etc), with vetted host families who live near the college where your lessons take place. Breakfast and dinner are included, giving you the chance to practise your new language skills over family meals.\u00b7 A two-week course costs from \u00a3599, excluding flights, through Cactus (0845 130 4775; cactuslanguage.com).Maori home stay, New ZealandIf you want a feel for New Zealand's indigenous peoples and their culture, you can't beat a Maori home stay. Accommodation includes farms - where the owners will take you walking and fishing; a home in the Kaituna Glades, where you can visit the Whanganui township and go canoeing; or a more urban stay in Napier, where the hosts will take you hunting and to local Maori art centres where you can see items such as totem poles.\u00b7 Rates depend on length of stay. For more information, ring 00 64 6 835 9933 or visit amhnz.com.Beijing, ChinaIf you're happy to teach your hosts a little English, you can reduce the cost of a stay in the Chinese capital - International Homestay China offers two rates, an all-inclusive home stay with a daily meal and orientation sessions (essential in China), or a teach-to-live home stay, where the costs are reduced in return for three to five hours of English tuition with your hosts. IHC also offers family home stays, with two or three bedrooms available.\u00b7 Rates depend on the length and type of stay. More information at 00 86 010 8765 8256; inthomestaychina.comKhmer home stay, CambodiaIf you only want to spend a short time in a home stay, there are itineraries that include four or five-night stays as part of a longer itinerary. Adventure operator Explore works with a community project in the village of Baray; visitors stay with local families for four nights, experiencing village life and helping with the renovation of a local school and the homes of elderly people. \u00b7 The home stay is part of a 16-day itinerary through Explore (0845 013 1537; explore.co.uk) that includes visits to Siem Reap and Phnom Penh, costing \u00a31,800. Accommodation, some meals and guides are included.Home stay Safaris, KenyaStay with a Masai or Samburu host family, where you will have the chance to visit rural markets, be shown around villages and share a traditional way of life. Accommodation may be simple - you specify whether you want a home with or without electricity - and some of the properties are very rural, giving a unique glimpse of African tribal life.\u00b7 More information at boma-africa.com.Casas Particular, CubaOne of the best ways to get to know Cuba is to stay in a Casa Particular in Havana - a government-regulated system of accommodation, which offers rooms in local people's homes. Some of the best are in Habana Vieja, the capital's old town.\u00b7 Rates depend on length of stay. See casaparticular.info. Prices start at about $20 a night.", "tags": ["India holidays", "Travel"], "title": "India: the inside story"},{"date": "2008-07-21T14:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The vote of confidence offered by the Indian government signals that George Bush might get regime change in yet another large Asian nation.It was president Bush who, in a typical snub in 2006 to the international system, said that America was prepared to accept India as a nuclear power despite the country exploding a bomb less than a decade ago. The deal was announced on the lawns of colonial Delhi and the series of political earthquakes it set off now threaten to topple the government when the parliament votes on July 22. This is a crucial moment for the world's largest democracy.  The Indian prime minister, in person an elderly, bearded, smiling, policy wonk with degrees from Oxford and Cambridge, has long sung the praises of the deal. He saw Mr Bush's three-day visit as comparable to Richard Nixon's rapprochement with China in 1973. Officials gleefully told this correspondent that the deal ushers India on to the world stage as a major power.But that was then. Two years followed where nothing happened. The left, whose support is crucial for the government's survival, vetoed the deal because it was offered by the toxic Texan and see in it an American plan to reduce India to a client state. By sticking to his guns, Singh has emerged as an unlikely political figure. Offered the job to run the country by the Gandhi family after they won the elections in 2004, he has displayed a strong impulse for change \u2013 aware that in his country the atmosphere of action can all too easily become a substitute for action.  Hence the prime minister's gamble to break with the communists. Rather than live any longer with the support of the approximately 60 leftwing MPs, he has decided to go to parliament. If that fails, he will be sent to the people.The Indian prime's message is that the world has changed, and India needs to change too. Delhi wants a seat on the security council, arguing its economic and military weight have been long unrecognised. How the deal's opponents square this demand with the fact at present the country is a nuclear rogue state remains unanswered.It seems obvious, to Mr Singh, too that no longer can India sit in splendid isolation, reinventing nuclear technology just to satisfy the deep-rooted but deluded nationalism of self-sufficiency.  The country has energy needs that in the future cannot be met solely by oil, gas and coal. Climate change too means these fossil fuels are dead. While we are all waiting for solar power to come good, nuclear \u2013 with all its problems \u2013 remains a good bet for an emerging dynamo like India. These big issues have become lost in the dust thrown up by the political fist fights of the last few days. The vote is on a knife edge \u2013 with half a dozen MPs from the extremes of India holding the balance of power. There have been accusations of MPs being offered bribes of \u00a33m to switch sides. As regional parties have held the balance of power for more than a decade, coalition politics is a fact of Indian life. Small players wield disproportionate power. The result is that the leader of India's dalit (\"untouchable\") caste, Mayawati, whose remarkable political rise from humble schoolteacher to leader of India's biggest state, Uttar Pradesh, could bring down the government \u2013 although she only has 17 votes in parliament.Behind these machinations and the nuclear deal itself, lie some big questions. For some, democracy itself has not proven up to the task of modernising India, which for all its economic growth still is home to 300m of the world's poor. Others say what is needed is a period of politics-free leadership, a kind of national unity government. Mr Singh recognises India's real problem: whether a class of people has arisen in society with the capacity and ruthlessness to force through necessary changes. His bet is that this time is approaching fast.  Mr Singh's government has triumphantly promoted India as the \"world's largest free-market democracy\" despite socialism being written into the country's constitution. The prime minister sees Indians as being creative, confident, inventive and argumentative people with a natural antipathy to ideology \u2013 preferring to be pragmatic in their decisions.  The nuclear deal, in his eyes, is about these emphasising these traits. It is a big-bang moment for India. Not because of the deal's technical content but because of what it says about the country.", "tags": ["India", "World news"], "title": "Randeep Ramesh: India's confidence vote on nuclear weapons will shape global geopolitics"},{"date": "2008-09-24T07:43:25Z", "country": "india", "content": "Research into production outsourcing by US and UK newspapers estimates that it is worth \u00a31.9bn to the Indian economy at present and could reach \u00a36.5bn by 2012. The study, by ValueNotes, claims that 26,000 people already work in the offshored publishing industry, which is expected to grow to 74,000 over the next two years. (Via Times of India)", "tags": ["Media", "Newspapers & magazines"], "title": "Roy Greenslade: Newspaper outsourcing worth \u00a36bn to India"},{"date": "2008-07-26T15:32:24Z", "country": "india", "content": "Two people were killed today and more than 50 injured in a series of explosions in the western Indian city of Ahmadabad, officials said, a day after a number of suspected bombs rocked the technology centre of Bangalore.\"At least 55 people have been hospitalised and two people have died so far,\" Shakeel Ahmad, a junior home minister for Gujarat state, of which Ahmadabad is the capital, told reporters, according to Reuters. \"We are on high alert.\"The four small explosions in several areas of Ahmadabad came a day after seven suspected bombs killed two people in Bangalore, in the south of the country.Yesterday's bombs exploded in quick succession across Bangalore, one of the world's biggest centres for software development and the capital of India's outsourcing industry, also injuring 15 people.India has suffered a wave of bombings in recent years, with targets ranging from mosques and temples to trains. Indian authorities have blamed Islamist militant groups in Pakistan and Bangladesh but it is unusual for anyone to claim responsibility.In May, eight bombs, many strapped to bicycles, exploded in a crowded shopping area in the western city of Jaipur, killing at least 63 people and injuring hundreds more.Police said that attack bore some hallmarks of the Bangladeshi militant group Harkat-ul-Jihad al Islami (HuJI).", "tags": ["India", "World news"], "title": "Blasts kill two in India"},{"date": "2008-09-29T05:56:41Z", "country": "india", "content": "Cond\u00e9 Nast is today unveiling the 15th global edition of its men's magazine GQ by launching in India.The October issue opens GQ's Indian account by featuring the country's leading lights of Bollywood, cricket and fashion - respectively Saif Ali Khan, Yuvraj Singh and Arjun Rampal. The monthly magazine will distribute 35,000 copies of its first issue in 40 Indian towns and cities priced at R100 (\u00a31.17).The launch issue also features an exclusive interview with steel tycoon Aditya Mittal.Che Kurrien will edit GQ India and an accompanying Indian-focused website, gqmagazine.in, will launch simultaneously today. Cond\u00e9 Nast's plans to launch an Indian edition of the upmarket men's magazine were made public in April, as the publisher announced its aim to follow the success of Vogue's launch in India.Cond\u00e9 Nast launched Vogue India in September 2007 after gaining permission from the Indian government to own 100% of its Indian subsidiary.A change of regulation in 2005 allowed non-news and current affairs publications to be wholly foreign-owned. Cond\u00e9 Nast India was one of the first companies established under the new rules.Other popular European magazines were previously launched under licence.Like Vogue India, Cond\u00e9 Nast will collaborate with a leading distribution company, the Living Media Group, to make the GQ available throughout India, where it will be on sale at 5,500 different outlets.GQ was first launched in America in 1957 as Gentleman's Quarterly, a fashion spin-off from Esquire.Cond\u00e9 Nast took over the magazine in 1983 and launched it in the UK in September 1988.\u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.\u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".", "tags": ["Consumer magazines", "Conde Nast", "Newspapers & magazines", "Media", "India", "World news", "Magazines"], "title": "GQ launches in India"},{"date": "2008-09-06T23:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The last time I stayed in a guesthouse in the UK, it was remarkable only for the fact that it was painted pink. The first guesthouse I visited in India was in the pink-painted city of Jaipur. Fortunately, the similarities ended there.Whereas Dreary-on-Sea featured a slightly camp host with all-too unique design skills and accommodation that exuded defeat, the Jaipur flagship of a new wave of Indian B&Bs offered a glimpse of a world no ordinary hotel chain could hope to provide.We are sitting on wicker chairs in a small, open-sided structure at the edge of an immaculate lawn as dusk falls. What appears to be a one-legged bird is hopping clumsily across the grass, pecking industriously at the grass. Away to the east, the elephants that plough up and down the shore of the lake that surrounds the Jai Mahal palace are nearing the end of their working day. As the light fails, the city - originally painted yellow, but now repainted a deep, almost orange shade of pink - glows in the twilight.The lawn is bounded on two sides by the balconied wings of an imposing, beautifully decorated house, the Madhu Pushp Bhawan. Overhead, a fan is throwing mosquitoes off course.We are in the state of Rajasthan, which the Rough Guide warns is notoriously unwelcoming to drinkers, yet the remains of a bottle of chilled Kingfisher beer stands on the table. Half of it is in my glass, the rest in that of Madhavendra Singh Chauhan, former chief conservator of wildlife in Rajasthan's forestry department. Mr Chauhan is a man of means, a Rajput; a member of the warrior class, he explains. The house has always been the family home - and it still is, even though Mr Chauhan's son, Jaideep, who recently left the employ of the luxury Oberoi hotel chain, has put his experience to work by opening it up as a guesthouse - with his father's blessing. The house is one of a growing chain run by the powerful Mahindra family, which also makes cars and owns a bank. It offers home stays which combine, according to the company, 'the comfort and distinction of a boutique hotel with the personal hospitality, informality and local knowledge enjoyed when staying with family friends'.The big selling point is the insight into Indian family life. Some people just visit the Chauhans for the afternoon, to take tea or dinner with the family, crowding into the kitchen to watch Mr Chauhan's wife, Bushbendra, and her daughter-in-law, Madhu, work their magic with spices and to pepper them with questions; others stay the night in one of the seven guest bedrooms.Inside, the wings head off from a vast main room. An open door reveals Jaideep's eight-year-old son sprawled on a bed watching television, while the head of a rather startled tiger pokes out from the wall above the family prayer room. 'Shot by my grandfather sometime before 1920,' Chauhan senior explains. The rooms are furnished exquisitely, finely carved furniture vying with delicate pieces of silver.Dinner is served upstairs. Jaideep sits across from me while Madhu hovers. She prefers to eat a little later, but sits anyway and takes a bowl of dal. Parathas arrive, warm and flaky. I watch carefully to see what order Jaideep takes the food in (a day earlier, I disgraced myself in a Delhi restaurant by dipping my bread into a bowl of tapioca which was meant to be the dessert element of a thali). After dinner, I retire to a room that is not extravagantly furnished but is on the right side of comfortable. I cannot find a top sheet, but the room is warm and I can't be bothered to disturb anyone to find me one. I lie down and start to fall asleep, only to be woken by an icy blast from the air-conditioning unit. I reset it, switch off the light - and 20 minutes later I'm blasted again. I give up, switch it off and opt for the ceiling fan, which does an admirable and remarkably silent job. It is my only real grumble. Oddly, in a hotel this would have driven me crazy. I would have been on the phone, demanding to move rooms. But here it would have seemed bad manners, like staying at a friend's house and asking to swap bedrooms because you didn't like the colour of the wallpaper. Mahindra has been signing up guesthouses across India; from havellis (large houses with an enclosed courtyard) in the north, to plantation mansions in the south. A week later, I sample what sort of experience they have to offer in the nation's capital. My taxi pulls up outside a rather unwelcoming gate in the lively (read noisy and polluted) Delhi suburb of South Extension II. A man in a vest shambles out. I'm about to tell the driver to forget it when we glean from Man A that we have found the back door.At the front, a slightly better attired gentleman eyes me cautiously and tells me he has no rooms. After some effort, we establish that I do indeed have a reservation and he shows me to an unprepossessing room with twin single beds. Someone has gone to fetch the owner. In the meantime, Man B stands in the doorway, trapping me in the room. I feel the urge to go home (not so far-fetched: I live about a 10-minute taxi ride away), but my escape is foiled by the owner, Sunil Saigal, who greets me with an outstretched hand. We sit down, I start to say hello and Man B interrupts to demand my passport. Then my name. Then my address in the UK. Then a signature.Mr Saigal shows me around and I note that everyone else has nicer rooms than I do. Downstairs, he explains that the guests come and go in the evenings but there is usually someone in the main living room. I seize the opportunity to escape for a few hours to take a stroll in the nearby Deer Park and the craft shops of Hauz Khas village, but it is apparently Lord Shiva's birthday and half of them are closed. Muttering darkly about this being just the sort of local knowledge the Mahindra hosts are supposed to have at their fingertips, I return to my room, eyeing the narrow single beds balefully and planning to hunker down until I can escape at dawn. I call my wife. 'Don't be stupid. Go out and see who is there. You'll enjoy it,' she tells me crossly.Reluctantly, I venture out. Mr Saigal is sitting in an armchair against the wall with a cigarette in one hand and a tumbler of whisky in the other. A bottle is fetched and a glass for me. More people appear, including a Norwegian woman dressed in a salwar kameez and Sunil's brother, Raman. Then Mrs Saigal - Rashmi - ambles in. At some point, a businessman arrives; he does something in television. More whisky appears. They are all lovely. I learn many things, then promptly forget them. If the idea is to give guests a flavour of the real India, it is working - the flavour is whisky.It is gone 1.30am when I grope blearily for the door handle and discover that I am physically incapable of forming letters on the page of my notebook. All I can remember is that at some point in the evening I agreed to buy a car. I have no idea what sort though, if pushed, I would guess that it was probably pink.Mahindra Homestays currently has more than 50 properties in Delhi, and in the states of Rajasthan, Kerala and Himachal Pradesh, with plans to double the number on offer by the end of the year. Rooms cost from \u00a322 to \u00a377 per night, including breakfast. Dinner can be arranged for an additional fee. \u00b7 For information and bookings, call 0203 140 8422 or visit mahindrahomestays.comSantiago, ChileA home stay, combined with a language course, can be a great way to get under the skin of a country. Language specialist Cactus has a variety of courses, both group and individual, from one week to three months. In Santiago, it offers two levels of home stay, normal and 'executive' (a double rather than a single room, private bathroom, etc), with vetted host families who live near the college where your lessons take place. Breakfast and dinner are included, giving you the chance to practise your new language skills over family meals.\u00b7 A two-week course costs from \u00a3599, excluding flights, through Cactus (0845 130 4775; cactuslanguage.com).Maori home stay, New ZealandIf you want a feel for New Zealand's indigenous peoples and their culture, you can't beat a Maori home stay. Accommodation includes farms - where the owners will take you walking and fishing; a home in the Kaituna Glades, where you can visit the Whanganui township and go canoeing; or a more urban stay in Napier, where the hosts will take you hunting and to local Maori art centres where you can see items such as totem poles.\u00b7 Rates depend on length of stay. For more information, ring 00 64 6 835 9933 or visit amhnz.com.Beijing, ChinaIf you're happy to teach your hosts a little English, you can reduce the cost of a stay in the Chinese capital - International Homestay China offers two rates, an all-inclusive home stay with a daily meal and orientation sessions (essential in China), or a teach-to-live home stay, where the costs are reduced in return for three to five hours of English tuition with your hosts. IHC also offers family home stays, with two or three bedrooms available.\u00b7 Rates depend on the length and type of stay. More information at 00 86 010 8765 8256; inthomestaychina.comKhmer home stay, CambodiaIf you only want to spend a short time in a home stay, there are itineraries that include four or five-night stays as part of a longer itinerary. Adventure operator Explore works with a community project in the village of Baray; visitors stay with local families for four nights, experiencing village life and helping with the renovation of a local school and the homes of elderly people. \u00b7 The home stay is part of a 16-day itinerary through Explore (0845 013 1537; explore.co.uk) that includes visits to Siem Reap and Phnom Penh, costing \u00a31,800. Accommodation, some meals and guides are included.Home stay Safaris, KenyaStay with a Masai or Samburu host family, where you will have the chance to visit rural markets, be shown around villages and share a traditional way of life. Accommodation may be simple - you specify whether you want a home with or without electricity - and some of the properties are very rural, giving a unique glimpse of African tribal life.\u00b7 More information at boma-africa.com.Casas Particular, CubaOne of the best ways to get to know Cuba is to stay in a Casa Particular in Havana - a government-regulated system of accommodation, which offers rooms in local people's homes. Some of the best are in Habana Vieja, the capital's old town.\u00b7 Rates depend on length of stay. See casaparticular.info. Prices start at about $20 a night.", "tags": ["India holidays", "Travel"], "title": "India: the inside story"},{"date": "2008-07-21T14:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The vote of confidence offered by the Indian government signals that George Bush might get regime change in yet another large Asian nation.It was president Bush who, in a typical snub in 2006 to the international system, said that America was prepared to accept India as a nuclear power despite the country exploding a bomb less than a decade ago. The deal was announced on the lawns of colonial Delhi and the series of political earthquakes it set off now threaten to topple the government when the parliament votes on July 22. This is a crucial moment for the world's largest democracy.  The Indian prime minister, in person an elderly, bearded, smiling, policy wonk with degrees from Oxford and Cambridge, has long sung the praises of the deal. He saw Mr Bush's three-day visit as comparable to Richard Nixon's rapprochement with China in 1973. Officials gleefully told this correspondent that the deal ushers India on to the world stage as a major power.But that was then. Two years followed where nothing happened. The left, whose support is crucial for the government's survival, vetoed the deal because it was offered by the toxic Texan and see in it an American plan to reduce India to a client state. By sticking to his guns, Singh has emerged as an unlikely political figure. Offered the job to run the country by the Gandhi family after they won the elections in 2004, he has displayed a strong impulse for change \u2013 aware that in his country the atmosphere of action can all too easily become a substitute for action.  Hence the prime minister's gamble to break with the communists. Rather than live any longer with the support of the approximately 60 leftwing MPs, he has decided to go to parliament. If that fails, he will be sent to the people.The Indian prime's message is that the world has changed, and India needs to change too. Delhi wants a seat on the security council, arguing its economic and military weight have been long unrecognised. How the deal's opponents square this demand with the fact at present the country is a nuclear rogue state remains unanswered.It seems obvious, to Mr Singh, too that no longer can India sit in splendid isolation, reinventing nuclear technology just to satisfy the deep-rooted but deluded nationalism of self-sufficiency.  The country has energy needs that in the future cannot be met solely by oil, gas and coal. Climate change too means these fossil fuels are dead. While we are all waiting for solar power to come good, nuclear \u2013 with all its problems \u2013 remains a good bet for an emerging dynamo like India. These big issues have become lost in the dust thrown up by the political fist fights of the last few days. The vote is on a knife edge \u2013 with half a dozen MPs from the extremes of India holding the balance of power. There have been accusations of MPs being offered bribes of \u00a33m to switch sides. As regional parties have held the balance of power for more than a decade, coalition politics is a fact of Indian life. Small players wield disproportionate power. The result is that the leader of India's dalit (\"untouchable\") caste, Mayawati, whose remarkable political rise from humble schoolteacher to leader of India's biggest state, Uttar Pradesh, could bring down the government \u2013 although she only has 17 votes in parliament.Behind these machinations and the nuclear deal itself, lie some big questions. For some, democracy itself has not proven up to the task of modernising India, which for all its economic growth still is home to 300m of the world's poor. Others say what is needed is a period of politics-free leadership, a kind of national unity government. Mr Singh recognises India's real problem: whether a class of people has arisen in society with the capacity and ruthlessness to force through necessary changes. His bet is that this time is approaching fast.  Mr Singh's government has triumphantly promoted India as the \"world's largest free-market democracy\" despite socialism being written into the country's constitution. The prime minister sees Indians as being creative, confident, inventive and argumentative people with a natural antipathy to ideology \u2013 preferring to be pragmatic in their decisions.  The nuclear deal, in his eyes, is about these emphasising these traits. It is a big-bang moment for India. Not because of the deal's technical content but because of what it says about the country.", "tags": ["India", "World news"], "title": "Randeep Ramesh: India's confidence vote on nuclear weapons will shape global geopolitics"},{"date": "2008-09-24T07:43:25Z", "country": "india", "content": "Research into production outsourcing by US and UK newspapers estimates that it is worth \u00a31.9bn to the Indian economy at present and could reach \u00a36.5bn by 2012. The study, by ValueNotes, claims that 26,000 people already work in the offshored publishing industry, which is expected to grow to 74,000 over the next two years. (Via Times of India)", "tags": ["Media", "Newspapers & magazines"], "title": "Roy Greenslade: Newspaper outsourcing worth \u00a36bn to India"},{"date": "2008-07-26T15:32:24Z", "country": "india", "content": "Two people were killed today and more than 50 injured in a series of explosions in the western Indian city of Ahmadabad, officials said, a day after a number of suspected bombs rocked the technology centre of Bangalore.\"At least 55 people have been hospitalised and two people have died so far,\" Shakeel Ahmad, a junior home minister for Gujarat state, of which Ahmadabad is the capital, told reporters, according to Reuters. \"We are on high alert.\"The four small explosions in several areas of Ahmadabad came a day after seven suspected bombs killed two people in Bangalore, in the south of the country.Yesterday's bombs exploded in quick succession across Bangalore, one of the world's biggest centres for software development and the capital of India's outsourcing industry, also injuring 15 people.India has suffered a wave of bombings in recent years, with targets ranging from mosques and temples to trains. Indian authorities have blamed Islamist militant groups in Pakistan and Bangladesh but it is unusual for anyone to claim responsibility.In May, eight bombs, many strapped to bicycles, exploded in a crowded shopping area in the western city of Jaipur, killing at least 63 people and injuring hundreds more.Police said that attack bore some hallmarks of the Bangladeshi militant group Harkat-ul-Jihad al Islami (HuJI).", "tags": ["India", "World news"], "title": "Blasts kill two in India"},{"date": "2008-07-09T23:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "What does Nirpal Dhaliwal's \"the flirtation and sensuality of Bollywood isn't fantasy - it's how they [Indians] actually live\" actually mean (The sound of my ticking, July 8)? Does he mean the sad wives of the unemployed alcoholics of below-poverty-line India, or is he talking about other people?He says: \"The stricter sexual mores of society mean that when people get together here they are not wracked with doubts and thoughts of greener grass.\" Did he speak to any women before writing his piece? It's all very well to paint a rosy picture of the subcontinent - the saris are very colourful - but the shocking levels of violence against women and female foeticide are not. For all the singing and dancing of Bollywood, I've yet to see a film about dowry harassment leading to murder. Shah Rukh Khan is unlikely to make a film about the use of rape as an instrument of social control.\"In India ... there's no pressure on men to prove themselves with bedpost notches,\" says Dhaliwal. So who uses all the trafficked prostitute-slaves, some as young as 10, down in the Kamathipura red light district of Bombay? The people of India deserve more honest journalism. This is no Shangri-La. Cathal RabbitteMumbai, India", "tags": ["Culture", "Gender", "India", "World news", "Film"], "title": "Letter: India is no Shangri-La"},{"date": "2008-10-07T10:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The jeep slowly ambled its way through the busy bazaar, people running out of the way to avoid its wrath. A policeman jumps out, grabs some clothes displayed outside a shop, chucks them in the back of the jeep, and angrily reprimands the shopkeeper. The vehicle moves on, with a loudspeaker remonstrating other shopkeepers. I explain to my fellow backpackers that the police constantly ask shopkeepers not to put their wares on the street, so that any suspicious packages can be more easily identified. If they don't comply the police confiscate their goods as punishment.You could call this part of the Indian police force's anti-terrorism strategy. Paharganj market, where many foreign backpackers stay because of cheap and clean rooms, is opposite the main New Delhi railway station. A few weeks ago a series of small bombs went off less than a mile away at Connaught Place. India is on edge, with some commentators worried that more communal violence between Hindus and Muslims might break out here as tensions rise. There is much talk about establishing a US-style department of homeland security and there has been media frustration over the lack of any serious headway by the police and intelligence services on terrorism generally.In some ways, the always troubled relationship between India's majority Hindu (81%) and second largest minority (11%) Muslim population has become better. For a start there is no longer a continual standoff with Pakistan \u2013 always used by Hindu nationalists to raise doubts about the patriotism of Indian Muslims. Combined with this, Indian Muslims are firmly established in popular culture (through Bollywood, cricket, television soaps) to no longer warrant widespread suspicion. Third, Indians themselves have been very proactive in building community links and trying to reduce tensions every time a religious riot breaks out or a bomb goes off. Last year after the multiple terrorist attacks on Mumbai's local trains, many popular Muslims across the city made loud appeals for their co-religionists to donate blood at hospitals and contribute towards rescue activities. These may be symbolic gestures but they matter and they have an impact.But in many ways India's reputation as a relatively successful multicultural state is being undermined. Recent terrorist attacks have mostly been attributed to Indian-born Muslims, a change from the days when fingers immediately pointed towards Pakistan every time something went off. Pakistan has its own problems, as the Marriott Hotel bomb in Islamabad attested, thanks to the very groups its intelligence agency fostered as a way to undermine India.And then there are the Hindu fundamentalists. There has been growing anger about Hindu fundamentalists attacking Christians in the state of Orissa and more recently Karnataka because the former allege that Christian missionary groups are forcibly converting low caste Hindus to Christianity. There is no evidence of course, except some patchy stories that missionary groups offer health facilities and other benefits to members of congregations. For hardline Hindu groups such as the VHP (Vishwa Hindu Parishad) and its even more fanatical subsidiary Bajrang Dal \u2013 this is a valid enough excuse to attack Christians, destroy churches and intimidate politicians. These Hindu nationalist groups are also hated by Sikhs, who accuse them of trying to control Sikh politicians and their affairs, and by Muslims, who saw them play a major part during the anti-Muslim riots in Gujarat in 2002.But the matter is getting out of hand. An increasing number of police investigations have recently found Bajrang Dal activists with weapons and bombs, and even fake Muslim gear.  Many point out the obvious \u2013 that Bajrang Dal terrorists are trying to implicate Indian Muslims when attacking Muslim targets. And yet the Indian government is strangely reticent in targeting these Hindu fanatics with the same gusto it parades suspected Muslim terrorists.There's also no doubt that hardline Muslim groups want to use terrorism as a way of separating Hindus and Muslims, and there seems to be no real strategy or intelligence in dealing with the problem.Thus it's difficult to predict which way the wind will blow. In 2002, after the anti-Muslim pogroms in Gujarat, Hindu fanatics were openly claiming that the state was the start of a nationwide campaign. And yet their attempts to fan similar violence elsewhere failed and the Hindu nationalist BJP government lost the subsequent election because it didn't pay enough attention to poverty. Whatever the experts say, this country is too large and too complicated to predict. But unless something is done to quell rising Hindu fundamentalism, which also fans Muslim, Christian and Sikh grievances, then the Bajrang Dal could end up as India's Taliban. There's an old saying here \u2013 don't ever feed milk to a snake, sooner or later it will bite you.", "tags": ["India", "Religion", "World news", "Hinduism"], "title": "Sunny Hundal: The Indian government is reluctant to target Hindu nationalists responsible for recent violence"},{"date": "2008-10-07T10:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The jeep slowly ambled its way through the busy bazaar, people running out of the way to avoid its wrath. A policeman jumps out, grabs some clothes displayed outside a shop, chucks them in the back of the jeep, and angrily reprimands the shopkeeper. The vehicle moves on, with a loudspeaker remonstrating other shopkeepers. I explain to my fellow backpackers that the police constantly ask shopkeepers not to put their wares on the street, so that any suspicious packages can be more easily identified. If they don't comply the police confiscate their goods as punishment.You could call this part of the Indian police force's anti-terrorism strategy. Paharganj market, where many foreign backpackers stay because of cheap and clean rooms, is opposite the main New Delhi railway station. A few weeks ago a series of small bombs went off less than a mile away at Connaught Place. India is on edge, with some commentators worried that more communal violence between Hindus and Muslims might break out here as tensions rise. There is much talk about establishing a US-style department of homeland security and there has been media frustration over the lack of any serious headway by the police and intelligence services on terrorism generally.In some ways, the always troubled relationship between India's majority Hindu (81%) and second largest minority (11%) Muslim population has become better. For a start there is no longer a continual standoff with Pakistan \u2013 always used by Hindu nationalists to raise doubts about the patriotism of Indian Muslims. Combined with this, Indian Muslims are firmly established in popular culture (through Bollywood, cricket, television soaps) to no longer warrant widespread suspicion. Third, Indians themselves have been very proactive in building community links and trying to reduce tensions every time a religious riot breaks out or a bomb goes off. Last year after the multiple terrorist attacks on Mumbai's local trains, many popular Muslims across the city made loud appeals for their co-religionists to donate blood at hospitals and contribute towards rescue activities. These may be symbolic gestures but they matter and they have an impact.But in many ways India's reputation as a relatively successful multicultural state is being undermined. Recent terrorist attacks have mostly been attributed to Indian-born Muslims, a change from the days when fingers immediately pointed towards Pakistan every time something went off. Pakistan has its own problems, as the Marriott Hotel bomb in Islamabad attested, thanks to the very groups its intelligence agency fostered as a way to undermine India.And then there are the Hindu fundamentalists. There has been growing anger about Hindu fundamentalists attacking Christians in the state of Orissa and more recently Karnataka because the former allege that Christian missionary groups are forcibly converting low caste Hindus to Christianity. There is no evidence of course, except some patchy stories that missionary groups offer health facilities and other benefits to members of congregations. For hardline Hindu groups such as the VHP (Vishwa Hindu Parishad) and its even more fanatical subsidiary Bajrang Dal \u2013 this is a valid enough excuse to attack Christians, destroy churches and intimidate politicians. These Hindu nationalist groups are also hated by Sikhs, who accuse them of trying to control Sikh politicians and their affairs, and by Muslims, who saw them play a major part during the anti-Muslim riots in Gujarat in 2002.But the matter is getting out of hand. An increasing number of police investigations have recently found Bajrang Dal activists with weapons and bombs, and even fake Muslim gear.  Many point out the obvious \u2013 that Bajrang Dal terrorists are trying to implicate Indian Muslims when attacking Muslim targets. And yet the Indian government is strangely reticent in targeting these Hindu fanatics with the same gusto it parades suspected Muslim terrorists.There's also no doubt that hardline Muslim groups want to use terrorism as a way of separating Hindus and Muslims, and there seems to be no real strategy or intelligence in dealing with the problem.Thus it's difficult to predict which way the wind will blow. In 2002, after the anti-Muslim pogroms in Gujarat, Hindu fanatics were openly claiming that the state was the start of a nationwide campaign. And yet their attempts to fan similar violence elsewhere failed and the Hindu nationalist BJP government lost the subsequent election because it didn't pay enough attention to poverty. Whatever the experts say, this country is too large and too complicated to predict. But unless something is done to quell rising Hindu fundamentalism, which also fans Muslim, Christian and Sikh grievances, then the Bajrang Dal could end up as India's Taliban. There's an old saying here \u2013 don't ever feed milk to a snake, sooner or later it will bite you.", "tags": ["India", "Religion", "World news", "Hinduism"], "title": "Sunny Hundal: The Indian government is reluctant to target Hindu nationalists responsible for recent violence"},{"date": "2008-12-15T09:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "For some old foreign policy hands in New Delhi, steeped in the politics of the cold war, there was an easy formula for sizing up the policies of US presidents. Republican, good for India. Democrat, bad.But that no longer holds after the attacks in Mumbai that Indians see as their own 9/11. Whether it's George Bush or Barack Obama in the White House, the attacks look set to further cement the alliance between New Delhi and Washington and deepen counter-terrorism and security cooperation between them.The future promise of that alliance is one of the most powerful tools of persuasion available to Washington to prevent India from retaliating and putting the region at risk of a full-scale war between two nuclear-armed neighbours.Bush saw India as an emerging world power and allowed it to buy US nuclear energy technology. The basis for the next stage of the relationship is evidence of a Pakistani connection to the gunmen who carried out the Mumbai attacks. New Delhi and Washington are assuming that it was carried out by Lashkar-e-Taiba, a militant group based near Lahore in Pakistan. India has complained for years about the involvement of Lashkar-e-Taiba in attacks on Indian-held Kashmir from bases in the Pakistani-ruled sector. It has also accused Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence agency of training and supporting the group.Now \u2013 because of concerns about a wider conflict \u2013 there are signs Washington is listening and has put Pakistan on notice it must act against the group. The rationale is that the best way of preventing a wider war would be to show India that the US can get Pakistan to make an effective crackdown on militants. In addition, America is concerned that, if Pakistan perceives there to be a real threat of war with India, it will move its troops away from the Afghan frontier, giving more room for the militants to operate.Condoleezza Rice, after her visit to the region last week, made it clear that Washington expected the government of Asif Ali Zardari to take swift action against Lashkar-e-Taiba and other Islamist groups. She told CNN: \"We are awaiting action, and that action needs to take place soon.\" Such statements are intended to ease the domestic political pressure on the Indian government for harsh retaliation against Pakistan, possibly bombing the training camps of Lashkar-e-Taiba.Obama has gone a step further than Rice, endorsing India's right to catch the perpetrators of the attack and bring them to justice. \"If a country is attacked, it has the right to defend itself,\" Obama told NBC television. But he stopped short of backing India's right to \"hot pursuit\" of militants into Pakistani territory.The tough talk from Democrat and Republican alike comes amid widespread recognition of the failure of the last seven years of US policy towards Pakistan. America has channelled some $10bn in military aid to Pakistan since 2001. The funds were to be used to hunt down militant groups and prevent the Taliban's re-emergence in Afghanistan. Instead the Bush administration has been forced to acknowledge that its investment in Pakistan has been largely wasted. It failed to stop the war from spilling over from Afghanistan into Pakistan. Worse, the borderlands became a staging post for the Taliban and Islamist militants.Bush administration officials have tacitly acknowledged the failure. Earlier this year US military forces began stepping up cross-border operations from Afghanistan into Pakistan with an aim of pacifying the tribal areas that provide a refuge for Taliban and Islamist fighters. Until the attacks, that failure of Bush policy was the main issue that concerned Obama. India, and the prospect of war with Pakistan, barely figured on his map. He was focused instead on how to bring quiet to Afghanistan. He said a year ago that he would back US military strikes against Pakistan-based militants if Islamabad failed to act. Now Obama has signalled that he intends to bring India into the mix. \"We can't continue to look at Afghanistan in isolation. We have to see it as part of a regional problem that includes Pakistan, includes India, includes Kashmir, includes Iran,\" he said in the interview with NBC.For some observers, the tilt towards India has been embodied in Obama's selection of Hillary Clinton as secretary of state. Bill Clinton elevated the US relationship with India during his presidency and persisted after India tested a nuclear device in 1998. Hillary carried on the tradition as first lady and senator, visiting India and cultivating ties with Indian immigrants in America. The community responded. In 2007 she raised $2m in one night at a fundraiser for Indians living in New York.During the primaries, the Obama camp attacked Clinton for her closeness to the Indian community, calling her the Democratic senator from Punjab. Obama is not making those jokes now.", "tags": ["India", "US Congress"], "title": "US worldview embraces India"},{"date": "2008-10-07T10:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The jeep slowly ambled its way through the busy bazaar, people running out of the way to avoid its wrath. A policeman jumps out, grabs some clothes displayed outside a shop, chucks them in the back of the jeep, and angrily reprimands the shopkeeper. The vehicle moves on, with a loudspeaker remonstrating other shopkeepers. I explain to my fellow backpackers that the police constantly ask shopkeepers not to put their wares on the street, so that any suspicious packages can be more easily identified. If they don't comply the police confiscate their goods as punishment.You could call this part of the Indian police force's anti-terrorism strategy. Paharganj market, where many foreign backpackers stay because of cheap and clean rooms, is opposite the main New Delhi railway station. A few weeks ago a series of small bombs went off less than a mile away at Connaught Place. India is on edge, with some commentators worried that more communal violence between Hindus and Muslims might break out here as tensions rise. There is much talk about establishing a US-style department of homeland security and there has been media frustration over the lack of any serious headway by the police and intelligence services on terrorism generally.In some ways, the always troubled relationship between India's majority Hindu (81%) and second largest minority (11%) Muslim population has become better. For a start there is no longer a continual standoff with Pakistan \u2013 always used by Hindu nationalists to raise doubts about the patriotism of Indian Muslims. Combined with this, Indian Muslims are firmly established in popular culture (through Bollywood, cricket, television soaps) to no longer warrant widespread suspicion. Third, Indians themselves have been very proactive in building community links and trying to reduce tensions every time a religious riot breaks out or a bomb goes off. Last year after the multiple terrorist attacks on Mumbai's local trains, many popular Muslims across the city made loud appeals for their co-religionists to donate blood at hospitals and contribute towards rescue activities. These may be symbolic gestures but they matter and they have an impact.But in many ways India's reputation as a relatively successful multicultural state is being undermined. Recent terrorist attacks have mostly been attributed to Indian-born Muslims, a change from the days when fingers immediately pointed towards Pakistan every time something went off. Pakistan has its own problems, as the Marriott Hotel bomb in Islamabad attested, thanks to the very groups its intelligence agency fostered as a way to undermine India.And then there are the Hindu fundamentalists. There has been growing anger about Hindu fundamentalists attacking Christians in the state of Orissa and more recently Karnataka because the former allege that Christian missionary groups are forcibly converting low caste Hindus to Christianity. There is no evidence of course, except some patchy stories that missionary groups offer health facilities and other benefits to members of congregations. For hardline Hindu groups such as the VHP (Vishwa Hindu Parishad) and its even more fanatical subsidiary Bajrang Dal \u2013 this is a valid enough excuse to attack Christians, destroy churches and intimidate politicians. These Hindu nationalist groups are also hated by Sikhs, who accuse them of trying to control Sikh politicians and their affairs, and by Muslims, who saw them play a major part during the anti-Muslim riots in Gujarat in 2002.But the matter is getting out of hand. An increasing number of police investigations have recently found Bajrang Dal activists with weapons and bombs, and even fake Muslim gear.  Many point out the obvious \u2013 that Bajrang Dal terrorists are trying to implicate Indian Muslims when attacking Muslim targets. And yet the Indian government is strangely reticent in targeting these Hindu fanatics with the same gusto it parades suspected Muslim terrorists.There's also no doubt that hardline Muslim groups want to use terrorism as a way of separating Hindus and Muslims, and there seems to be no real strategy or intelligence in dealing with the problem.Thus it's difficult to predict which way the wind will blow. In 2002, after the anti-Muslim pogroms in Gujarat, Hindu fanatics were openly claiming that the state was the start of a nationwide campaign. And yet their attempts to fan similar violence elsewhere failed and the Hindu nationalist BJP government lost the subsequent election because it didn't pay enough attention to poverty. Whatever the experts say, this country is too large and too complicated to predict. But unless something is done to quell rising Hindu fundamentalism, which also fans Muslim, Christian and Sikh grievances, then the Bajrang Dal could end up as India's Taliban. There's an old saying here \u2013 don't ever feed milk to a snake, sooner or later it will bite you.", "tags": ["India", "Religion", "World news", "Hinduism"], "title": "Sunny Hundal: The Indian government is reluctant to target Hindu nationalists responsible for recent violence"},{"date": "2008-12-15T09:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "For some old foreign policy hands in New Delhi, steeped in the politics of the cold war, there was an easy formula for sizing up the policies of US presidents. Republican, good for India. Democrat, bad.But that no longer holds after the attacks in Mumbai that Indians see as their own 9/11. Whether it's George Bush or Barack Obama in the White House, the attacks look set to further cement the alliance between New Delhi and Washington and deepen counter-terrorism and security cooperation between them.The future promise of that alliance is one of the most powerful tools of persuasion available to Washington to prevent India from retaliating and putting the region at risk of a full-scale war between two nuclear-armed neighbours.Bush saw India as an emerging world power and allowed it to buy US nuclear energy technology. The basis for the next stage of the relationship is evidence of a Pakistani connection to the gunmen who carried out the Mumbai attacks. New Delhi and Washington are assuming that it was carried out by Lashkar-e-Taiba, a militant group based near Lahore in Pakistan. India has complained for years about the involvement of Lashkar-e-Taiba in attacks on Indian-held Kashmir from bases in the Pakistani-ruled sector. It has also accused Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence agency of training and supporting the group.Now \u2013 because of concerns about a wider conflict \u2013 there are signs Washington is listening and has put Pakistan on notice it must act against the group. The rationale is that the best way of preventing a wider war would be to show India that the US can get Pakistan to make an effective crackdown on militants. In addition, America is concerned that, if Pakistan perceives there to be a real threat of war with India, it will move its troops away from the Afghan frontier, giving more room for the militants to operate.Condoleezza Rice, after her visit to the region last week, made it clear that Washington expected the government of Asif Ali Zardari to take swift action against Lashkar-e-Taiba and other Islamist groups. She told CNN: \"We are awaiting action, and that action needs to take place soon.\" Such statements are intended to ease the domestic political pressure on the Indian government for harsh retaliation against Pakistan, possibly bombing the training camps of Lashkar-e-Taiba.Obama has gone a step further than Rice, endorsing India's right to catch the perpetrators of the attack and bring them to justice. \"If a country is attacked, it has the right to defend itself,\" Obama told NBC television. But he stopped short of backing India's right to \"hot pursuit\" of militants into Pakistani territory.The tough talk from Democrat and Republican alike comes amid widespread recognition of the failure of the last seven years of US policy towards Pakistan. America has channelled some $10bn in military aid to Pakistan since 2001. The funds were to be used to hunt down militant groups and prevent the Taliban's re-emergence in Afghanistan. Instead the Bush administration has been forced to acknowledge that its investment in Pakistan has been largely wasted. It failed to stop the war from spilling over from Afghanistan into Pakistan. Worse, the borderlands became a staging post for the Taliban and Islamist militants.Bush administration officials have tacitly acknowledged the failure. Earlier this year US military forces began stepping up cross-border operations from Afghanistan into Pakistan with an aim of pacifying the tribal areas that provide a refuge for Taliban and Islamist fighters. Until the attacks, that failure of Bush policy was the main issue that concerned Obama. India, and the prospect of war with Pakistan, barely figured on his map. He was focused instead on how to bring quiet to Afghanistan. He said a year ago that he would back US military strikes against Pakistan-based militants if Islamabad failed to act. Now Obama has signalled that he intends to bring India into the mix. \"We can't continue to look at Afghanistan in isolation. We have to see it as part of a regional problem that includes Pakistan, includes India, includes Kashmir, includes Iran,\" he said in the interview with NBC.For some observers, the tilt towards India has been embodied in Obama's selection of Hillary Clinton as secretary of state. Bill Clinton elevated the US relationship with India during his presidency and persisted after India tested a nuclear device in 1998. Hillary carried on the tradition as first lady and senator, visiting India and cultivating ties with Indian immigrants in America. The community responded. In 2007 she raised $2m in one night at a fundraiser for Indians living in New York.During the primaries, the Obama camp attacked Clinton for her closeness to the Indian community, calling her the Democratic senator from Punjab. Obama is not making those jokes now.", "tags": ["India", "US Congress"], "title": "US worldview embraces India"},{"date": "2008-12-04T09:00:02Z", "country": "india", "content": "If you don't like it when Jews complain about being singled out, the slaughter in Mumbai should give you food for thought. In an attack that was in all other respects indiscriminate, two of the terrorists were specifically sent to the one building in the city where there were sure to be Jews. If terrorists intended to deliver a message that Jews can be attacked with impunity even in places where barely any of them live, it was received loud and clear.I visited the Chabad House in Dharamsala over the summer and remember thinking how easy it would be for terrorists to wreak havoc there. Chabad-Lubavitch is one of the largest Hasidic Jewish sects. Where Ultra-Orthodox Judaism is known for its rejection of the outside world, Chabad bucks the trend. On the instructions of its late Rebbe, Menachem Mendel Schneerson, Chabad emissaries were dispatched to every corner of the globe, with instructions to provide religious life and emotional support to the local Jewish community. Today, there are Chabad houses all over the world, from New York to Kinshasa, from Mumbai to Bishkek, tending to the needs of tens or hundreds of people. I have never particularly appreciated the proselytising aspect of the Chabad mission. It still irritates me when I am accosted in a Tel Aviv street by a chabadnik asking me to lay tefillin. But this is outreach exclusively to the secular Jewish world. Unlike evangelical Christians, Chabad are not interesting in converting those around them, and make great efforts to be a quiet, harmless part of their local community. In this sense, the Mumbai attacks mark the end of their innocence.In the midst of the maudlin clamour for explanation, one thing is clear: the terrorists who targeted Mumbai wanted to kill Jews. In succeeding in this goal, they instantly gave the lie to the disingenuous suggestion that Israel is the most dangerous place on earth for a Jew to live. And in choosing their target, they also gave the lie to the idea that this was some kind of proportionate response to the oppression of the Palestinians. If that was their agenda, they could have targeted the Israeli consulate. Instead, they attacked a Jewish communal centre, and in the process killed a Hasid from the Satmar movement, known for its virulent anti-Zionism. If you think this to be ironic, by the way, this means you fail to see the wood from the trees.We are frequently told that Islamist terrorists \u2013 whether from South Yorkshire or South Asia \u2013 are merely expressing their anger at injustices perpetrated against Muslims in Afghanistan, Iraq, Kashmir and Palestine. Why do these injustices lead them to violence where others don't? What about the plight of Muslims in Iran, Syria and China? Why does this not make them want to launch terrorist attacks? When will people begin to recognise a problem for what it is? India has now become the new frontline, absorbing provocation after provocation, while showing admirable restraint in response (if only Israel would occasionally follow its lead). In the summer, I wrote unequivocally in favour of Kashmiri self-determination, emphasising the human rights abuses Indian forces have committed there. In this sense, the situation is just like Palestine: it should be perfectly easy to argue for self-determination for Kashmiris and Palestinians without descending into apologetics when lunatics hovering at the fringes of their independence movements decide to mow down civilians. I always used to respond with cynicism when told that my synagogue in London is tightening its security procedures. Now I know they are right to be worried. For the Jewish world, Mumbai is proving to be a 9/11 moment. Suddenly, every Chabad House in the world has become a potential target. This, unfortunately, is the disproportionate power of terrorism in the internet age. Remarkably, though, Mumbai also offers inspiration. Rabbi Gavriel Holtzberg and his wife Rivka were killed in the attack but according to reports, a replacement is already preparing to go to Mumbai to run the Chabad centre. There is even the suggestion that Rivka's parents might take up the position. To an unreconstructed secularist, this is deeply humbling; the perfect embodiment of Barack Obama's famous election-night words: \"To those who would tear this world down, we will defeat you.\" May we all be lucky enough to have Chabad's resolve. ", "tags": ["Mumbai terror attacks", "Judaism", "World news", "Religion"], "title": "Alex Stein: Inspiration from India"},{"date": "2008-10-07T10:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The jeep slowly ambled its way through the busy bazaar, people running out of the way to avoid its wrath. A policeman jumps out, grabs some clothes displayed outside a shop, chucks them in the back of the jeep, and angrily reprimands the shopkeeper. The vehicle moves on, with a loudspeaker remonstrating other shopkeepers. I explain to my fellow backpackers that the police constantly ask shopkeepers not to put their wares on the street, so that any suspicious packages can be more easily identified. If they don't comply the police confiscate their goods as punishment.You could call this part of the Indian police force's anti-terrorism strategy. Paharganj market, where many foreign backpackers stay because of cheap and clean rooms, is opposite the main New Delhi railway station. A few weeks ago a series of small bombs went off less than a mile away at Connaught Place. India is on edge, with some commentators worried that more communal violence between Hindus and Muslims might break out here as tensions rise. There is much talk about establishing a US-style department of homeland security and there has been media frustration over the lack of any serious headway by the police and intelligence services on terrorism generally.In some ways, the always troubled relationship between India's majority Hindu (81%) and second largest minority (11%) Muslim population has become better. For a start there is no longer a continual standoff with Pakistan \u2013 always used by Hindu nationalists to raise doubts about the patriotism of Indian Muslims. Combined with this, Indian Muslims are firmly established in popular culture (through Bollywood, cricket, television soaps) to no longer warrant widespread suspicion. Third, Indians themselves have been very proactive in building community links and trying to reduce tensions every time a religious riot breaks out or a bomb goes off. Last year after the multiple terrorist attacks on Mumbai's local trains, many popular Muslims across the city made loud appeals for their co-religionists to donate blood at hospitals and contribute towards rescue activities. These may be symbolic gestures but they matter and they have an impact.But in many ways India's reputation as a relatively successful multicultural state is being undermined. Recent terrorist attacks have mostly been attributed to Indian-born Muslims, a change from the days when fingers immediately pointed towards Pakistan every time something went off. Pakistan has its own problems, as the Marriott Hotel bomb in Islamabad attested, thanks to the very groups its intelligence agency fostered as a way to undermine India.And then there are the Hindu fundamentalists. There has been growing anger about Hindu fundamentalists attacking Christians in the state of Orissa and more recently Karnataka because the former allege that Christian missionary groups are forcibly converting low caste Hindus to Christianity. There is no evidence of course, except some patchy stories that missionary groups offer health facilities and other benefits to members of congregations. For hardline Hindu groups such as the VHP (Vishwa Hindu Parishad) and its even more fanatical subsidiary Bajrang Dal \u2013 this is a valid enough excuse to attack Christians, destroy churches and intimidate politicians. These Hindu nationalist groups are also hated by Sikhs, who accuse them of trying to control Sikh politicians and their affairs, and by Muslims, who saw them play a major part during the anti-Muslim riots in Gujarat in 2002.But the matter is getting out of hand. An increasing number of police investigations have recently found Bajrang Dal activists with weapons and bombs, and even fake Muslim gear.  Many point out the obvious \u2013 that Bajrang Dal terrorists are trying to implicate Indian Muslims when attacking Muslim targets. And yet the Indian government is strangely reticent in targeting these Hindu fanatics with the same gusto it parades suspected Muslim terrorists.There's also no doubt that hardline Muslim groups want to use terrorism as a way of separating Hindus and Muslims, and there seems to be no real strategy or intelligence in dealing with the problem.Thus it's difficult to predict which way the wind will blow. In 2002, after the anti-Muslim pogroms in Gujarat, Hindu fanatics were openly claiming that the state was the start of a nationwide campaign. And yet their attempts to fan similar violence elsewhere failed and the Hindu nationalist BJP government lost the subsequent election because it didn't pay enough attention to poverty. Whatever the experts say, this country is too large and too complicated to predict. But unless something is done to quell rising Hindu fundamentalism, which also fans Muslim, Christian and Sikh grievances, then the Bajrang Dal could end up as India's Taliban. There's an old saying here \u2013 don't ever feed milk to a snake, sooner or later it will bite you.", "tags": ["India", "Religion", "World news", "Hinduism"], "title": "Sunny Hundal: The Indian government is reluctant to target Hindu nationalists responsible for recent violence"},{"date": "2008-12-15T09:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "For some old foreign policy hands in New Delhi, steeped in the politics of the cold war, there was an easy formula for sizing up the policies of US presidents. Republican, good for India. Democrat, bad.But that no longer holds after the attacks in Mumbai that Indians see as their own 9/11. Whether it's George Bush or Barack Obama in the White House, the attacks look set to further cement the alliance between New Delhi and Washington and deepen counter-terrorism and security cooperation between them.The future promise of that alliance is one of the most powerful tools of persuasion available to Washington to prevent India from retaliating and putting the region at risk of a full-scale war between two nuclear-armed neighbours.Bush saw India as an emerging world power and allowed it to buy US nuclear energy technology. The basis for the next stage of the relationship is evidence of a Pakistani connection to the gunmen who carried out the Mumbai attacks. New Delhi and Washington are assuming that it was carried out by Lashkar-e-Taiba, a militant group based near Lahore in Pakistan. India has complained for years about the involvement of Lashkar-e-Taiba in attacks on Indian-held Kashmir from bases in the Pakistani-ruled sector. It has also accused Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence agency of training and supporting the group.Now \u2013 because of concerns about a wider conflict \u2013 there are signs Washington is listening and has put Pakistan on notice it must act against the group. The rationale is that the best way of preventing a wider war would be to show India that the US can get Pakistan to make an effective crackdown on militants. In addition, America is concerned that, if Pakistan perceives there to be a real threat of war with India, it will move its troops away from the Afghan frontier, giving more room for the militants to operate.Condoleezza Rice, after her visit to the region last week, made it clear that Washington expected the government of Asif Ali Zardari to take swift action against Lashkar-e-Taiba and other Islamist groups. She told CNN: \"We are awaiting action, and that action needs to take place soon.\" Such statements are intended to ease the domestic political pressure on the Indian government for harsh retaliation against Pakistan, possibly bombing the training camps of Lashkar-e-Taiba.Obama has gone a step further than Rice, endorsing India's right to catch the perpetrators of the attack and bring them to justice. \"If a country is attacked, it has the right to defend itself,\" Obama told NBC television. But he stopped short of backing India's right to \"hot pursuit\" of militants into Pakistani territory.The tough talk from Democrat and Republican alike comes amid widespread recognition of the failure of the last seven years of US policy towards Pakistan. America has channelled some $10bn in military aid to Pakistan since 2001. The funds were to be used to hunt down militant groups and prevent the Taliban's re-emergence in Afghanistan. Instead the Bush administration has been forced to acknowledge that its investment in Pakistan has been largely wasted. It failed to stop the war from spilling over from Afghanistan into Pakistan. Worse, the borderlands became a staging post for the Taliban and Islamist militants.Bush administration officials have tacitly acknowledged the failure. Earlier this year US military forces began stepping up cross-border operations from Afghanistan into Pakistan with an aim of pacifying the tribal areas that provide a refuge for Taliban and Islamist fighters. Until the attacks, that failure of Bush policy was the main issue that concerned Obama. India, and the prospect of war with Pakistan, barely figured on his map. He was focused instead on how to bring quiet to Afghanistan. He said a year ago that he would back US military strikes against Pakistan-based militants if Islamabad failed to act. Now Obama has signalled that he intends to bring India into the mix. \"We can't continue to look at Afghanistan in isolation. We have to see it as part of a regional problem that includes Pakistan, includes India, includes Kashmir, includes Iran,\" he said in the interview with NBC.For some observers, the tilt towards India has been embodied in Obama's selection of Hillary Clinton as secretary of state. Bill Clinton elevated the US relationship with India during his presidency and persisted after India tested a nuclear device in 1998. Hillary carried on the tradition as first lady and senator, visiting India and cultivating ties with Indian immigrants in America. The community responded. In 2007 she raised $2m in one night at a fundraiser for Indians living in New York.During the primaries, the Obama camp attacked Clinton for her closeness to the Indian community, calling her the Democratic senator from Punjab. Obama is not making those jokes now.", "tags": ["India", "US Congress"], "title": "US worldview embraces India"},{"date": "2008-12-04T09:00:02Z", "country": "india", "content": "If you don't like it when Jews complain about being singled out, the slaughter in Mumbai should give you food for thought. In an attack that was in all other respects indiscriminate, two of the terrorists were specifically sent to the one building in the city where there were sure to be Jews. If terrorists intended to deliver a message that Jews can be attacked with impunity even in places where barely any of them live, it was received loud and clear.I visited the Chabad House in Dharamsala over the summer and remember thinking how easy it would be for terrorists to wreak havoc there. Chabad-Lubavitch is one of the largest Hasidic Jewish sects. Where Ultra-Orthodox Judaism is known for its rejection of the outside world, Chabad bucks the trend. On the instructions of its late Rebbe, Menachem Mendel Schneerson, Chabad emissaries were dispatched to every corner of the globe, with instructions to provide religious life and emotional support to the local Jewish community. Today, there are Chabad houses all over the world, from New York to Kinshasa, from Mumbai to Bishkek, tending to the needs of tens or hundreds of people. I have never particularly appreciated the proselytising aspect of the Chabad mission. It still irritates me when I am accosted in a Tel Aviv street by a chabadnik asking me to lay tefillin. But this is outreach exclusively to the secular Jewish world. Unlike evangelical Christians, Chabad are not interesting in converting those around them, and make great efforts to be a quiet, harmless part of their local community. In this sense, the Mumbai attacks mark the end of their innocence.In the midst of the maudlin clamour for explanation, one thing is clear: the terrorists who targeted Mumbai wanted to kill Jews. In succeeding in this goal, they instantly gave the lie to the disingenuous suggestion that Israel is the most dangerous place on earth for a Jew to live. And in choosing their target, they also gave the lie to the idea that this was some kind of proportionate response to the oppression of the Palestinians. If that was their agenda, they could have targeted the Israeli consulate. Instead, they attacked a Jewish communal centre, and in the process killed a Hasid from the Satmar movement, known for its virulent anti-Zionism. If you think this to be ironic, by the way, this means you fail to see the wood from the trees.We are frequently told that Islamist terrorists \u2013 whether from South Yorkshire or South Asia \u2013 are merely expressing their anger at injustices perpetrated against Muslims in Afghanistan, Iraq, Kashmir and Palestine. Why do these injustices lead them to violence where others don't? What about the plight of Muslims in Iran, Syria and China? Why does this not make them want to launch terrorist attacks? When will people begin to recognise a problem for what it is? India has now become the new frontline, absorbing provocation after provocation, while showing admirable restraint in response (if only Israel would occasionally follow its lead). In the summer, I wrote unequivocally in favour of Kashmiri self-determination, emphasising the human rights abuses Indian forces have committed there. In this sense, the situation is just like Palestine: it should be perfectly easy to argue for self-determination for Kashmiris and Palestinians without descending into apologetics when lunatics hovering at the fringes of their independence movements decide to mow down civilians. I always used to respond with cynicism when told that my synagogue in London is tightening its security procedures. Now I know they are right to be worried. For the Jewish world, Mumbai is proving to be a 9/11 moment. Suddenly, every Chabad House in the world has become a potential target. This, unfortunately, is the disproportionate power of terrorism in the internet age. Remarkably, though, Mumbai also offers inspiration. Rabbi Gavriel Holtzberg and his wife Rivka were killed in the attack but according to reports, a replacement is already preparing to go to Mumbai to run the Chabad centre. There is even the suggestion that Rivka's parents might take up the position. To an unreconstructed secularist, this is deeply humbling; the perfect embodiment of Barack Obama's famous election-night words: \"To those who would tear this world down, we will defeat you.\" May we all be lucky enough to have Chabad's resolve. ", "tags": ["Mumbai terror attacks", "Judaism", "World news", "Religion"], "title": "Alex Stein: Inspiration from India"},{"date": "2008-11-29T00:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The Mumbai terror attack has come after a series of terror strikes during the last few months in India. Obviously, the political leadership and the police intelligence in India have proved themselves unequal to the task.One cannot be blamed if it is thought that inefficiency and nepotism in the government machinery and police force may be making things easy for the terrorists. When corruption is so widespread, it is perhaps possible for terrorists to grease the palm of people in the government and police force to achieve their criminal aims. The fight against corruption and terrorism should go hand in hand; without eliminating corruption and nepotism in the government, it may not be possible to defeat the terrorist forces.India is a vibrant democracy with enormous freedom enjoyed by citizens, which is perhaps unique in this part of the world. While any Indian can be proud of such freedom, quality governance alone can ensure a safe and progressive life for citizens. One conspicuous aspect about India is that the lawbreakers have enormous loopholes and the government and the judiciary seldom punish them adequately. The terrorist who attempted to storm parliament in Delhi and was awarded the death penalty by the court is yet to be hanged after several months.NS VenkataramanTrustee, Nandini Voice For the Deprived, Chennai, India Shashi Tharoor (Comment, November 28) says \"what can destroy India is a change in the spirit of its people, away from the pluralism and coexistence that has been our greatest strength\". It is as if Nehru were still alive, \"Naxalite\" an obscure Scrabble word and the country not desperately overpopulated. He must know about the many thousands killed in the Indian sector of Kashmir over the last 20 years - estimates range from 50,000 to 100,000. Indian Kashmiris survive on antidepressants and the cost of quiet has been a lost generation and 700,000 occupation soldiers.Where is pluralism in Gujarat? The leaders of the post-Godhra pogroms against Muslims go unpunished. Nobody has been sentenced for the appalling murder of former MP Ehsan Jafri. If Muslims say there is no justice for them in India, who is to disagree? Hindutva is alive and well, terrorising Christians in Orissa and in Karnataka. We are told by its agents that Hindu terrorism is an impossibility in Hindustan. The unbearable population growth of the dysfunctional states of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh has already led to severe tension and riots between groups of Hindus in Mumbai, the city of every Indian migrant's dreams. If the credit meltdown hastened the end of a particular economic model, the latest meltdowns in inter-community respect suggest that Indians need to \"introspect deeply\" on the dangerous direction in which this wonderful country is headed. Cathal RabbitteMumbai, India The horrors of terrorism that Mumbai has been subjected to are much the same as what Sri Lanka has been subjected to at the hands of the Tamil Tigers for over a quarter of a century, but away from the media limelight. The Mumbai events highlight once again the obligation of the international community to do whatever possible to help eliminate such terrorism, wherever it occurs. In this regard, it is a reason for utmost disappointment that despite proscription Tamil Tigers carry out fundraising events openly in the UK to fund terror in Sri Lanka. We urge the UK government and police to rectify this situation urgently. Chula RajapakseSpokesperson, United Sri Lanka Association, Lower Hutt, New Zealand We are deeply saddened by the tragic loss of innocent lives in Mumbai. Nothing can justify the slaughter and kidnapping of civilians. However, it is erroneous to portray all Muslims as terrorists. This will give jihadists the chance to set off a clash between the west and the Muslim world at a time of uncertainty. The silent majority of Muslims condemn such abominable attacks. The challenges ahead are daunting. It is therefore time to show our disapproval to terrorists' twisted mindset by standing together to extinguish the flames of global terrorism.Dr Munjed Farid Al QutobLondon", "tags": ["Mumbai terror attacks", "India", "World news"], "title": "Letters: Mumbai challenge to India"},{"date": "2008-10-07T10:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The jeep slowly ambled its way through the busy bazaar, people running out of the way to avoid its wrath. A policeman jumps out, grabs some clothes displayed outside a shop, chucks them in the back of the jeep, and angrily reprimands the shopkeeper. The vehicle moves on, with a loudspeaker remonstrating other shopkeepers. I explain to my fellow backpackers that the police constantly ask shopkeepers not to put their wares on the street, so that any suspicious packages can be more easily identified. If they don't comply the police confiscate their goods as punishment.You could call this part of the Indian police force's anti-terrorism strategy. Paharganj market, where many foreign backpackers stay because of cheap and clean rooms, is opposite the main New Delhi railway station. A few weeks ago a series of small bombs went off less than a mile away at Connaught Place. India is on edge, with some commentators worried that more communal violence between Hindus and Muslims might break out here as tensions rise. There is much talk about establishing a US-style department of homeland security and there has been media frustration over the lack of any serious headway by the police and intelligence services on terrorism generally.In some ways, the always troubled relationship between India's majority Hindu (81%) and second largest minority (11%) Muslim population has become better. For a start there is no longer a continual standoff with Pakistan \u2013 always used by Hindu nationalists to raise doubts about the patriotism of Indian Muslims. Combined with this, Indian Muslims are firmly established in popular culture (through Bollywood, cricket, television soaps) to no longer warrant widespread suspicion. Third, Indians themselves have been very proactive in building community links and trying to reduce tensions every time a religious riot breaks out or a bomb goes off. Last year after the multiple terrorist attacks on Mumbai's local trains, many popular Muslims across the city made loud appeals for their co-religionists to donate blood at hospitals and contribute towards rescue activities. These may be symbolic gestures but they matter and they have an impact.But in many ways India's reputation as a relatively successful multicultural state is being undermined. Recent terrorist attacks have mostly been attributed to Indian-born Muslims, a change from the days when fingers immediately pointed towards Pakistan every time something went off. Pakistan has its own problems, as the Marriott Hotel bomb in Islamabad attested, thanks to the very groups its intelligence agency fostered as a way to undermine India.And then there are the Hindu fundamentalists. There has been growing anger about Hindu fundamentalists attacking Christians in the state of Orissa and more recently Karnataka because the former allege that Christian missionary groups are forcibly converting low caste Hindus to Christianity. There is no evidence of course, except some patchy stories that missionary groups offer health facilities and other benefits to members of congregations. For hardline Hindu groups such as the VHP (Vishwa Hindu Parishad) and its even more fanatical subsidiary Bajrang Dal \u2013 this is a valid enough excuse to attack Christians, destroy churches and intimidate politicians. These Hindu nationalist groups are also hated by Sikhs, who accuse them of trying to control Sikh politicians and their affairs, and by Muslims, who saw them play a major part during the anti-Muslim riots in Gujarat in 2002.But the matter is getting out of hand. An increasing number of police investigations have recently found Bajrang Dal activists with weapons and bombs, and even fake Muslim gear.  Many point out the obvious \u2013 that Bajrang Dal terrorists are trying to implicate Indian Muslims when attacking Muslim targets. And yet the Indian government is strangely reticent in targeting these Hindu fanatics with the same gusto it parades suspected Muslim terrorists.There's also no doubt that hardline Muslim groups want to use terrorism as a way of separating Hindus and Muslims, and there seems to be no real strategy or intelligence in dealing with the problem.Thus it's difficult to predict which way the wind will blow. In 2002, after the anti-Muslim pogroms in Gujarat, Hindu fanatics were openly claiming that the state was the start of a nationwide campaign. And yet their attempts to fan similar violence elsewhere failed and the Hindu nationalist BJP government lost the subsequent election because it didn't pay enough attention to poverty. Whatever the experts say, this country is too large and too complicated to predict. But unless something is done to quell rising Hindu fundamentalism, which also fans Muslim, Christian and Sikh grievances, then the Bajrang Dal could end up as India's Taliban. There's an old saying here \u2013 don't ever feed milk to a snake, sooner or later it will bite you.", "tags": ["India", "Religion", "World news", "Hinduism"], "title": "Sunny Hundal: The Indian government is reluctant to target Hindu nationalists responsible for recent violence"},{"date": "2008-12-15T09:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "For some old foreign policy hands in New Delhi, steeped in the politics of the cold war, there was an easy formula for sizing up the policies of US presidents. Republican, good for India. Democrat, bad.But that no longer holds after the attacks in Mumbai that Indians see as their own 9/11. Whether it's George Bush or Barack Obama in the White House, the attacks look set to further cement the alliance between New Delhi and Washington and deepen counter-terrorism and security cooperation between them.The future promise of that alliance is one of the most powerful tools of persuasion available to Washington to prevent India from retaliating and putting the region at risk of a full-scale war between two nuclear-armed neighbours.Bush saw India as an emerging world power and allowed it to buy US nuclear energy technology. The basis for the next stage of the relationship is evidence of a Pakistani connection to the gunmen who carried out the Mumbai attacks. New Delhi and Washington are assuming that it was carried out by Lashkar-e-Taiba, a militant group based near Lahore in Pakistan. India has complained for years about the involvement of Lashkar-e-Taiba in attacks on Indian-held Kashmir from bases in the Pakistani-ruled sector. It has also accused Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence agency of training and supporting the group.Now \u2013 because of concerns about a wider conflict \u2013 there are signs Washington is listening and has put Pakistan on notice it must act against the group. The rationale is that the best way of preventing a wider war would be to show India that the US can get Pakistan to make an effective crackdown on militants. In addition, America is concerned that, if Pakistan perceives there to be a real threat of war with India, it will move its troops away from the Afghan frontier, giving more room for the militants to operate.Condoleezza Rice, after her visit to the region last week, made it clear that Washington expected the government of Asif Ali Zardari to take swift action against Lashkar-e-Taiba and other Islamist groups. She told CNN: \"We are awaiting action, and that action needs to take place soon.\" Such statements are intended to ease the domestic political pressure on the Indian government for harsh retaliation against Pakistan, possibly bombing the training camps of Lashkar-e-Taiba.Obama has gone a step further than Rice, endorsing India's right to catch the perpetrators of the attack and bring them to justice. \"If a country is attacked, it has the right to defend itself,\" Obama told NBC television. But he stopped short of backing India's right to \"hot pursuit\" of militants into Pakistani territory.The tough talk from Democrat and Republican alike comes amid widespread recognition of the failure of the last seven years of US policy towards Pakistan. America has channelled some $10bn in military aid to Pakistan since 2001. The funds were to be used to hunt down militant groups and prevent the Taliban's re-emergence in Afghanistan. Instead the Bush administration has been forced to acknowledge that its investment in Pakistan has been largely wasted. It failed to stop the war from spilling over from Afghanistan into Pakistan. Worse, the borderlands became a staging post for the Taliban and Islamist militants.Bush administration officials have tacitly acknowledged the failure. Earlier this year US military forces began stepping up cross-border operations from Afghanistan into Pakistan with an aim of pacifying the tribal areas that provide a refuge for Taliban and Islamist fighters. Until the attacks, that failure of Bush policy was the main issue that concerned Obama. India, and the prospect of war with Pakistan, barely figured on his map. He was focused instead on how to bring quiet to Afghanistan. He said a year ago that he would back US military strikes against Pakistan-based militants if Islamabad failed to act. Now Obama has signalled that he intends to bring India into the mix. \"We can't continue to look at Afghanistan in isolation. We have to see it as part of a regional problem that includes Pakistan, includes India, includes Kashmir, includes Iran,\" he said in the interview with NBC.For some observers, the tilt towards India has been embodied in Obama's selection of Hillary Clinton as secretary of state. Bill Clinton elevated the US relationship with India during his presidency and persisted after India tested a nuclear device in 1998. Hillary carried on the tradition as first lady and senator, visiting India and cultivating ties with Indian immigrants in America. The community responded. In 2007 she raised $2m in one night at a fundraiser for Indians living in New York.During the primaries, the Obama camp attacked Clinton for her closeness to the Indian community, calling her the Democratic senator from Punjab. Obama is not making those jokes now.", "tags": ["India", "US Congress"], "title": "US worldview embraces India"},{"date": "2008-12-04T09:00:02Z", "country": "india", "content": "If you don't like it when Jews complain about being singled out, the slaughter in Mumbai should give you food for thought. In an attack that was in all other respects indiscriminate, two of the terrorists were specifically sent to the one building in the city where there were sure to be Jews. If terrorists intended to deliver a message that Jews can be attacked with impunity even in places where barely any of them live, it was received loud and clear.I visited the Chabad House in Dharamsala over the summer and remember thinking how easy it would be for terrorists to wreak havoc there. Chabad-Lubavitch is one of the largest Hasidic Jewish sects. Where Ultra-Orthodox Judaism is known for its rejection of the outside world, Chabad bucks the trend. On the instructions of its late Rebbe, Menachem Mendel Schneerson, Chabad emissaries were dispatched to every corner of the globe, with instructions to provide religious life and emotional support to the local Jewish community. Today, there are Chabad houses all over the world, from New York to Kinshasa, from Mumbai to Bishkek, tending to the needs of tens or hundreds of people. I have never particularly appreciated the proselytising aspect of the Chabad mission. It still irritates me when I am accosted in a Tel Aviv street by a chabadnik asking me to lay tefillin. But this is outreach exclusively to the secular Jewish world. Unlike evangelical Christians, Chabad are not interesting in converting those around them, and make great efforts to be a quiet, harmless part of their local community. In this sense, the Mumbai attacks mark the end of their innocence.In the midst of the maudlin clamour for explanation, one thing is clear: the terrorists who targeted Mumbai wanted to kill Jews. In succeeding in this goal, they instantly gave the lie to the disingenuous suggestion that Israel is the most dangerous place on earth for a Jew to live. And in choosing their target, they also gave the lie to the idea that this was some kind of proportionate response to the oppression of the Palestinians. If that was their agenda, they could have targeted the Israeli consulate. Instead, they attacked a Jewish communal centre, and in the process killed a Hasid from the Satmar movement, known for its virulent anti-Zionism. If you think this to be ironic, by the way, this means you fail to see the wood from the trees.We are frequently told that Islamist terrorists \u2013 whether from South Yorkshire or South Asia \u2013 are merely expressing their anger at injustices perpetrated against Muslims in Afghanistan, Iraq, Kashmir and Palestine. Why do these injustices lead them to violence where others don't? What about the plight of Muslims in Iran, Syria and China? Why does this not make them want to launch terrorist attacks? When will people begin to recognise a problem for what it is? India has now become the new frontline, absorbing provocation after provocation, while showing admirable restraint in response (if only Israel would occasionally follow its lead). In the summer, I wrote unequivocally in favour of Kashmiri self-determination, emphasising the human rights abuses Indian forces have committed there. In this sense, the situation is just like Palestine: it should be perfectly easy to argue for self-determination for Kashmiris and Palestinians without descending into apologetics when lunatics hovering at the fringes of their independence movements decide to mow down civilians. I always used to respond with cynicism when told that my synagogue in London is tightening its security procedures. Now I know they are right to be worried. For the Jewish world, Mumbai is proving to be a 9/11 moment. Suddenly, every Chabad House in the world has become a potential target. This, unfortunately, is the disproportionate power of terrorism in the internet age. Remarkably, though, Mumbai also offers inspiration. Rabbi Gavriel Holtzberg and his wife Rivka were killed in the attack but according to reports, a replacement is already preparing to go to Mumbai to run the Chabad centre. There is even the suggestion that Rivka's parents might take up the position. To an unreconstructed secularist, this is deeply humbling; the perfect embodiment of Barack Obama's famous election-night words: \"To those who would tear this world down, we will defeat you.\" May we all be lucky enough to have Chabad's resolve. ", "tags": ["Mumbai terror attacks", "Judaism", "World news", "Religion"], "title": "Alex Stein: Inspiration from India"},{"date": "2008-11-29T00:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The Mumbai terror attack has come after a series of terror strikes during the last few months in India. Obviously, the political leadership and the police intelligence in India have proved themselves unequal to the task.One cannot be blamed if it is thought that inefficiency and nepotism in the government machinery and police force may be making things easy for the terrorists. When corruption is so widespread, it is perhaps possible for terrorists to grease the palm of people in the government and police force to achieve their criminal aims. The fight against corruption and terrorism should go hand in hand; without eliminating corruption and nepotism in the government, it may not be possible to defeat the terrorist forces.India is a vibrant democracy with enormous freedom enjoyed by citizens, which is perhaps unique in this part of the world. While any Indian can be proud of such freedom, quality governance alone can ensure a safe and progressive life for citizens. One conspicuous aspect about India is that the lawbreakers have enormous loopholes and the government and the judiciary seldom punish them adequately. The terrorist who attempted to storm parliament in Delhi and was awarded the death penalty by the court is yet to be hanged after several months.NS VenkataramanTrustee, Nandini Voice For the Deprived, Chennai, India Shashi Tharoor (Comment, November 28) says \"what can destroy India is a change in the spirit of its people, away from the pluralism and coexistence that has been our greatest strength\". It is as if Nehru were still alive, \"Naxalite\" an obscure Scrabble word and the country not desperately overpopulated. He must know about the many thousands killed in the Indian sector of Kashmir over the last 20 years - estimates range from 50,000 to 100,000. Indian Kashmiris survive on antidepressants and the cost of quiet has been a lost generation and 700,000 occupation soldiers.Where is pluralism in Gujarat? The leaders of the post-Godhra pogroms against Muslims go unpunished. Nobody has been sentenced for the appalling murder of former MP Ehsan Jafri. If Muslims say there is no justice for them in India, who is to disagree? Hindutva is alive and well, terrorising Christians in Orissa and in Karnataka. We are told by its agents that Hindu terrorism is an impossibility in Hindustan. The unbearable population growth of the dysfunctional states of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh has already led to severe tension and riots between groups of Hindus in Mumbai, the city of every Indian migrant's dreams. If the credit meltdown hastened the end of a particular economic model, the latest meltdowns in inter-community respect suggest that Indians need to \"introspect deeply\" on the dangerous direction in which this wonderful country is headed. Cathal RabbitteMumbai, India The horrors of terrorism that Mumbai has been subjected to are much the same as what Sri Lanka has been subjected to at the hands of the Tamil Tigers for over a quarter of a century, but away from the media limelight. The Mumbai events highlight once again the obligation of the international community to do whatever possible to help eliminate such terrorism, wherever it occurs. In this regard, it is a reason for utmost disappointment that despite proscription Tamil Tigers carry out fundraising events openly in the UK to fund terror in Sri Lanka. We urge the UK government and police to rectify this situation urgently. Chula RajapakseSpokesperson, United Sri Lanka Association, Lower Hutt, New Zealand We are deeply saddened by the tragic loss of innocent lives in Mumbai. Nothing can justify the slaughter and kidnapping of civilians. However, it is erroneous to portray all Muslims as terrorists. This will give jihadists the chance to set off a clash between the west and the Muslim world at a time of uncertainty. The silent majority of Muslims condemn such abominable attacks. The challenges ahead are daunting. It is therefore time to show our disapproval to terrorists' twisted mindset by standing together to extinguish the flames of global terrorism.Dr Munjed Farid Al QutobLondon", "tags": ["Mumbai terror attacks", "India", "World news"], "title": "Letters: Mumbai challenge to India"},{"date": "2008-11-26T19:35:18Z", "country": "india", "content": "March 12, 1993 257 killed and more than 1,000 injured in 15 co-ordinated bomb attacks in Bombay. The attacks were seen as retaliation for earlier anti-Muslim riots that left hundreds deadFebruary 14, 1998 46 people were killed and more than 200 injured in 13 car bombs in the city of Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu. The attacks were blamed on the \"Al Umma\" Islamist groupDecember 13, 2001 7 killed when five gunmen, one wearing a suicide vested, attack the parliament complex in New Delhi. The assailants all died in the attack, and four members of the Pakistan-based Islamist group Jaish-e-Mohammed were later convicted for their part in the plotAugust 25, 2003 At least 45 people killed and 150 injured when twin car bombs exploded, one near the Taj Mahal hotel, and the other in a jewellery market near the Mumba Devi temple in central Mumbai. No group claimed responsibility, but authorities blamed the Kashmiri Islamist group Lashkar-e-TaibaOctober 29, 2005 61 killed and at least 210 injured when three bombs explode in markets in New Delhi two days before the Hindu festival of Diwali. A little-known Kashmiri militant organisation, Islami Inqilabi Mahaz (Islamic Revolutionary Group) claimed responsibility, but authorities blamed Lashkar-e-TaibaJuly 11, 2006 At least 200 killed and 700 injuried when seven bombs exploded in crowded commuter trains during the evening rush hour near Mumbai. Police blamed Lashkar-e-Taiba and Students Islamic Movement of India (SIMI)August 25, 2007 At least 42 people killed when two bombs exploded in Hyderabad's Lumbini park and a restaurant May 13, 2008 At least 60 killed in 9 bombs in JaipurJuly 26, 2008 At least 45 people killed in a string of bomb attacks in Ahmedabad. Within an 17 bombs exploded in residential areas, market places, hospitals and on public transportOctober 30, 2008 At least 40 killed in a string of bomb explosions in north-eastern state of Assam. More than 150 others were injured, mostly in the main city of Guwahati", "tags": ["India", "World news"], "title": "Timeline: Attacks in India"},{"date": "2008-10-07T10:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The jeep slowly ambled its way through the busy bazaar, people running out of the way to avoid its wrath. A policeman jumps out, grabs some clothes displayed outside a shop, chucks them in the back of the jeep, and angrily reprimands the shopkeeper. The vehicle moves on, with a loudspeaker remonstrating other shopkeepers. I explain to my fellow backpackers that the police constantly ask shopkeepers not to put their wares on the street, so that any suspicious packages can be more easily identified. If they don't comply the police confiscate their goods as punishment.You could call this part of the Indian police force's anti-terrorism strategy. Paharganj market, where many foreign backpackers stay because of cheap and clean rooms, is opposite the main New Delhi railway station. A few weeks ago a series of small bombs went off less than a mile away at Connaught Place. India is on edge, with some commentators worried that more communal violence between Hindus and Muslims might break out here as tensions rise. There is much talk about establishing a US-style department of homeland security and there has been media frustration over the lack of any serious headway by the police and intelligence services on terrorism generally.In some ways, the always troubled relationship between India's majority Hindu (81%) and second largest minority (11%) Muslim population has become better. For a start there is no longer a continual standoff with Pakistan \u2013 always used by Hindu nationalists to raise doubts about the patriotism of Indian Muslims. Combined with this, Indian Muslims are firmly established in popular culture (through Bollywood, cricket, television soaps) to no longer warrant widespread suspicion. Third, Indians themselves have been very proactive in building community links and trying to reduce tensions every time a religious riot breaks out or a bomb goes off. Last year after the multiple terrorist attacks on Mumbai's local trains, many popular Muslims across the city made loud appeals for their co-religionists to donate blood at hospitals and contribute towards rescue activities. These may be symbolic gestures but they matter and they have an impact.But in many ways India's reputation as a relatively successful multicultural state is being undermined. Recent terrorist attacks have mostly been attributed to Indian-born Muslims, a change from the days when fingers immediately pointed towards Pakistan every time something went off. Pakistan has its own problems, as the Marriott Hotel bomb in Islamabad attested, thanks to the very groups its intelligence agency fostered as a way to undermine India.And then there are the Hindu fundamentalists. There has been growing anger about Hindu fundamentalists attacking Christians in the state of Orissa and more recently Karnataka because the former allege that Christian missionary groups are forcibly converting low caste Hindus to Christianity. There is no evidence of course, except some patchy stories that missionary groups offer health facilities and other benefits to members of congregations. For hardline Hindu groups such as the VHP (Vishwa Hindu Parishad) and its even more fanatical subsidiary Bajrang Dal \u2013 this is a valid enough excuse to attack Christians, destroy churches and intimidate politicians. These Hindu nationalist groups are also hated by Sikhs, who accuse them of trying to control Sikh politicians and their affairs, and by Muslims, who saw them play a major part during the anti-Muslim riots in Gujarat in 2002.But the matter is getting out of hand. An increasing number of police investigations have recently found Bajrang Dal activists with weapons and bombs, and even fake Muslim gear.  Many point out the obvious \u2013 that Bajrang Dal terrorists are trying to implicate Indian Muslims when attacking Muslim targets. And yet the Indian government is strangely reticent in targeting these Hindu fanatics with the same gusto it parades suspected Muslim terrorists.There's also no doubt that hardline Muslim groups want to use terrorism as a way of separating Hindus and Muslims, and there seems to be no real strategy or intelligence in dealing with the problem.Thus it's difficult to predict which way the wind will blow. In 2002, after the anti-Muslim pogroms in Gujarat, Hindu fanatics were openly claiming that the state was the start of a nationwide campaign. And yet their attempts to fan similar violence elsewhere failed and the Hindu nationalist BJP government lost the subsequent election because it didn't pay enough attention to poverty. Whatever the experts say, this country is too large and too complicated to predict. But unless something is done to quell rising Hindu fundamentalism, which also fans Muslim, Christian and Sikh grievances, then the Bajrang Dal could end up as India's Taliban. There's an old saying here \u2013 don't ever feed milk to a snake, sooner or later it will bite you.", "tags": ["India", "Religion", "World news", "Hinduism"], "title": "Sunny Hundal: The Indian government is reluctant to target Hindu nationalists responsible for recent violence"},{"date": "2008-12-15T09:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "For some old foreign policy hands in New Delhi, steeped in the politics of the cold war, there was an easy formula for sizing up the policies of US presidents. Republican, good for India. Democrat, bad.But that no longer holds after the attacks in Mumbai that Indians see as their own 9/11. Whether it's George Bush or Barack Obama in the White House, the attacks look set to further cement the alliance between New Delhi and Washington and deepen counter-terrorism and security cooperation between them.The future promise of that alliance is one of the most powerful tools of persuasion available to Washington to prevent India from retaliating and putting the region at risk of a full-scale war between two nuclear-armed neighbours.Bush saw India as an emerging world power and allowed it to buy US nuclear energy technology. The basis for the next stage of the relationship is evidence of a Pakistani connection to the gunmen who carried out the Mumbai attacks. New Delhi and Washington are assuming that it was carried out by Lashkar-e-Taiba, a militant group based near Lahore in Pakistan. India has complained for years about the involvement of Lashkar-e-Taiba in attacks on Indian-held Kashmir from bases in the Pakistani-ruled sector. It has also accused Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence agency of training and supporting the group.Now \u2013 because of concerns about a wider conflict \u2013 there are signs Washington is listening and has put Pakistan on notice it must act against the group. The rationale is that the best way of preventing a wider war would be to show India that the US can get Pakistan to make an effective crackdown on militants. In addition, America is concerned that, if Pakistan perceives there to be a real threat of war with India, it will move its troops away from the Afghan frontier, giving more room for the militants to operate.Condoleezza Rice, after her visit to the region last week, made it clear that Washington expected the government of Asif Ali Zardari to take swift action against Lashkar-e-Taiba and other Islamist groups. She told CNN: \"We are awaiting action, and that action needs to take place soon.\" Such statements are intended to ease the domestic political pressure on the Indian government for harsh retaliation against Pakistan, possibly bombing the training camps of Lashkar-e-Taiba.Obama has gone a step further than Rice, endorsing India's right to catch the perpetrators of the attack and bring them to justice. \"If a country is attacked, it has the right to defend itself,\" Obama told NBC television. But he stopped short of backing India's right to \"hot pursuit\" of militants into Pakistani territory.The tough talk from Democrat and Republican alike comes amid widespread recognition of the failure of the last seven years of US policy towards Pakistan. America has channelled some $10bn in military aid to Pakistan since 2001. The funds were to be used to hunt down militant groups and prevent the Taliban's re-emergence in Afghanistan. Instead the Bush administration has been forced to acknowledge that its investment in Pakistan has been largely wasted. It failed to stop the war from spilling over from Afghanistan into Pakistan. Worse, the borderlands became a staging post for the Taliban and Islamist militants.Bush administration officials have tacitly acknowledged the failure. Earlier this year US military forces began stepping up cross-border operations from Afghanistan into Pakistan with an aim of pacifying the tribal areas that provide a refuge for Taliban and Islamist fighters. Until the attacks, that failure of Bush policy was the main issue that concerned Obama. India, and the prospect of war with Pakistan, barely figured on his map. He was focused instead on how to bring quiet to Afghanistan. He said a year ago that he would back US military strikes against Pakistan-based militants if Islamabad failed to act. Now Obama has signalled that he intends to bring India into the mix. \"We can't continue to look at Afghanistan in isolation. We have to see it as part of a regional problem that includes Pakistan, includes India, includes Kashmir, includes Iran,\" he said in the interview with NBC.For some observers, the tilt towards India has been embodied in Obama's selection of Hillary Clinton as secretary of state. Bill Clinton elevated the US relationship with India during his presidency and persisted after India tested a nuclear device in 1998. Hillary carried on the tradition as first lady and senator, visiting India and cultivating ties with Indian immigrants in America. The community responded. In 2007 she raised $2m in one night at a fundraiser for Indians living in New York.During the primaries, the Obama camp attacked Clinton for her closeness to the Indian community, calling her the Democratic senator from Punjab. Obama is not making those jokes now.", "tags": ["India", "US Congress"], "title": "US worldview embraces India"},{"date": "2008-12-04T09:00:02Z", "country": "india", "content": "If you don't like it when Jews complain about being singled out, the slaughter in Mumbai should give you food for thought. In an attack that was in all other respects indiscriminate, two of the terrorists were specifically sent to the one building in the city where there were sure to be Jews. If terrorists intended to deliver a message that Jews can be attacked with impunity even in places where barely any of them live, it was received loud and clear.I visited the Chabad House in Dharamsala over the summer and remember thinking how easy it would be for terrorists to wreak havoc there. Chabad-Lubavitch is one of the largest Hasidic Jewish sects. Where Ultra-Orthodox Judaism is known for its rejection of the outside world, Chabad bucks the trend. On the instructions of its late Rebbe, Menachem Mendel Schneerson, Chabad emissaries were dispatched to every corner of the globe, with instructions to provide religious life and emotional support to the local Jewish community. Today, there are Chabad houses all over the world, from New York to Kinshasa, from Mumbai to Bishkek, tending to the needs of tens or hundreds of people. I have never particularly appreciated the proselytising aspect of the Chabad mission. It still irritates me when I am accosted in a Tel Aviv street by a chabadnik asking me to lay tefillin. But this is outreach exclusively to the secular Jewish world. Unlike evangelical Christians, Chabad are not interesting in converting those around them, and make great efforts to be a quiet, harmless part of their local community. In this sense, the Mumbai attacks mark the end of their innocence.In the midst of the maudlin clamour for explanation, one thing is clear: the terrorists who targeted Mumbai wanted to kill Jews. In succeeding in this goal, they instantly gave the lie to the disingenuous suggestion that Israel is the most dangerous place on earth for a Jew to live. And in choosing their target, they also gave the lie to the idea that this was some kind of proportionate response to the oppression of the Palestinians. If that was their agenda, they could have targeted the Israeli consulate. Instead, they attacked a Jewish communal centre, and in the process killed a Hasid from the Satmar movement, known for its virulent anti-Zionism. If you think this to be ironic, by the way, this means you fail to see the wood from the trees.We are frequently told that Islamist terrorists \u2013 whether from South Yorkshire or South Asia \u2013 are merely expressing their anger at injustices perpetrated against Muslims in Afghanistan, Iraq, Kashmir and Palestine. Why do these injustices lead them to violence where others don't? What about the plight of Muslims in Iran, Syria and China? Why does this not make them want to launch terrorist attacks? When will people begin to recognise a problem for what it is? India has now become the new frontline, absorbing provocation after provocation, while showing admirable restraint in response (if only Israel would occasionally follow its lead). In the summer, I wrote unequivocally in favour of Kashmiri self-determination, emphasising the human rights abuses Indian forces have committed there. In this sense, the situation is just like Palestine: it should be perfectly easy to argue for self-determination for Kashmiris and Palestinians without descending into apologetics when lunatics hovering at the fringes of their independence movements decide to mow down civilians. I always used to respond with cynicism when told that my synagogue in London is tightening its security procedures. Now I know they are right to be worried. For the Jewish world, Mumbai is proving to be a 9/11 moment. Suddenly, every Chabad House in the world has become a potential target. This, unfortunately, is the disproportionate power of terrorism in the internet age. Remarkably, though, Mumbai also offers inspiration. Rabbi Gavriel Holtzberg and his wife Rivka were killed in the attack but according to reports, a replacement is already preparing to go to Mumbai to run the Chabad centre. There is even the suggestion that Rivka's parents might take up the position. To an unreconstructed secularist, this is deeply humbling; the perfect embodiment of Barack Obama's famous election-night words: \"To those who would tear this world down, we will defeat you.\" May we all be lucky enough to have Chabad's resolve. ", "tags": ["Mumbai terror attacks", "Judaism", "World news", "Religion"], "title": "Alex Stein: Inspiration from India"},{"date": "2008-11-29T00:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The Mumbai terror attack has come after a series of terror strikes during the last few months in India. Obviously, the political leadership and the police intelligence in India have proved themselves unequal to the task.One cannot be blamed if it is thought that inefficiency and nepotism in the government machinery and police force may be making things easy for the terrorists. When corruption is so widespread, it is perhaps possible for terrorists to grease the palm of people in the government and police force to achieve their criminal aims. The fight against corruption and terrorism should go hand in hand; without eliminating corruption and nepotism in the government, it may not be possible to defeat the terrorist forces.India is a vibrant democracy with enormous freedom enjoyed by citizens, which is perhaps unique in this part of the world. While any Indian can be proud of such freedom, quality governance alone can ensure a safe and progressive life for citizens. One conspicuous aspect about India is that the lawbreakers have enormous loopholes and the government and the judiciary seldom punish them adequately. The terrorist who attempted to storm parliament in Delhi and was awarded the death penalty by the court is yet to be hanged after several months.NS VenkataramanTrustee, Nandini Voice For the Deprived, Chennai, India Shashi Tharoor (Comment, November 28) says \"what can destroy India is a change in the spirit of its people, away from the pluralism and coexistence that has been our greatest strength\". It is as if Nehru were still alive, \"Naxalite\" an obscure Scrabble word and the country not desperately overpopulated. He must know about the many thousands killed in the Indian sector of Kashmir over the last 20 years - estimates range from 50,000 to 100,000. Indian Kashmiris survive on antidepressants and the cost of quiet has been a lost generation and 700,000 occupation soldiers.Where is pluralism in Gujarat? The leaders of the post-Godhra pogroms against Muslims go unpunished. Nobody has been sentenced for the appalling murder of former MP Ehsan Jafri. If Muslims say there is no justice for them in India, who is to disagree? Hindutva is alive and well, terrorising Christians in Orissa and in Karnataka. We are told by its agents that Hindu terrorism is an impossibility in Hindustan. The unbearable population growth of the dysfunctional states of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh has already led to severe tension and riots between groups of Hindus in Mumbai, the city of every Indian migrant's dreams. If the credit meltdown hastened the end of a particular economic model, the latest meltdowns in inter-community respect suggest that Indians need to \"introspect deeply\" on the dangerous direction in which this wonderful country is headed. Cathal RabbitteMumbai, India The horrors of terrorism that Mumbai has been subjected to are much the same as what Sri Lanka has been subjected to at the hands of the Tamil Tigers for over a quarter of a century, but away from the media limelight. The Mumbai events highlight once again the obligation of the international community to do whatever possible to help eliminate such terrorism, wherever it occurs. In this regard, it is a reason for utmost disappointment that despite proscription Tamil Tigers carry out fundraising events openly in the UK to fund terror in Sri Lanka. We urge the UK government and police to rectify this situation urgently. Chula RajapakseSpokesperson, United Sri Lanka Association, Lower Hutt, New Zealand We are deeply saddened by the tragic loss of innocent lives in Mumbai. Nothing can justify the slaughter and kidnapping of civilians. However, it is erroneous to portray all Muslims as terrorists. This will give jihadists the chance to set off a clash between the west and the Muslim world at a time of uncertainty. The silent majority of Muslims condemn such abominable attacks. The challenges ahead are daunting. It is therefore time to show our disapproval to terrorists' twisted mindset by standing together to extinguish the flames of global terrorism.Dr Munjed Farid Al QutobLondon", "tags": ["Mumbai terror attacks", "India", "World news"], "title": "Letters: Mumbai challenge to India"},{"date": "2008-11-26T19:35:18Z", "country": "india", "content": "March 12, 1993 257 killed and more than 1,000 injured in 15 co-ordinated bomb attacks in Bombay. The attacks were seen as retaliation for earlier anti-Muslim riots that left hundreds deadFebruary 14, 1998 46 people were killed and more than 200 injured in 13 car bombs in the city of Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu. The attacks were blamed on the \"Al Umma\" Islamist groupDecember 13, 2001 7 killed when five gunmen, one wearing a suicide vested, attack the parliament complex in New Delhi. The assailants all died in the attack, and four members of the Pakistan-based Islamist group Jaish-e-Mohammed were later convicted for their part in the plotAugust 25, 2003 At least 45 people killed and 150 injured when twin car bombs exploded, one near the Taj Mahal hotel, and the other in a jewellery market near the Mumba Devi temple in central Mumbai. No group claimed responsibility, but authorities blamed the Kashmiri Islamist group Lashkar-e-TaibaOctober 29, 2005 61 killed and at least 210 injured when three bombs explode in markets in New Delhi two days before the Hindu festival of Diwali. A little-known Kashmiri militant organisation, Islami Inqilabi Mahaz (Islamic Revolutionary Group) claimed responsibility, but authorities blamed Lashkar-e-TaibaJuly 11, 2006 At least 200 killed and 700 injuried when seven bombs exploded in crowded commuter trains during the evening rush hour near Mumbai. Police blamed Lashkar-e-Taiba and Students Islamic Movement of India (SIMI)August 25, 2007 At least 42 people killed when two bombs exploded in Hyderabad's Lumbini park and a restaurant May 13, 2008 At least 60 killed in 9 bombs in JaipurJuly 26, 2008 At least 45 people killed in a string of bomb attacks in Ahmedabad. Within an 17 bombs exploded in residential areas, market places, hospitals and on public transportOctober 30, 2008 At least 40 killed in a string of bomb explosions in north-eastern state of Assam. More than 150 others were injured, mostly in the main city of Guwahati", "tags": ["India", "World news"], "title": "Timeline: Attacks in India"},{"date": "2008-10-23T23:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "It was satisfying to see the coverage of India's Chandrayaan-1 mission to the moon (October 21 and 23), but rather saddening to see no recognition (or even mention) of the substantial UK involvement. One of the key instruments on board Chandrayaan-1 is CIXS, which will map the surface composition of lunar soil and rock \u2013 something which is the key to understanding the origins and evolution of the Earth-moon system. CIXS has been developed, built and led by a UK team \u2013 the instrument was built at the Rutherford Appleton Laboratory and science leadership is by Professor Manuel Grande at Aberystwyth. In assembling the instrument suite for Chandrayaan-1, the Indian Space Agency chose the best experiments on offer, regardless of country of origin. It would be nice to see the efforts of the CIXS team and the UK contribution to this mission recognised.Dr Andy BreenSolar system physics research group, Aberystwyth University", "tags": ["Space", "India", "Science", "Technology", "World news", "The moon"], "title": "Letter: India gives UK space"},{"date": "2009-02-01T00:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Even people who have not heard of Varanasi have heard of it - it's just that they know it by its other name, Benares. That's how it was referred to by the three photographers - Raghubir Singh, William Gedney and Michael Ackerman - whose pictures of this amazing place made me want to go there in the first place. But as anyone who has visited India's holiest Hindu city will know, there is a dearth of nice places to stay. The Taj Ganges, on the outskirts of town, is sedate (if rather anodyne) and any tranquillity stored up there will be devoured by the nerve-shredding, 40-minute journey down to the Ganges. Most of the places on the ghats, on the banks of the mighty river itself, are for backpackers. Which means the only place to stay is the Ganges View at Assi Ghat - essentially a large family home, half of which has been converted into a guesthouse. Assi is a mile or so upstream from Manikarnika burning ghat - where families bring their dead to be cremated - and the journey there from the hotel - on foot or by boat - is a dream of beauty, flecked with traces of nightmare.Aside from the location, the biggest attraction of the hotel is the huge terrace - prone to occasional monkey raids - overlooking the Ganges. There's a terrific bookshop a few doors away. The owner, Shashank, is a connoisseur of Indian classical music, and concerts are sometimes held on the terrace. It's lovely to be able to step out of the hotel straight into the intensity of life (and death) on the ghats, and even lovelier to be able to step back inside this refuge when your senses have been thoroughly overwhelmed - as they are approximately every 15 minutes.\u2022 A double room costs from 3,000 rupees (\u00a341) (www.hotelgangesview.com). You can fly, but an atmospheric way to travel is by train. The Shriv Ganga Express, an overnight sleeper from Delhi, costs \u00a317 (www.seat61.com). Geoff Dyer's new novel, Jeff in Venice, Death in Varanasi, will be published by Canongate in April", "tags": ["India holidays", "Hotels", "Travel"], "title": "Geoff Dyer travels to Varanasi in India"},{"date": "2009-02-01T00:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Even people who have not heard of Varanasi have heard of it - it's just that they know it by its other name, Benares. That's how it was referred to by the three photographers - Raghubir Singh, William Gedney and Michael Ackerman - whose pictures of this amazing place made me want to go there in the first place. But as anyone who has visited India's holiest Hindu city will know, there is a dearth of nice places to stay. The Taj Ganges, on the outskirts of town, is sedate (if rather anodyne) and any tranquillity stored up there will be devoured by the nerve-shredding, 40-minute journey down to the Ganges. Most of the places on the ghats, on the banks of the mighty river itself, are for backpackers. Which means the only place to stay is the Ganges View at Assi Ghat - essentially a large family home, half of which has been converted into a guesthouse. Assi is a mile or so upstream from Manikarnika burning ghat - where families bring their dead to be cremated - and the journey there from the hotel - on foot or by boat - is a dream of beauty, flecked with traces of nightmare.Aside from the location, the biggest attraction of the hotel is the huge terrace - prone to occasional monkey raids - overlooking the Ganges. There's a terrific bookshop a few doors away. The owner, Shashank, is a connoisseur of Indian classical music, and concerts are sometimes held on the terrace. It's lovely to be able to step out of the hotel straight into the intensity of life (and death) on the ghats, and even lovelier to be able to step back inside this refuge when your senses have been thoroughly overwhelmed - as they are approximately every 15 minutes.\u2022 A double room costs from 3,000 rupees (\u00a341) (www.hotelgangesview.com). You can fly, but an atmospheric way to travel is by train. The Shriv Ganga Express, an overnight sleeper from Delhi, costs \u00a317 (www.seat61.com). Geoff Dyer's new novel, Jeff in Venice, Death in Varanasi, will be published by Canongate in April", "tags": ["India holidays", "Hotels", "Travel"], "title": "Geoff Dyer travels to Varanasi in India"},{"date": "2009-01-22T16:04:46Z", "country": "india", "content": "Indian scientists have launched an 'agricultural Wikipedia' to act as an online repository of agricultural information in the country.The government-backed initiative, Agropedia, was launched last week (12 January).It aims to disseminate crop- and region-specific information to farmers and agricultural extension workers \u2014 who communicate agricultural information and research findings to farmers \u2014 and provide information for students and researchers.The website currently contains information on nine crops \u2014 rice, wheat, chickpea, pigeon pea, vegetable pea, lychee, sugarcane, groundnut and sorghum \u2014 but its creators say that all agriculture-related topics will be eventually covered.Content will be continually added and validated through review and analysis by invited agricultural researchers, in a manner similar to that used by Wikipedia and using open source tools, says V. Balaji, head of knowledge management and sharing with the International Crop Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT), a partner in the project.The site also houses blogs and forums where anyone can provide and exchange knowledge.The 85 million-rupee (around US$17 million) project is being implemented over 30 months and is backed by the National Agricultural Innovation Project, a six-year government programme intended to modernise agriculture.The World Bank and the Indian government have provided the funding for the project and six Indian agricultural and technology institutions are partners in the project, providing information and technological expertise.India is considered a global leader in promoting innovative ways of using technology for farm and rural outreach, Balaji told SciDev.Net.In the last five years close to 12,000 information technology-enabled rural information centres \u2014 some with Internet access \u2014 have been established but there is a lack of accessible agricultural information, he says.It is hoped that even where farmers have no access to the Internet, the Agropedia information can be used as a basis for radio plays, for example, says Balaji.Agropedia's lead architect, T. V. Prabhakar of the Indian Institute of Technology in Kanpur, initially envisioned the website as the equivalent of Wikipedia for global agriculture three years ago, but for now it will concentrate on India-specific information.He says that the initial phase of the project \u2014 developing a mechanism to manage the vast repository of knowledge \u2014 is nearly completed, and the next step is to develop ways to disseminate the knowledge.Trials will soon begin in six locations around the country.\u2022 This article was shared by our content partner SciDev, part of the Guardian Environment Network", "tags": ["Food", "Environment"], "title": "M. Sreelata on India's new agricultural Wikipedia"},{"date": "2009-02-01T00:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Even people who have not heard of Varanasi have heard of it - it's just that they know it by its other name, Benares. That's how it was referred to by the three photographers - Raghubir Singh, William Gedney and Michael Ackerman - whose pictures of this amazing place made me want to go there in the first place. But as anyone who has visited India's holiest Hindu city will know, there is a dearth of nice places to stay. The Taj Ganges, on the outskirts of town, is sedate (if rather anodyne) and any tranquillity stored up there will be devoured by the nerve-shredding, 40-minute journey down to the Ganges. Most of the places on the ghats, on the banks of the mighty river itself, are for backpackers. Which means the only place to stay is the Ganges View at Assi Ghat - essentially a large family home, half of which has been converted into a guesthouse. Assi is a mile or so upstream from Manikarnika burning ghat - where families bring their dead to be cremated - and the journey there from the hotel - on foot or by boat - is a dream of beauty, flecked with traces of nightmare.Aside from the location, the biggest attraction of the hotel is the huge terrace - prone to occasional monkey raids - overlooking the Ganges. There's a terrific bookshop a few doors away. The owner, Shashank, is a connoisseur of Indian classical music, and concerts are sometimes held on the terrace. It's lovely to be able to step out of the hotel straight into the intensity of life (and death) on the ghats, and even lovelier to be able to step back inside this refuge when your senses have been thoroughly overwhelmed - as they are approximately every 15 minutes.\u2022 A double room costs from 3,000 rupees (\u00a341) (www.hotelgangesview.com). You can fly, but an atmospheric way to travel is by train. The Shriv Ganga Express, an overnight sleeper from Delhi, costs \u00a317 (www.seat61.com). Geoff Dyer's new novel, Jeff in Venice, Death in Varanasi, will be published by Canongate in April", "tags": ["India holidays", "Hotels", "Travel"], "title": "Geoff Dyer travels to Varanasi in India"},{"date": "2009-01-22T16:04:46Z", "country": "india", "content": "Indian scientists have launched an 'agricultural Wikipedia' to act as an online repository of agricultural information in the country.The government-backed initiative, Agropedia, was launched last week (12 January).It aims to disseminate crop- and region-specific information to farmers and agricultural extension workers \u2014 who communicate agricultural information and research findings to farmers \u2014 and provide information for students and researchers.The website currently contains information on nine crops \u2014 rice, wheat, chickpea, pigeon pea, vegetable pea, lychee, sugarcane, groundnut and sorghum \u2014 but its creators say that all agriculture-related topics will be eventually covered.Content will be continually added and validated through review and analysis by invited agricultural researchers, in a manner similar to that used by Wikipedia and using open source tools, says V. Balaji, head of knowledge management and sharing with the International Crop Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT), a partner in the project.The site also houses blogs and forums where anyone can provide and exchange knowledge.The 85 million-rupee (around US$17 million) project is being implemented over 30 months and is backed by the National Agricultural Innovation Project, a six-year government programme intended to modernise agriculture.The World Bank and the Indian government have provided the funding for the project and six Indian agricultural and technology institutions are partners in the project, providing information and technological expertise.India is considered a global leader in promoting innovative ways of using technology for farm and rural outreach, Balaji told SciDev.Net.In the last five years close to 12,000 information technology-enabled rural information centres \u2014 some with Internet access \u2014 have been established but there is a lack of accessible agricultural information, he says.It is hoped that even where farmers have no access to the Internet, the Agropedia information can be used as a basis for radio plays, for example, says Balaji.Agropedia's lead architect, T. V. Prabhakar of the Indian Institute of Technology in Kanpur, initially envisioned the website as the equivalent of Wikipedia for global agriculture three years ago, but for now it will concentrate on India-specific information.He says that the initial phase of the project \u2014 developing a mechanism to manage the vast repository of knowledge \u2014 is nearly completed, and the next step is to develop ways to disseminate the knowledge.Trials will soon begin in six locations around the country.\u2022 This article was shared by our content partner SciDev, part of the Guardian Environment Network", "tags": ["Food", "Environment"], "title": "M. Sreelata on India's new agricultural Wikipedia"},{"date": "2009-01-22T00:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The 200 million people in India who are officially hungry were probably not that interested in the successful launch of the country's uncrewed moon mission Chandrayaan-1 in November .And with India 66th out of 88 in the UN's Global Hunger Index, the forthcoming sell-off of India's 3G spectrum is likely to generate even less excitement.More than 70% of Indians live in rural areas; and that is where most of the 200 million hungry people live. Though Mahatma Gandhi once said \"the soul of India resides in rural India\", its mobile subscribers definitely do not. Untapped gapThe latest figures from the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRIA) say mobile penetration in rural areas is less than 13%, compared with 73% in urban areas, a gap that threatens to hold back the development of India as a global superpower.But there are hopes that 3G will address this imbalance. Vishal Gondal, the CEO of Indiagames, one of the country's biggest mobile games publishers, hopes the next stage of mobile networks will open up this untapped market.\"2G networks helped spread voice and SMS across rural India and has transformed that society. 3G will do the same by accelerating the spread of high-speed broadband in rural India. 3G cards will mean such services as e-education, video, e-governance and telemedicine that were not reaching rural India because of lack of bandwidth will see a surge,\" he says.Mobile penetration matters to any would-be superpower. In December 2008 a TRIA paper on India surmised that a 1% higher mobile subscription rate would mean a \u00a3140 rise in GDP per capita.Some global analysts are even more bullish about prospects for rural India. McKinsey Global predicts that in 2028 the rural Indian market will be larger than those in South Korea and Canada today. It puts the size of the 2028 rural market at $577bn - more than four times the size of today's urban Indian market.Furthermore, as mobile penetration in urban areas becomes saturated, operators have launched extensive marketing programmes to attract rural takeup.And the market is booming. TRIA says India's operators added 10.35m new mobile accounts in November, taking the total to 336.1m. That's a rise of 38% on the preceding 12 months and almost 300m more than there are landlines in India.Such surges in subscribers have also led to a lack of spectrum for the existing big operators. According to a source at one of India's largest operators, 3G licence-winners are more likely to use the spectrum to service future 2.5G subscribers.Sudhir Gupta, who co-wrote a TRIA report on how to attract 100 million more mobile broadband subscribers in rural India, says 3G will increase mobile broadband to rural subscribers -but these services will initially launch in urban areas.\"The forthcoming 3G launch will help to provide faster provision of broadband and customised data-centric applications to rural subscribers. However, the operators will start to roll out their 3G networks to high ARPU [average revenue per user] subscribers who reside in the urban areas,\" he says.Smallest shacksOperator advertising is everywhere in India, not just in big cities. On the shacks in the smallest villages, Airtel, Vodafone and Reliance signs are ubiquitous.And the Indian government seems committed to opening up this market. Telecom service providers have to pay 5% of gross revenues into a Universal Service Obligation fund for rural initiatives.Other government-supported policies include forgoing the need for permission to build mobile masts up to 40m tall.The government is also considering subsidised rural-only MVNOs (mobile virtual network operators), while the service providers report that of 593,731 villages, 407,112 have mobile coverage.Already, the government has issued licences to two state-owned operators, BSNL and MTNL, with the latter launching trial 3G services last month. Other operators ready to join in the stampede will look to grab licences in the \"circles\" of urban areas such as Mumbai and Delhi and think about the rural areas later - and therein lies the problem.Successful 3G operators will concentrate on areas where there is already high mobile penetration. There are billions of pounds involved in setting up 3G structures in the most accessible of regions, let alone the countryside.And for villages without a regular electricity supply, mobile users are more concerned with longer battery life than power-sapping snazzy features.So the operators are going to do 3G their way and will use the opportunity to increase their ARPU in the major cities - and that's after they top up their subscriber base with the extra spectrum.For India's rural community - in spite of the government's efforts - it may be some time before they attain the same services as urban users. In fact, they may as well whistle at the moon.", "tags": ["Mobile phones", "Telecoms", "Technology", "Telecommunications industry", "Business", "India", "World news"], "title": "Indian villagers will have to wait to benefit from the 3G network"},{"date": "2009-02-01T00:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Even people who have not heard of Varanasi have heard of it - it's just that they know it by its other name, Benares. That's how it was referred to by the three photographers - Raghubir Singh, William Gedney and Michael Ackerman - whose pictures of this amazing place made me want to go there in the first place. But as anyone who has visited India's holiest Hindu city will know, there is a dearth of nice places to stay. The Taj Ganges, on the outskirts of town, is sedate (if rather anodyne) and any tranquillity stored up there will be devoured by the nerve-shredding, 40-minute journey down to the Ganges. Most of the places on the ghats, on the banks of the mighty river itself, are for backpackers. Which means the only place to stay is the Ganges View at Assi Ghat - essentially a large family home, half of which has been converted into a guesthouse. Assi is a mile or so upstream from Manikarnika burning ghat - where families bring their dead to be cremated - and the journey there from the hotel - on foot or by boat - is a dream of beauty, flecked with traces of nightmare.Aside from the location, the biggest attraction of the hotel is the huge terrace - prone to occasional monkey raids - overlooking the Ganges. There's a terrific bookshop a few doors away. The owner, Shashank, is a connoisseur of Indian classical music, and concerts are sometimes held on the terrace. It's lovely to be able to step out of the hotel straight into the intensity of life (and death) on the ghats, and even lovelier to be able to step back inside this refuge when your senses have been thoroughly overwhelmed - as they are approximately every 15 minutes.\u2022 A double room costs from 3,000 rupees (\u00a341) (www.hotelgangesview.com). You can fly, but an atmospheric way to travel is by train. The Shriv Ganga Express, an overnight sleeper from Delhi, costs \u00a317 (www.seat61.com). Geoff Dyer's new novel, Jeff in Venice, Death in Varanasi, will be published by Canongate in April", "tags": ["India holidays", "Hotels", "Travel"], "title": "Geoff Dyer travels to Varanasi in India"},{"date": "2009-01-22T16:04:46Z", "country": "india", "content": "Indian scientists have launched an 'agricultural Wikipedia' to act as an online repository of agricultural information in the country.The government-backed initiative, Agropedia, was launched last week (12 January).It aims to disseminate crop- and region-specific information to farmers and agricultural extension workers \u2014 who communicate agricultural information and research findings to farmers \u2014 and provide information for students and researchers.The website currently contains information on nine crops \u2014 rice, wheat, chickpea, pigeon pea, vegetable pea, lychee, sugarcane, groundnut and sorghum \u2014 but its creators say that all agriculture-related topics will be eventually covered.Content will be continually added and validated through review and analysis by invited agricultural researchers, in a manner similar to that used by Wikipedia and using open source tools, says V. Balaji, head of knowledge management and sharing with the International Crop Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT), a partner in the project.The site also houses blogs and forums where anyone can provide and exchange knowledge.The 85 million-rupee (around US$17 million) project is being implemented over 30 months and is backed by the National Agricultural Innovation Project, a six-year government programme intended to modernise agriculture.The World Bank and the Indian government have provided the funding for the project and six Indian agricultural and technology institutions are partners in the project, providing information and technological expertise.India is considered a global leader in promoting innovative ways of using technology for farm and rural outreach, Balaji told SciDev.Net.In the last five years close to 12,000 information technology-enabled rural information centres \u2014 some with Internet access \u2014 have been established but there is a lack of accessible agricultural information, he says.It is hoped that even where farmers have no access to the Internet, the Agropedia information can be used as a basis for radio plays, for example, says Balaji.Agropedia's lead architect, T. V. Prabhakar of the Indian Institute of Technology in Kanpur, initially envisioned the website as the equivalent of Wikipedia for global agriculture three years ago, but for now it will concentrate on India-specific information.He says that the initial phase of the project \u2014 developing a mechanism to manage the vast repository of knowledge \u2014 is nearly completed, and the next step is to develop ways to disseminate the knowledge.Trials will soon begin in six locations around the country.\u2022 This article was shared by our content partner SciDev, part of the Guardian Environment Network", "tags": ["Food", "Environment"], "title": "M. Sreelata on India's new agricultural Wikipedia"},{"date": "2009-01-22T00:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The 200 million people in India who are officially hungry were probably not that interested in the successful launch of the country's uncrewed moon mission Chandrayaan-1 in November .And with India 66th out of 88 in the UN's Global Hunger Index, the forthcoming sell-off of India's 3G spectrum is likely to generate even less excitement.More than 70% of Indians live in rural areas; and that is where most of the 200 million hungry people live. Though Mahatma Gandhi once said \"the soul of India resides in rural India\", its mobile subscribers definitely do not. Untapped gapThe latest figures from the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRIA) say mobile penetration in rural areas is less than 13%, compared with 73% in urban areas, a gap that threatens to hold back the development of India as a global superpower.But there are hopes that 3G will address this imbalance. Vishal Gondal, the CEO of Indiagames, one of the country's biggest mobile games publishers, hopes the next stage of mobile networks will open up this untapped market.\"2G networks helped spread voice and SMS across rural India and has transformed that society. 3G will do the same by accelerating the spread of high-speed broadband in rural India. 3G cards will mean such services as e-education, video, e-governance and telemedicine that were not reaching rural India because of lack of bandwidth will see a surge,\" he says.Mobile penetration matters to any would-be superpower. In December 2008 a TRIA paper on India surmised that a 1% higher mobile subscription rate would mean a \u00a3140 rise in GDP per capita.Some global analysts are even more bullish about prospects for rural India. McKinsey Global predicts that in 2028 the rural Indian market will be larger than those in South Korea and Canada today. It puts the size of the 2028 rural market at $577bn - more than four times the size of today's urban Indian market.Furthermore, as mobile penetration in urban areas becomes saturated, operators have launched extensive marketing programmes to attract rural takeup.And the market is booming. TRIA says India's operators added 10.35m new mobile accounts in November, taking the total to 336.1m. That's a rise of 38% on the preceding 12 months and almost 300m more than there are landlines in India.Such surges in subscribers have also led to a lack of spectrum for the existing big operators. According to a source at one of India's largest operators, 3G licence-winners are more likely to use the spectrum to service future 2.5G subscribers.Sudhir Gupta, who co-wrote a TRIA report on how to attract 100 million more mobile broadband subscribers in rural India, says 3G will increase mobile broadband to rural subscribers -but these services will initially launch in urban areas.\"The forthcoming 3G launch will help to provide faster provision of broadband and customised data-centric applications to rural subscribers. However, the operators will start to roll out their 3G networks to high ARPU [average revenue per user] subscribers who reside in the urban areas,\" he says.Smallest shacksOperator advertising is everywhere in India, not just in big cities. On the shacks in the smallest villages, Airtel, Vodafone and Reliance signs are ubiquitous.And the Indian government seems committed to opening up this market. Telecom service providers have to pay 5% of gross revenues into a Universal Service Obligation fund for rural initiatives.Other government-supported policies include forgoing the need for permission to build mobile masts up to 40m tall.The government is also considering subsidised rural-only MVNOs (mobile virtual network operators), while the service providers report that of 593,731 villages, 407,112 have mobile coverage.Already, the government has issued licences to two state-owned operators, BSNL and MTNL, with the latter launching trial 3G services last month. Other operators ready to join in the stampede will look to grab licences in the \"circles\" of urban areas such as Mumbai and Delhi and think about the rural areas later - and therein lies the problem.Successful 3G operators will concentrate on areas where there is already high mobile penetration. There are billions of pounds involved in setting up 3G structures in the most accessible of regions, let alone the countryside.And for villages without a regular electricity supply, mobile users are more concerned with longer battery life than power-sapping snazzy features.So the operators are going to do 3G their way and will use the opportunity to increase their ARPU in the major cities - and that's after they top up their subscriber base with the extra spectrum.For India's rural community - in spite of the government's efforts - it may be some time before they attain the same services as urban users. In fact, they may as well whistle at the moon.", "tags": ["Mobile phones", "Telecoms", "Technology", "Telecommunications industry", "Business", "India", "World news"], "title": "Indian villagers will have to wait to benefit from the 3G network"},{"date": "2009-03-23T13:13:05Z", "country": "india", "content": "India's Tata group has announced that the world's cheapest car, the Nano, will roll out of its car plant with a price tag of just 100,000 rupees - \u00a31,350 - and will be exported to richer nations, beginning with Europe, in two years.Ratan Tata, chairman of Tata Motors, said the car was originally designed to bring motoring to India's masses, but he was taken aback by the considerable interest in the west.He said: \"Initially we did not plan for this product to be marketed anywhere else but India or developing countries \u2026 I felt that the niche did not exist in the west. But now the present economic scene makes it somewhat more relevant in price.\"The basic model has few frills, not even air-conditioning to deal with intense Indian summers. But Tata executives are convinced that with India's improving road network and a rising middle class the company could sell a million Nanos a year.The emergence of the Nano has caused concern among green campaigners, who have warned of an environmental nightmare on India's roads. Although there are just 5m cars in use in India \u2011 only seven in every 1,000 people own a car \u2011 the roads are clogged with dozens of other vehicles.The company expects to sell 100,000 cars this year before switching production to its new plant in Gujarat, which is capable of producing 250,000 units a year.Mr Tata said the car would be the greenest in India. The four-door, five-seater Nano has a 624cc engine at the rear, which delivers 23.6km per litre, and has a CO2 emissions rating of 101 g/km (grams of carbon dioxide per kilometre driven).The Nano is being redesigned for Europe and the United States. Rigorous safety rules in the west mean the car must be fitted with airbags and its rear end strengthened.Tata said: \"We have many of the components ready ... It's just early days, but in Europe we will be ready in 2011. The United States a bit longer.\"He added that unlike India, where affordable private transport will become a reality with the Nano, the western market will be different. \u00a0\"I had the Indian family in mind when I designed this car, where four people travel together by motorbike. I thought they could travel more safely by car. I think in the United States [the Nano] would be for younger people who want a low-cost car.\"\u00b7 This article was amended on Tuesday March 24 2009 to correct an editing mistake . Tata's car plant is no longer in West Bengal. ", "tags": ["Tata", "India", "World news", "Motoring", "Motoring", "Travel and transport", "Greenhouse gas emissions"], "title": "India launches 'world's cheapest car'"},{"date": "2009-02-01T00:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Even people who have not heard of Varanasi have heard of it - it's just that they know it by its other name, Benares. That's how it was referred to by the three photographers - Raghubir Singh, William Gedney and Michael Ackerman - whose pictures of this amazing place made me want to go there in the first place. But as anyone who has visited India's holiest Hindu city will know, there is a dearth of nice places to stay. The Taj Ganges, on the outskirts of town, is sedate (if rather anodyne) and any tranquillity stored up there will be devoured by the nerve-shredding, 40-minute journey down to the Ganges. Most of the places on the ghats, on the banks of the mighty river itself, are for backpackers. Which means the only place to stay is the Ganges View at Assi Ghat - essentially a large family home, half of which has been converted into a guesthouse. Assi is a mile or so upstream from Manikarnika burning ghat - where families bring their dead to be cremated - and the journey there from the hotel - on foot or by boat - is a dream of beauty, flecked with traces of nightmare.Aside from the location, the biggest attraction of the hotel is the huge terrace - prone to occasional monkey raids - overlooking the Ganges. There's a terrific bookshop a few doors away. The owner, Shashank, is a connoisseur of Indian classical music, and concerts are sometimes held on the terrace. It's lovely to be able to step out of the hotel straight into the intensity of life (and death) on the ghats, and even lovelier to be able to step back inside this refuge when your senses have been thoroughly overwhelmed - as they are approximately every 15 minutes.\u2022 A double room costs from 3,000 rupees (\u00a341) (www.hotelgangesview.com). You can fly, but an atmospheric way to travel is by train. The Shriv Ganga Express, an overnight sleeper from Delhi, costs \u00a317 (www.seat61.com). Geoff Dyer's new novel, Jeff in Venice, Death in Varanasi, will be published by Canongate in April", "tags": ["India holidays", "Hotels", "Travel"], "title": "Geoff Dyer travels to Varanasi in India"},{"date": "2009-01-22T16:04:46Z", "country": "india", "content": "Indian scientists have launched an 'agricultural Wikipedia' to act as an online repository of agricultural information in the country.The government-backed initiative, Agropedia, was launched last week (12 January).It aims to disseminate crop- and region-specific information to farmers and agricultural extension workers \u2014 who communicate agricultural information and research findings to farmers \u2014 and provide information for students and researchers.The website currently contains information on nine crops \u2014 rice, wheat, chickpea, pigeon pea, vegetable pea, lychee, sugarcane, groundnut and sorghum \u2014 but its creators say that all agriculture-related topics will be eventually covered.Content will be continually added and validated through review and analysis by invited agricultural researchers, in a manner similar to that used by Wikipedia and using open source tools, says V. Balaji, head of knowledge management and sharing with the International Crop Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT), a partner in the project.The site also houses blogs and forums where anyone can provide and exchange knowledge.The 85 million-rupee (around US$17 million) project is being implemented over 30 months and is backed by the National Agricultural Innovation Project, a six-year government programme intended to modernise agriculture.The World Bank and the Indian government have provided the funding for the project and six Indian agricultural and technology institutions are partners in the project, providing information and technological expertise.India is considered a global leader in promoting innovative ways of using technology for farm and rural outreach, Balaji told SciDev.Net.In the last five years close to 12,000 information technology-enabled rural information centres \u2014 some with Internet access \u2014 have been established but there is a lack of accessible agricultural information, he says.It is hoped that even where farmers have no access to the Internet, the Agropedia information can be used as a basis for radio plays, for example, says Balaji.Agropedia's lead architect, T. V. Prabhakar of the Indian Institute of Technology in Kanpur, initially envisioned the website as the equivalent of Wikipedia for global agriculture three years ago, but for now it will concentrate on India-specific information.He says that the initial phase of the project \u2014 developing a mechanism to manage the vast repository of knowledge \u2014 is nearly completed, and the next step is to develop ways to disseminate the knowledge.Trials will soon begin in six locations around the country.\u2022 This article was shared by our content partner SciDev, part of the Guardian Environment Network", "tags": ["Food", "Environment"], "title": "M. Sreelata on India's new agricultural Wikipedia"},{"date": "2009-01-22T00:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The 200 million people in India who are officially hungry were probably not that interested in the successful launch of the country's uncrewed moon mission Chandrayaan-1 in November .And with India 66th out of 88 in the UN's Global Hunger Index, the forthcoming sell-off of India's 3G spectrum is likely to generate even less excitement.More than 70% of Indians live in rural areas; and that is where most of the 200 million hungry people live. Though Mahatma Gandhi once said \"the soul of India resides in rural India\", its mobile subscribers definitely do not. Untapped gapThe latest figures from the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRIA) say mobile penetration in rural areas is less than 13%, compared with 73% in urban areas, a gap that threatens to hold back the development of India as a global superpower.But there are hopes that 3G will address this imbalance. Vishal Gondal, the CEO of Indiagames, one of the country's biggest mobile games publishers, hopes the next stage of mobile networks will open up this untapped market.\"2G networks helped spread voice and SMS across rural India and has transformed that society. 3G will do the same by accelerating the spread of high-speed broadband in rural India. 3G cards will mean such services as e-education, video, e-governance and telemedicine that were not reaching rural India because of lack of bandwidth will see a surge,\" he says.Mobile penetration matters to any would-be superpower. In December 2008 a TRIA paper on India surmised that a 1% higher mobile subscription rate would mean a \u00a3140 rise in GDP per capita.Some global analysts are even more bullish about prospects for rural India. McKinsey Global predicts that in 2028 the rural Indian market will be larger than those in South Korea and Canada today. It puts the size of the 2028 rural market at $577bn - more than four times the size of today's urban Indian market.Furthermore, as mobile penetration in urban areas becomes saturated, operators have launched extensive marketing programmes to attract rural takeup.And the market is booming. TRIA says India's operators added 10.35m new mobile accounts in November, taking the total to 336.1m. That's a rise of 38% on the preceding 12 months and almost 300m more than there are landlines in India.Such surges in subscribers have also led to a lack of spectrum for the existing big operators. According to a source at one of India's largest operators, 3G licence-winners are more likely to use the spectrum to service future 2.5G subscribers.Sudhir Gupta, who co-wrote a TRIA report on how to attract 100 million more mobile broadband subscribers in rural India, says 3G will increase mobile broadband to rural subscribers -but these services will initially launch in urban areas.\"The forthcoming 3G launch will help to provide faster provision of broadband and customised data-centric applications to rural subscribers. However, the operators will start to roll out their 3G networks to high ARPU [average revenue per user] subscribers who reside in the urban areas,\" he says.Smallest shacksOperator advertising is everywhere in India, not just in big cities. On the shacks in the smallest villages, Airtel, Vodafone and Reliance signs are ubiquitous.And the Indian government seems committed to opening up this market. Telecom service providers have to pay 5% of gross revenues into a Universal Service Obligation fund for rural initiatives.Other government-supported policies include forgoing the need for permission to build mobile masts up to 40m tall.The government is also considering subsidised rural-only MVNOs (mobile virtual network operators), while the service providers report that of 593,731 villages, 407,112 have mobile coverage.Already, the government has issued licences to two state-owned operators, BSNL and MTNL, with the latter launching trial 3G services last month. Other operators ready to join in the stampede will look to grab licences in the \"circles\" of urban areas such as Mumbai and Delhi and think about the rural areas later - and therein lies the problem.Successful 3G operators will concentrate on areas where there is already high mobile penetration. There are billions of pounds involved in setting up 3G structures in the most accessible of regions, let alone the countryside.And for villages without a regular electricity supply, mobile users are more concerned with longer battery life than power-sapping snazzy features.So the operators are going to do 3G their way and will use the opportunity to increase their ARPU in the major cities - and that's after they top up their subscriber base with the extra spectrum.For India's rural community - in spite of the government's efforts - it may be some time before they attain the same services as urban users. In fact, they may as well whistle at the moon.", "tags": ["Mobile phones", "Telecoms", "Technology", "Telecommunications industry", "Business", "India", "World news"], "title": "Indian villagers will have to wait to benefit from the 3G network"},{"date": "2009-03-23T13:13:05Z", "country": "india", "content": "India's Tata group has announced that the world's cheapest car, the Nano, will roll out of its car plant with a price tag of just 100,000 rupees - \u00a31,350 - and will be exported to richer nations, beginning with Europe, in two years.Ratan Tata, chairman of Tata Motors, said the car was originally designed to bring motoring to India's masses, but he was taken aback by the considerable interest in the west.He said: \"Initially we did not plan for this product to be marketed anywhere else but India or developing countries \u2026 I felt that the niche did not exist in the west. But now the present economic scene makes it somewhat more relevant in price.\"The basic model has few frills, not even air-conditioning to deal with intense Indian summers. But Tata executives are convinced that with India's improving road network and a rising middle class the company could sell a million Nanos a year.The emergence of the Nano has caused concern among green campaigners, who have warned of an environmental nightmare on India's roads. Although there are just 5m cars in use in India \u2011 only seven in every 1,000 people own a car \u2011 the roads are clogged with dozens of other vehicles.The company expects to sell 100,000 cars this year before switching production to its new plant in Gujarat, which is capable of producing 250,000 units a year.Mr Tata said the car would be the greenest in India. The four-door, five-seater Nano has a 624cc engine at the rear, which delivers 23.6km per litre, and has a CO2 emissions rating of 101 g/km (grams of carbon dioxide per kilometre driven).The Nano is being redesigned for Europe and the United States. Rigorous safety rules in the west mean the car must be fitted with airbags and its rear end strengthened.Tata said: \"We have many of the components ready ... It's just early days, but in Europe we will be ready in 2011. The United States a bit longer.\"He added that unlike India, where affordable private transport will become a reality with the Nano, the western market will be different. \u00a0\"I had the Indian family in mind when I designed this car, where four people travel together by motorbike. I thought they could travel more safely by car. I think in the United States [the Nano] would be for younger people who want a low-cost car.\"\u00b7 This article was amended on Tuesday March 24 2009 to correct an editing mistake . Tata's car plant is no longer in West Bengal. ", "tags": ["Tata", "India", "World news", "Motoring", "Motoring", "Travel and transport", "Greenhouse gas emissions"], "title": "India launches 'world's cheapest car'"},{"date": "2009-03-13T10:30:01Z", "country": "india", "content": "The world's biggest electorate goes to the polls next month \u2013 but the 700 million voters won't decide who runs India. Instead they will elect 543 representatives, belonging to a score or more of parties, who after much horse-trading will then pick a leader.Of course in parliamentary democracy there is no direct election for the prime minister. The paradox for India is that the casting votes belong to the unelected. Families run most of India's political parties \u2013 famously, India's ruling Congress party is Gandhi personal property. The issue of ownership was dramatically illustrated in 2004 when Sonia Gandhi crisscrossed the country as the Congress party's prime ministerial candidate. When she unexpectedly won, Mrs Gandhi stepped aside for her loyal aide Manmohan Singh \u2013 a respected economist who has never won an election \u2013 to take office. A shrewd operator, Mrs Gandhi retained power, wielded from behind the throne.The exceptions to politics as family business are the two major opposition parties \u2013 the Bharatiya Janata party and the communists. But faceless men operating in the shadows decide the leaderships of these parties. The BJP cannot easily pick a leader not approved by the central command of the Hindu nationalist movement, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, and the communists take their orders from an unelected politbureau.Because members of political parties cannot stake a claim to the leadership of the major national parties (the Congress and the BJP) in India, people leave and create their own outfits drawing support from regional powerbases.The other option for ambitious politicians is to start up on their own \u2013 scooping up votes from the disenchanted. This strategy works best on the local level. The self-styled champion of the lowest castes, Mayawati, is essentially a provincial politician, albeit in India's most populous state, Uttar Pradesh.Mayawati's rise is remarkable given that she hails from the deepest trenches of Indian society: the untouchable caste. Although the Indian constitution abolished untouchability \u2013 essentially barring the lowest castes from wells and temples \u2013 it is rampant in village and small-town India. However, Mayawati is a troubled figure, mired in claims of corruption and an outsized cult of personality that would embarrass an eastern European communist. Her only political ideology appears to be the pursuit of power.With half a million villages and 60% of people living off the land, India's politics are rural and often very local. Corruption in politics and the inability of the poor to get a better deal remain concerns. But from the ground up it is the lack of roads, water, electricity and schools as well as complex caste issues that dominate politics.This again makes the national parties, who are run from the top down, appear irrelevant. Unless they have exceptional local candidates, the big ticket draws are the party leaders who, thanks to India's linguistic diversity, often cannot mobilise people in their own language. These trends have an unyielding logic. Since 1989, no single party has been able to run India. As national parties shrink, the space is filled by regional parties. With an ever-proliferating array of parochial politicians, the only way to gain power is to compete for votes locally and co-operate nationally to gain power. The last two governments, both of which lasted a full term, have been anchored by the two national parties. However most think that their executive strength has been sapped by bickering between partners. The caravan of Indian government moves only as fast as its slowest member \u2013 which is very slowly indeed.This year could see the rise of a third force, a grouping of smaller regional parties who would bandy together to form a government. This would only happen if the two national parties lost so heavily they could no longer dominate the parliament. Only the communists and perhaps Mayawati could win big enough to provide the third front with the numbers for government. Because it would be collection of regional interests, settling big national questions is likely to take even longer than it does today.Coalition governments are by their very nature acts of political expediency. Given that India's myriad development challenges \u2013 poverty, illiteracy, ruinous healthcare provision, moribund farming \u2013 occur at a time when as the Indian economy has spluttered, there may be good reasons to believe that whoever wins the elections might consider themselves losers in the long run.", "tags": ["India", "World news"], "title": "Randeep Ramesh: India is facing political slowdown"},{"date": "2009-05-08T23:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Diana Quick is telling me about the morning of her father's death. The actor, famous as Julia Flyte in the 1981 TV series Brideshead Revisited, was an 18-year-old student at Oxford Univeristy. Leonard Quick, a prosperous dentist, was 50. He was waking up in the family house in Kent when he had a heart attack. \"He was in his prime,\" his daughter, now 62, tells me. She is speaking softly, in a clipped voice. \"It was a coronary. He was taken to hospital and made comfortable; the belief was that they'd got it in time. But he had a second attack, and died.\"This moment, Quick says, marked a huge turning-point in her life. Before her father's death, she had led a charmed life. She had got into Oxford at 17 to study English literature and was not only beautiful and clever, but funny, too - she would soon be in The Oxford Line, a comedy revue, with John Sergeant, Simon Brett and Nigel Rees. She epitomised the 60s - one of those mini-skirted girls who were the first generation to go on the pill. She even knew Mick Jagger. On the morning of her father's death, Diana Quick was cycling, on a pink bicycle, to a lecture by Isaiah Berlin.When she got back to her college, Quick found a note in her pigeonhole. It said: \"Contact your tutor IMMEDIATELY.\" Her tutor, Kathleen Lea, told her to sit down. Everything that had happened before this moment had gone right for Diana Quick; later, her friends would tell her that she had been so confident that she was \"hard to take\". Her close friend Hermione Lee, also an Oxford student, would say: \"You were insufferable, you know.\"Kathleen Lea told her what had happened. Stunned, Quick made her way back home, to the heart of her grieving family. That day, she says, was a blur. She arrived at her parents' - now, suddenly, her mother's - big Edwardian villa on the outskirts of Dartford to be met by her mother, Joan, her older sister, Julie, and her brothers, Clive and Richard. They went together to see Leonard's body. Quick remembers that his ears were \"blackish-blue\" with pooled blood, and that this was the thing that made her sure, beyond any doubt, that he was really dead.\"You don't consider it, do you?\" she says. \"You feel immortal and you feel those about you are. Very few people I knew had died. I didn't really think about getting old and dying.\" There is a silence, while we both think the same thought. Leonard Quick was not old. \"He was 50,\" she says. \"From where I am now, that seems cruelly young.\"But his death was hugely significant in another way. Until that moment, his daughter had known virtually nothing about his early life. And now she was full of questions. For one thing, his funeral was to be at a Catholic church. She hadn't known he was a Catholic. She knew he had grown up in India, arrived in England at the age of 17 and never went home. She had met his father and stepmother, her grandparents, only twice, briefly, even though they had moved from the subcontinent to Surrey. She hadn't really questioned the fact that the two senior Quicks, Bertie and Nora, had never visited their son's house. Their names were hardly mentioned. Why?\"I had an intimation that there was something I didn't know,\" says Quick. \"It was never discussed. My father was a very warm, gregarious, sociable person who had many interests. He lived his life very much in the present, full of activities and the next project. He had many hobbies. He was not given to retrospection. There are lots of things that I would have wanted to know about his life, that I suddenly couldn't ask. And my mother blocked any questions about it - she either didn't know, or she wasn't telling.\" I am talking to Quick in the bar of a London hotel across from the Thames; she says she has spent the last 10 years looking for the answers to the questions her mother wouldn't answer. The result of those 10 years is A Tug on the Thread, one of the best family memoirs I've read in a long time. Quick - who, as a young actor, was photographed in French Vogue by Cecil Beaton and was once described as \"the most beautiful woman in the world\" - is still good-looking. She is dressed in practical trousers and a white shirt. The impression I get is of a fierce intellect just beginning to blossom - she spent years playing alluring, mysterious women, then years playing slightly older women who were cracking up, and then, as she puts it, a series of \"bonking grannies\".She has been married, once, to the actor Kenneth Cranham, and had a long relationship, now over, with the actor Bill Nighy, with whom she has a 24-year-old daughter, Mary. Her divorce from Cranham was amicable: \"We went Dutch on the divorce; it cost us \u00a316 each.\" There was no acrimony over the splitting up of household items - on the contrary, it was all \"No - you take it.\" Later, she introduced Cranham to Charlotte Cornwell, with whom he had a daughter. Although, she says, the two have split up, her daughter with Nighy and Cranham's daughter with Cornwell have an almost-sisterly relationship. Quick seems uncomfortable talking about Nighy. All she will say is that they were together and now they are not. And that she lives in the house she shared with Nighy \"with friends - it's a very good arrangement\". And that a married man propositioned her recently. \"He explained to me that his parents, who were public figures, had a 19th-century marriage. I said: 'What does that mean?' And he said: 'You get the heir and the spare, and you do what you like.' And I said: 'Well, I'm not old-fashioned enough for that.'\"Still, she's quite bohemian and laid-back. But her characters are usually uptight and controlling: women who are obsessed with propriety and who cut off their families. For instance, there was Eva in the Diane Samuels play Kindertransport, a Jewish woman whose mother had saved her from the Nazis by putting her on a train bound for England. Later, when the mother reappears in Eva's life, she rejects her - because, as Quick says, \"the cost of re-opening those old wounds is too high\". Then there was Murielle in Simone de Beauvoir's play The Woman Destroyed - a tragic, spiteful bitch who alienates her husbands and children. And Mrs Alving in Ibsen's Ghosts, who has spent her life trying to cover up the unsavoury facts about her husband, and destroys herself in the process. And, of course, Julia Flyte, who, like her father (played by Laurence Olivier in the television series), spends her life denying her Catholic faith, only to be pulled back towards it by, in Evelyn Waugh's phrase, \"a twitch upon the thread\". This, of course, is why Quick calls her book A Tug on the Thread. She came from a family steeped in denial, and it is this denial that she has been playing out ever since. For the book, she traced her family history back to her great-grandfather, Christopher Quick, who enlisted in the army as a teenager and sailed to India in the early 1870s. He had a drink problem and spent some time in jail. At the age of 32, he married an Anglo-Indian woman - someone whose parentage included both English and Indian forebears. The couple had three Anglo-Indian children, one of whom was Bertie, the grandfather who ended up in Surrey but was never mentioned in Diana's house.Bertie Quick did well. He became a dental surgeon in the foothills of the Himalayas, and also a general surgeon who patched up soldiers wounded in skirmishes on the north-west frontier. He had three children, one of whom was Leonard, and two houses. But, as an Anglo-Indian, he was never admitted to the pukka clubs - he would always be outside the pale. However, he had a plan: he would encourage Leonard to study dentistry in England, so that when his son came back home, Bertie could join forces with him in a newly anglicised practice. It would be enough, just, to bring the Quicks back from the pale, and possibly enough to satisfy Bertie's horribly snobbish second wife, Nora.But it was not to be. When Leonard went to London to study dentistry at Guy's hospital, he fell in love with Joan, Diana's mother. He didn't want to come back. And so began a titanic struggle. Bertie cut off Leonard's money; Leonard nearly went hungry; Leonard could see no way of completing his studies, and therefore becoming a dentist and able to marry Joan. But Joan's father lent Leonard the money he needed to get himself through his course. Leonard married Joan, and was cut off by his family in India. Later, as the Raj began to crumble, Bertie and Nora moved to England, where they had never lived. Leonard and Bertie never spoke. Bertie died in 1966; he outlived Leonard by six months. Neither Diana nor her siblings have any memories of Bertie at Leonard's funeral.One of the things that Quick has done so well is to show how the forces of snobbery and racism work their way through families, generation after generation. She has also written a book that describes the social conditions in the Raj better than almost any other I have read. She talked to many Anglo-Indians, some of whom \"passed for white\"; one man would only speak under a cloak of secrecy. He lived in the home counties and everybody thought he was English. \"He thought his friends would look at him differently,\" says Quick - and he might have been right. \"He kept saying: 'Let sleeping dogs lie.'\"She misses her father. If he was still alive, he'd be in his 90s now. \"I'd have had a companion,\" she says, \"because we always did get along so well. But if he hadn't died, I don't think I'd have got to know my mother in the way that I did.\" She spent a lot of time with her mother - years of mother-and-daughter holidays. Joan Quick died three years ago, of Parkinson's disease, in her early 90s.She remembers with huge fondness her childhood home: the big villa with bow windows and a balcony added by Joan's father. \"It was very warm and welcoming; there were lots of nooks and crannies. There was room to go away and have privacy, which is something I always craved. The house, she says, was always untidy. Always full of people. \"Always ringing with 'Has anybody seen my...?' and 'Who's had that?' And if you opened any cupboard, half of its contents would fall out.\"My parents liked to go dancing, and they encouraged all of us to bring our friends home. My brother had a skiffle group, and there would often be dancing in the house. And my parents would come and dance with us.\" I can imagine them, too - the teenage Quick, dancing; her brother and his friends bashing out the music; and Leonard and Joan joining in. Perhaps it is 1965. Diana Quick doesn't know it yet, but this is the end of her charmed life.\u2022 A Tug on the Thread: From the British Raj to the British Stage by Diana Quick is published by Virago at \u00a317.99 and is available at the Guardian bookshop.", "tags": ["Family", "British identity and society", "Life and style", "UK news"], "title": "Diana Quick discovers a passage from India"},{"date": "2009-05-08T23:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Diana Quick is telling me about the morning of her father's death. The actor, famous as Julia Flyte in the 1981 TV series Brideshead Revisited, was an 18-year-old student at Oxford Univeristy. Leonard Quick, a prosperous dentist, was 50. He was waking up in the family house in Kent when he had a heart attack. \"He was in his prime,\" his daughter, now 62, tells me. She is speaking softly, in a clipped voice. \"It was a coronary. He was taken to hospital and made comfortable; the belief was that they'd got it in time. But he had a second attack, and died.\"This moment, Quick says, marked a huge turning-point in her life. Before her father's death, she had led a charmed life. She had got into Oxford at 17 to study English literature and was not only beautiful and clever, but funny, too - she would soon be in The Oxford Line, a comedy revue, with John Sergeant, Simon Brett and Nigel Rees. She epitomised the 60s - one of those mini-skirted girls who were the first generation to go on the pill. She even knew Mick Jagger. On the morning of her father's death, Diana Quick was cycling, on a pink bicycle, to a lecture by Isaiah Berlin.When she got back to her college, Quick found a note in her pigeonhole. It said: \"Contact your tutor IMMEDIATELY.\" Her tutor, Kathleen Lea, told her to sit down. Everything that had happened before this moment had gone right for Diana Quick; later, her friends would tell her that she had been so confident that she was \"hard to take\". Her close friend Hermione Lee, also an Oxford student, would say: \"You were insufferable, you know.\"Kathleen Lea told her what had happened. Stunned, Quick made her way back home, to the heart of her grieving family. That day, she says, was a blur. She arrived at her parents' - now, suddenly, her mother's - big Edwardian villa on the outskirts of Dartford to be met by her mother, Joan, her older sister, Julie, and her brothers, Clive and Richard. They went together to see Leonard's body. Quick remembers that his ears were \"blackish-blue\" with pooled blood, and that this was the thing that made her sure, beyond any doubt, that he was really dead.\"You don't consider it, do you?\" she says. \"You feel immortal and you feel those about you are. Very few people I knew had died. I didn't really think about getting old and dying.\" There is a silence, while we both think the same thought. Leonard Quick was not old. \"He was 50,\" she says. \"From where I am now, that seems cruelly young.\"But his death was hugely significant in another way. Until that moment, his daughter had known virtually nothing about his early life. And now she was full of questions. For one thing, his funeral was to be at a Catholic church. She hadn't known he was a Catholic. She knew he had grown up in India, arrived in England at the age of 17 and never went home. She had met his father and stepmother, her grandparents, only twice, briefly, even though they had moved from the subcontinent to Surrey. She hadn't really questioned the fact that the two senior Quicks, Bertie and Nora, had never visited their son's house. Their names were hardly mentioned. Why?\"I had an intimation that there was something I didn't know,\" says Quick. \"It was never discussed. My father was a very warm, gregarious, sociable person who had many interests. He lived his life very much in the present, full of activities and the next project. He had many hobbies. He was not given to retrospection. There are lots of things that I would have wanted to know about his life, that I suddenly couldn't ask. And my mother blocked any questions about it - she either didn't know, or she wasn't telling.\" I am talking to Quick in the bar of a London hotel across from the Thames; she says she has spent the last 10 years looking for the answers to the questions her mother wouldn't answer. The result of those 10 years is A Tug on the Thread, one of the best family memoirs I've read in a long time. Quick - who, as a young actor, was photographed in French Vogue by Cecil Beaton and was once described as \"the most beautiful woman in the world\" - is still good-looking. She is dressed in practical trousers and a white shirt. The impression I get is of a fierce intellect just beginning to blossom - she spent years playing alluring, mysterious women, then years playing slightly older women who were cracking up, and then, as she puts it, a series of \"bonking grannies\".She has been married, once, to the actor Kenneth Cranham, and had a long relationship, now over, with the actor Bill Nighy, with whom she has a 24-year-old daughter, Mary. Her divorce from Cranham was amicable: \"We went Dutch on the divorce; it cost us \u00a316 each.\" There was no acrimony over the splitting up of household items - on the contrary, it was all \"No - you take it.\" Later, she introduced Cranham to Charlotte Cornwell, with whom he had a daughter. Although, she says, the two have split up, her daughter with Nighy and Cranham's daughter with Cornwell have an almost-sisterly relationship. Quick seems uncomfortable talking about Nighy. All she will say is that they were together and now they are not. And that she lives in the house she shared with Nighy \"with friends - it's a very good arrangement\". And that a married man propositioned her recently. \"He explained to me that his parents, who were public figures, had a 19th-century marriage. I said: 'What does that mean?' And he said: 'You get the heir and the spare, and you do what you like.' And I said: 'Well, I'm not old-fashioned enough for that.'\"Still, she's quite bohemian and laid-back. But her characters are usually uptight and controlling: women who are obsessed with propriety and who cut off their families. For instance, there was Eva in the Diane Samuels play Kindertransport, a Jewish woman whose mother had saved her from the Nazis by putting her on a train bound for England. Later, when the mother reappears in Eva's life, she rejects her - because, as Quick says, \"the cost of re-opening those old wounds is too high\". Then there was Murielle in Simone de Beauvoir's play The Woman Destroyed - a tragic, spiteful bitch who alienates her husbands and children. And Mrs Alving in Ibsen's Ghosts, who has spent her life trying to cover up the unsavoury facts about her husband, and destroys herself in the process. And, of course, Julia Flyte, who, like her father (played by Laurence Olivier in the television series), spends her life denying her Catholic faith, only to be pulled back towards it by, in Evelyn Waugh's phrase, \"a twitch upon the thread\". This, of course, is why Quick calls her book A Tug on the Thread. She came from a family steeped in denial, and it is this denial that she has been playing out ever since. For the book, she traced her family history back to her great-grandfather, Christopher Quick, who enlisted in the army as a teenager and sailed to India in the early 1870s. He had a drink problem and spent some time in jail. At the age of 32, he married an Anglo-Indian woman - someone whose parentage included both English and Indian forebears. The couple had three Anglo-Indian children, one of whom was Bertie, the grandfather who ended up in Surrey but was never mentioned in Diana's house.Bertie Quick did well. He became a dental surgeon in the foothills of the Himalayas, and also a general surgeon who patched up soldiers wounded in skirmishes on the north-west frontier. He had three children, one of whom was Leonard, and two houses. But, as an Anglo-Indian, he was never admitted to the pukka clubs - he would always be outside the pale. However, he had a plan: he would encourage Leonard to study dentistry in England, so that when his son came back home, Bertie could join forces with him in a newly anglicised practice. It would be enough, just, to bring the Quicks back from the pale, and possibly enough to satisfy Bertie's horribly snobbish second wife, Nora.But it was not to be. When Leonard went to London to study dentistry at Guy's hospital, he fell in love with Joan, Diana's mother. He didn't want to come back. And so began a titanic struggle. Bertie cut off Leonard's money; Leonard nearly went hungry; Leonard could see no way of completing his studies, and therefore becoming a dentist and able to marry Joan. But Joan's father lent Leonard the money he needed to get himself through his course. Leonard married Joan, and was cut off by his family in India. Later, as the Raj began to crumble, Bertie and Nora moved to England, where they had never lived. Leonard and Bertie never spoke. Bertie died in 1966; he outlived Leonard by six months. Neither Diana nor her siblings have any memories of Bertie at Leonard's funeral.One of the things that Quick has done so well is to show how the forces of snobbery and racism work their way through families, generation after generation. She has also written a book that describes the social conditions in the Raj better than almost any other I have read. She talked to many Anglo-Indians, some of whom \"passed for white\"; one man would only speak under a cloak of secrecy. He lived in the home counties and everybody thought he was English. \"He thought his friends would look at him differently,\" says Quick - and he might have been right. \"He kept saying: 'Let sleeping dogs lie.'\"She misses her father. If he was still alive, he'd be in his 90s now. \"I'd have had a companion,\" she says, \"because we always did get along so well. But if he hadn't died, I don't think I'd have got to know my mother in the way that I did.\" She spent a lot of time with her mother - years of mother-and-daughter holidays. Joan Quick died three years ago, of Parkinson's disease, in her early 90s.She remembers with huge fondness her childhood home: the big villa with bow windows and a balcony added by Joan's father. \"It was very warm and welcoming; there were lots of nooks and crannies. There was room to go away and have privacy, which is something I always craved. The house, she says, was always untidy. Always full of people. \"Always ringing with 'Has anybody seen my...?' and 'Who's had that?' And if you opened any cupboard, half of its contents would fall out.\"My parents liked to go dancing, and they encouraged all of us to bring our friends home. My brother had a skiffle group, and there would often be dancing in the house. And my parents would come and dance with us.\" I can imagine them, too - the teenage Quick, dancing; her brother and his friends bashing out the music; and Leonard and Joan joining in. Perhaps it is 1965. Diana Quick doesn't know it yet, but this is the end of her charmed life.\u2022 A Tug on the Thread: From the British Raj to the British Stage by Diana Quick is published by Virago at \u00a317.99 and is available at the Guardian bookshop.", "tags": ["Family", "British identity and society", "Life and style", "UK news"], "title": "Diana Quick discovers a passage from India"},{"date": "2009-04-17T23:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The theme of the London book fair this year is Indian writing. Vikram Seth, Amartya Sen, William Dalrymple and other writers in frequent circulation in this country are going to be joined by writers - K Satchidanandan, Javed Akhtar - distinguished or popular on their own terrain but less known here, for five days of discussions and celebrations. Something like this happened in 2006 to the Frankfurt book fair, when planeloads of Indian novelists and poets descended on the Intercontinental Hotel, waved to each other over breakfast, and then read from their work to courteous audiences in the afternoons and evenings.The theme then, too, was India; and the \"idea of India\" acted as a catalyst to a process that might have already begun, but received, at that moment, a recognisable impetus - the confluence, in one place, of literary and intellectual dialogue with what is basically business activity, each bringing magic and movement to the other. The India-themed Paris book fair followed swiftly.Both these events proved a few things. Firstly, you were reminded of the variety of genres that Indian writers - especially those who write in languages other than English - had practised for much of the 20th century. In the hotel lobbies, the caf\u00e9s and restaurants in adjoining streets, not to speak of the venues, you kept running into poets, critics, short-story writers, historians, playwrights from the many Indian literatures; and, of course, novelists. The English language had, it would seem, only thrown up novelists in India in the last 30 years; the truth is that there were and are excellent English-language poets, but few, or none, had been invited.As to the writers from the more troubled regions outside the metropolitan suburbs in which English alone was spoken, you could see, if you scratched the surface of their slightly bureaucratic veneer, that they possessed an eclecticism of taste and literary predilections, a formal curiosity, as well as a true multilingualism, that made them quite akin - paradoxically for brown men wandering about the streets of Frankfurt and Paris - to the breed of writers once called \"European\". However, no one, I think, asked them about their relationship to Europe, though each of them would have had an answer to the question; this was a reminder of the odd discrepancy between language - and I don't just mean English and French and Hindi - and vantage-point and intention that sometimes characterised interactions between audiences and writers.The other thing that hit you was the amount of money the Indian government had to spare for culture; it was one of the main sponsors of these events, and had made these migratory, crowded, but characteristically desultory congregations possible. Why now? And just how much thought had gone into the meetings and readings? Perhaps a great deal more could have been done over the decades following independence to give us a greater and more acute sense of our literary history as moderns, especially as more funding seemed to have been available than had been assumed. We in India have no equivalent of the Modern Library, for instance, nor anything like the Penguin Modern European Poets series, let alone properly influential critical and scholarly work on 20th-century literature. Are the book fairs, with their new kind of commingling, sending out a hint - perhaps an unintended one - about the timeliness of such initiatives to their organisers?Another revealing aspect of Frankfurt and Paris was the evidently unconstricted and even unpredictable way foreign rights were sold by Indian publishers (without, necessarily, British mediation) to European countries: this explained the random mix of celebrities and little-known practitioners, of the \"latest thing\" in Indian writing in English as well as the older and occasionally infirm writers (members of a deceased avant-garde) in the Indian languages. Some of these people have hardly been translated into English, but are often available in French or German, and there are students writing doctorates on their work. The putative common pool of the Indo-European languages (established at first in the late 18th century by a Welshman, William Jones, and put into circulation in Europe by the Germans Schlegel, Schiller, Goethe and later Max Mueller) probably - who knows? - still stirs faintly in the memory of European academia as it hardly does in the Anglo-Saxon world. Or, possibly, the fact that these countries have less of a direct relationship with India than Britain allows for the frequently hit-or-miss but sometimes surprising nature of the Indian list on the European publishers' catalogues. What will London bring that Frankfurt and Paris haven't? Certainly, it seems to have taken the cue from the two European cities in at least one regard: it hasn't invited only those writers who are published in this country - that is, Anglophone writers of prose. So, for instance, we will have, besides Vikram Seth, Ramachandra Guha and Patrick French, the Urdu-language theorist Gopi Chand Narang, the Bengali poet and novelist Sunil Ganguly, and the English-language poet and novelist Mamang Dai from the idyllic, remote Arunachal Pradesh. In other words, the book fair should bring some intimation to audiences in London of an explosion in writing that is not 30 but perhaps 200 years old, the consequence of a venerable, many-tongued, and still astonishing lineage in modernism.There will also be two writers who have aired their disagreements with each other in these pages - the Englishman William Radice, poet, translator of Tagore, and, until recently, poet laureate-aspirant, and the younger Jeet Thayil, poet, critic, editor of an anthology of Indian poetry in English, and defender (odd but instructive that it should need defending even now, in a way that Indian fiction no longer does) of the continued viability of Indian English poetry. Not all of these choices are risky ones; many of these writers (myself included) now spend a fair amount of time in the ghostly, mnemonic world of international book fairs, in their guise as crowded transit lounges for the nation; here we wait, eat, talk to each other, ignore acquaintances, as the difference between airport, venue and hotel gradually diminishes. But does this journey lead somewhere? Will it change the way Indian writing is configured within British publishing?How does travel shape and qualify writing and nationality (a common enough conundrum), especially when they take on this form - the transcontinental literary event; the book reading in a foreign location? And how do these writers cohere and relate to each other in our minds: what is it, besides the book fair and perhaps the place of birth on their passports or some long-standing enthusiasm, that makes K Satchidanandan and Tarun J Tejpal and Dalrymple all, in some sense, \"Indian\" writers? One thing we do know is that travel is not only about bringing your particular skills, wares, identity and lineage to a place, but being changed by, and learning from, the act of travelling and facing up to foreignness. In roughly the past 20 years India has changed from being a Nehruvian nation-state - an experiment and ideal in democracy - to a portable mode of existence, as well as a form of self-justification for a curious mixture of free-market opportunism and a slyly conservative provincialism. This means that Indians, as they travel, migrate and resettle, have increasingly begun to deflect the problem - and the rewards - of encountering foreignness, and strangeness, and the notion of \"India\" has helped them in (has, in fact, been crucial to) this deflection. The so-called Indian diaspora ceased, really, to want either to integrate with, or radically revise, the landscape they moved to in the 1980s and 90s (usually, the United States, succeeding the earlier wave of immigration to Britain); instead, they wished to conform silently and, simultaneously, to continue as themselves. This has led to a unique combination of acceptance and denial. In 2002, spending some months in America, I found an array of young first-generation Indian settlers in the more well-to-do suburbs of New Jersey and Atlanta, almost entirely, and pretty aggressively, committed to American foreign policy and the Bush dispensation, and yet also clinging to Indian film songs and DVDs and food and marriages, a universe on which contemporary American culture, and Americans themselves, impinged only rarely. This was one of the many recognisable versions of \"India\" that have sprung up in the last two decades, where \"foreignness\" does not actually occur in any compelling way. Jhumpa Lahiri has only recently begun to hint - with a delicate abstention from the obvious - at the silence that surrounds this microcosm, in the stories in her bestselling collection Unaccustomed EarthSo much of what the Indian middle class sees as its ideal present and its possible future, including its thoughts on the role of literature, emanates from, or emerges in relation to, these American suburbs. In a survey undertaken last year, it turned out that India lagged behind America alone in its love for that country and for George Bush. (\"India\" here is a metonym for the middle class, and vice versa.) In the Clinton era, and even more pronouncedly in the Bush era, the US came to be seen as a facilitator of India's own teeming, importunate ambitions, for its true place in the world, and, therefore, as a familial figure, in keeping with the Indian middle class's interpretation of family, as an institution that is primarily a guarantor of self-interest. When India looks at America, it sees a comforting or discomfiting (according to the phase of history it then inhabits) extension of its own welfare - much in the way that a child invents its mother. This version of the familial also seems to direct the way a large number of Anglophone Indians view what they think of as literature. Their incongruously intimate, emotion-prone and proprietorial relationship with the Booker prize is a case in point. Here, feelings of self-approbation and self-doubt characterise the response to the outcome; and rarely was this inability to escape anxieties to do with prestige clearer than in 2008, when there were two Indians on the shortlist. An uneasy family drama ensued in India, with scorn being poured on one Indian, Aravind Adiga, and felicitations being made prematurely to the other, Amitav Ghosh. When Adiga won, there was patrician outrage; national - or family - pride had been violated. Word had soon got out in the British press that the other serious contender for the prize besides Adiga, as far as the judges were concerned, was Sebastian Barry. This Irish writer, however, hardly penetrated the Indian consciousness, and nor had the others on the list besides the two mentioned; the heterogeneity of Anglophone writing is not something that Indians are any longer prepared to do business with. Similarly, there's a sense, in the context of the new, middle-class Indian, of an end to the notion of travel as disjunction and discovery.Travel, anyway, shapes the literary festival, the book fair, in paradoxically enclosing ways, and with a degree of unreality. You cover great distances, sometimes, to arrive at the literary festival, but the festival itself is a province, an enclosure. This special provincialism and curious lack of movement becomes more intense when the theme is nationality, or a national literature, as has been the case with the \"international\" festivals concerning India this century. It started in 2002 at Neemrana, a heritage fort outside Delhi converted into a luxury hotel, where the Indian Council for Cultural Relations hosted the first India-themed literary conference, a gathering of well-known writers with the polarising figure of VS Naipaul at the centre. For three days, the writers read from and discussed their work to and with each other; there was access neither to the public nor to the world outside the ancient fortress walls. It was a bit like a Walter de la Mare ghost story, with several sinister and incredible possibilities hanging in the air simultaneously; and the feeling of circularity and repetition was confirmed later, when the conference moved to Delhi and was opened to the public, and India turned out to be almost the only point of reference in the conversations and the questions and answers. Personally, I think I could find out more about myself by asking Ian Jack (to take a random example; he wasn't present at Neemrana) what he thinks about Hugh MacDiarmid or Muriel Spark, or the Scottish education system in the 60s, or his experiences as a newspaper editor in Thatcher's England, than by interrogating him on India; this is because we're both - as a Bengali and a Scotsman - historical beings invested and implicated in the 20th and unfolding 21st centuries, and will address each other most profoundly, despite our differences, only by addressing our own deepest memories about ourselves. I think the Scotsman understands this, which is why he doesn't constantly ask me what I think about Scotland; but I wonder if the Indian does. To constantly look for yourself even when you encounter the foreign is never to travel; while we know that it's in observing and overhearing others as we journey that we often discover unexpected dimensions of ourselves.The question, then, is whether, and in what ways, the literary festival or book fair (in Frankfurt or Paris or Delhi or London) can open up to the fact of foreignness and travel. In Paris, I remember, most of us stayed in our hotel rooms, or idly explored the huge, over-populated venue; on the bus between hotel and venue, I said to the Kannada novelist UR Anantha Murthy (who will be present in London), \"Is that the real Eiffel tower?\" - for we'd seen it from many angles outside the bus window in the last day and a half, illuminated during the night, deceptively proximate by daylight, a consoling fiction. Anantha Murthy shook his head gravely at its dogged ubiquity, at the very fact that the tower outside the window denoted at once that we were irrefutably in Paris and yet never in it, and said: \"To escape the Eiffel tower you have to go inside it,\" adding, with a smile: \"I think it was Barthes who said that.\" Much the same could be said of identity and nationality; that, for their monumental, visible qualities to evaporate, you have to somehow disappear into them. Anantha Murthy's (for me, utterly surprising) remark made me aware, momentarily, of the contingencies of travel and literature in a way that few of the seminars did: that I knew almost as little, or as much, about his sensibility as I did about Paris.This admission brings me back to the question: how are Indian writers located within a single space - a hotel lobby; a seminar room; a tradition - actually related to each other? I asked myself this for the first time as I began to put together, at the beginning of the 2000s, The Picador Book of Modern Indian Literature: what, for example, connected the 19th-century Bengali poet Michael Madhusudan Dutt to Salman Rushdie, Rushdie to UR Anantha Murthy, and Anantha Murthy to Vikram Seth? The generic word \"Indian\" by itself provided no key. But the idea of travel did - not just travel within these writers' lives, but form and canon and genre themselves being kinds of travel, of experiencing the foreign. Anantha Murthy had discovered his subject-matter - an existential tale about a Brahmin set in rural Karnataka - while watching Bergman's The Seventh Seal, without subtitles, in Birmingham with his supervisor Malcolm Bradbury; Rushdie had read The Tin Drum in an almost auditory mode (he could hear the resounding drumbeat) and had also been studying Bu\u00f1uel and Satyajit Ray; Dutt, in the early 1860s, had begun to refine the sonnet in the Bengali language in the melancholy of Versailles; while Seth, more than a 100 years later, had been struck by the ebullience of Pushkin's use of the tetrameter and the sonnet in Eugene Onegin. All this - that is, the movements and paths along which Indian literature had been shaped in the past 200 years - had occurred before fax machines and the internet had come into existence; before the knowledge that accrues with travel had become information, and when travel was still a code for survival and daydreaming, and almost an unspoken faith.Tagore came to England as an unhappy teenager in 1878, and heard western music properly almost for the first time; more than 40 years later, in what might be read as a gesture of reciprocity, he arranged for the Bauhaus artists' works to be exhibited in Calcutta. In the early 1960s, Allen Ginsberg and Peter Orlovsky came to India, hung out with the avant-garde Calcutta poets (of whom one, Sunil Ganguly, will be attending the London book fair in a more canonical incarnation), went to Bombay and met, among others, the poets Arun Kolatkar, Adil Jussawalla and Nissim Ezekiel, and returned to America with various manifestos and poems ready for translation. Around this time, and very soon after Robert Lowell published his Imitations, the bilingual Arun Kolatkar (who died five years ago) had begun to compose his extraordinary contemporary versions in English of the Marathi medieval devotional saint-poet Tukaram. When I think of these moments, I'm reminded afresh of the emergence of literature as a network and a form of complex, far-flung exchange, long before the emergence of \"information\" and present-day modes of travel. It's this mystery that informs the list of \"favourite\" writers Kolatkar provides for an Indian interviewer in a mood of exasperation and mischievousness, a list in which the dead and the living, like and unlike, mingle disconcertingly: \"Whitman, Mardhekar, Manmohan, Eliot, Pound, Auden, Hart Crane, Dylan Thomas, Kafka, Baudelaire, Heine, Catullus, Villon, Dnyaneshwar, Namdev, Janabai, Eknath, Tukaram, Wang Wei. Tu Fu, Han Shan ... Mandelshtam, Dostoevsky, Gogol, Isaac Bashevis Singer, Babel, Apollinaire, Breton, Brecht, Neruda, Ginsberg ... Henry Miller, Nabokov, Namdeo Dhasal, Patthe Bapurav, Rabelais ... Rex Stout, Agatha Christie ... Bhalchandra Nemade ... Lewis Carroll, John Lennon, Bob Dylan, Sylvia Plath, Ted Hughes, Godse Bhatji ... Kabir, Robert Johnson, Muddy Waters, Leadbelly, Howling Wolf, John Lee Hooker ... Kurosawa, Eisenstein, Truffaut, Woody Guthrie, Laurel and Hardy.\" This is probably as good an intellectual history of Indian literature as any other. Uncontained by either genre or nationality, it happens to contain two figures - the \"untouchable\" Dalit poet Namdeo Dhasal and the Marathi novelist-critic Bhalchandra Nemade - who'll also be making their way this week to London. It remains to be seen if any of the others mentioned will put in an appearance.I recommend Namdeo Dhasal: Poet of the Underworld (1972-2006). It is raw, disturbing stuff. I don't agree with his politics now (he supports the Hindutva brigade), but his work should be read because it tells of what a brutal society we live in.Arundhati Roy, novelistPublished in England by the Hogarth Press in 1940 - and championed by Woolf and Forster - Ahmed Ali's Twilight in Delhi was one of the first Indian novels to create a stir among literary circles in England. And not just among literary circles - the printers refused, at first, to publish it because of its critical comments about colonial rule. Set in Old Delhi in 1911 at the time of George V's coronation ceremony, it describes the life of Mir Nihal and his family. They live in a world conscious that its glory days (during the Mughal empire) have long since passed. Ali's style may seem ornate to some readers, but his description of the dying world of Delhi is gloriously atmospheric, and the rhythms of the language pull you in. Kamila Shamsie, novelistQurratulain Hyder, novelist, short story writer and prose stylist of rare accomplishment, is one of Urdu's greatest writers. Literary critic Aamer Hussein has compared her to her contemporaries, Milan Kundera and Gabriel Garcia Marquez, as \"one of the world's major writers: eclectic, iconoclastic and versatile\". In her 30s, she wrote her magnum opus, Aag ka Darya - published in English for the first time in 1998 as River of Fire - a great river of a novel, majestic in its sweep, grand in its vision. She maintained that writing can encompass \"fact, reportage, imagination, documentary presentation, the epistolary form\", even cinematic treatment. All her novels, novellas and short stories are a testament to this belief, as well as to her cosmopolitanism and uncompromising secularism. Ritu Menon, founder of Women Unlimited, India's oldest feminist pressDaniyal Mueenuddin's outstanding collection of short stories, In Other Rooms, Other Wonders, is rooted in a rural landscape, like the stories of RK Narayan, but is far blacker than Narayan's work, with the trajectory of each story ending in a shell-burst of loss and tragedy. Mueenuddin looks for inspiration not to the writing of south Asia but to Turgenev and Chekov, and the bleakness of vision of Dostoyevsky or Gogol. His Pakistan is visually beautiful - there are wonderful sketches of the rhythms of the landscape with its clouds and banyan trees and mango orchards, its sugar-cane fields and the sound of \"water running through the reeds in the canal\" - but it is also brutal and savage. Other Rooms is quite unlike anything recently published in India, and throws the gauntlet down to a new generation of Indian writers. Pakistan as a force in literature seems to be gaining greater momentum every day.William Dalrymple, writerFew writers have travelled so far - literally and metaphorically - as a young woman born in 1968 in a village in the Tiruchy district of Tamil Nadu in southern India. Rokkaiah dropped out of school in the 9th grade, and was married off early and against her will to a conservative Muslim family (like her own). She started writing poetry at the age of 13, and, despite strong familial pressure to stop, continued - writing under cover of night, and publishing under a pseudonym, Salma, that would soon be known throughout the state and beyond. Salma has published two collections of poetry, Oru Malaiyum, Innoru Malaiyum (\"One Evening, Another Evening\") and Pachai Devadhai (\"The Green Goddess\") - powerful, lyrical and explicit explorations of women's lives trapped in their homes. Along with three other poets, Salma in 2003 faced charges of obscenity (as well as death-threats). A female Muslim writer in India is a rarity; one who writes with such frankness about sex and sexuality is even rarer. On top of this, being an active and respected local politician and social activist makes Salma unique.Anita Roy, Zubaan BooksNirad C Chaudhuri is seen as an anachronism now, though in the 1960s VS Naipaul wrote that his Autobiography of an Unknown Indian was \"the one great book to come out of the Indo-English encounter\". Chaudhuri loved to be a controversialist, \"to make mischief\", as he put it, and he spent the last half of his very long life (1897-1999) upsetting as many people and orthodoxies as he could find the time to meet or examine. Chaudhuri was a genuine polymath. He wrote studies of Hinduism and biographies of Robert Clive and Max Mueller, and most of his work was marked by pugnacious and often wrong-headed judgments. But Autobiography and its sequel Thy Hand, Great Anarch! give a wonderful picture of Indian life in the first half of the last century, as well as of the author's remarkable progress from a Bengali village to a flat in north Oxford. No other Indian author has written so interestingly or frankly about himself, at least in the English language. Take the scene on the bridal bed after Chaudhuri and his new wife have just gone through their wedding rituals and are tentatively trying to get to know each other. As a great Europhile, Chaudhuri wants to know if she's heard any western classical music. She indicates that she hasn't. But has she heard of Beethoven? Yes. Can she perhaps spell his name? \"She said slowly: 'B, E, E, T, H, O, V, E, N.' I felt very encouraged. After that we talked about other things aimlessly and dozed off.\"Ian Jack, writer and editorSadaat Hasan Manto, who worked primarily as a scriptwriter in Bombay before partition, and moved to Pakistan, is the Indian Isaac Babel, a writer of dark, savage beauty, who portrayed the underbelly of Indian life like no other. I believe that the fiction coming out of Pakistan at the moment - by writers such as Mohammed Hanif, Moni Mohsin and Daniyal Mueenuddin - is the most interesting in the subcontinent. These writers are telling stories that we haven't heard before.Chiki Sarkar, editor-in-chief, Random House IndiaBetween history and memory lies the other side of Euclid's line in which Bhasha writers spin their magical worlds. Whether it is Vijaydan Detha or Naiyer Masud, Krishna Sobti or Paul Zacharia, they craft bold, alternative worlds. Yes, their writings stand for myriad imaginations across 3,300,000sq km of a linguistically exciting map. And yes, many talk of poverty and deprivation - but this is part of the global human predicament. But Bhasha writers are much more than just this. Many have a unique sense of humour and voice - vibrant, down-to-earth, alive. Dig deep with them to find where truth lies in the bewildering heterogeneity that is India. Geeta Dharmarajan, founder of the social organisation KathaGovardhan's Travels, by Anand (translated from Malayalam by Gita Krishnakutty) is a funny, skilful tale about the fate of the \"common man\". Bitingly satirical, Anand's novel (his real name is P Sachidanandan) is familiar to virtually every reader in the author's home state of Kerala, but unfortunately little known outside. The Bengali writer Mahashveta Devi calls it \"the most memorable literary event of my experience\".Urvashi Butalia, director and co-founder of Kali for WomenThe novels behind Satyajit Ray's films are great literature - Bibhutibhushan Bandopadhyay's Apu books, the works of Rabindranath Tagore, and others - many available in translation. Ray was an advertising man, tall and senatorial, a fan of Billy Wilder, and he wrote delightful children's books. His best-known are the Feluda series. The books tap into a childhood longing for mystery and detective work, but they appeal to all ages. Collections of his stories for adults remain available. His best-known book, however, is on films: Our Films Their FilmsShruti Debi, editor, Picador IndiaPublished bilingually in English and Hindi, Diddi - My mother's Voice was written by Ira Pande as a tribute to her mother, the Hindi writer Shivani. The author of more than 40 books, many of which were serialised in the literary magazine Dharmayug, Shivani had a fanatical following among her millions of readers. After her death in 2003, her daughter Ira translated a selection of her writings into English, with a commentary on her charismatic mother, and their proud and eccentric Brahmin family. She wrote the same commentary in Hindi, interspersing the original stories with personal insights. Set in the Kumaon hills in the lower Himalayas, her narrative brings fiction and memoir together into a compelling portrait of a changing society. Namita Gokhale, writer and co-director of the Jaipur literature festivalPoet, short story writer, essayist, novelist, script writer and director, Premendra Mitra (1904-1988) was a prominent figure in the cultural life of Bengal. His outstanding contribution to Bengali literature was the character Ghanshyam Das or Ghana-da. Living in an all-male hostel and rarely stepping out of it, Ghana-da spins tall tales that take us to exotic locations: the Malaysian rainforests, the South Sea Islands, the Arctic and the Antarctic. There is a constant supply of food - several rounds of mutton chops and prawn cutlets - and cigarettes as this ageless raconteur mesmerises his listeners with stories of his bravado. This lovable, legendary character, reminiscent of Baron M\u00fcnchausen, and as delightful as Herg\u00e9's Tintin, is an all-time favourite.Diya Kar Hazra, editor, Penguin India\u2022 For further information on the British Council's India '09 at the London book fair, go to: londonbookfair.co.uk or britishcouncil.org/india", "tags": ["Books", "Culture", "India", "World news", "London book fair"], "title": "Amit Chaudhuri on the new generation of Indian writers"},{"date": "2009-05-08T23:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Diana Quick is telling me about the morning of her father's death. The actor, famous as Julia Flyte in the 1981 TV series Brideshead Revisited, was an 18-year-old student at Oxford Univeristy. Leonard Quick, a prosperous dentist, was 50. He was waking up in the family house in Kent when he had a heart attack. \"He was in his prime,\" his daughter, now 62, tells me. She is speaking softly, in a clipped voice. \"It was a coronary. He was taken to hospital and made comfortable; the belief was that they'd got it in time. But he had a second attack, and died.\"This moment, Quick says, marked a huge turning-point in her life. Before her father's death, she had led a charmed life. She had got into Oxford at 17 to study English literature and was not only beautiful and clever, but funny, too - she would soon be in The Oxford Line, a comedy revue, with John Sergeant, Simon Brett and Nigel Rees. She epitomised the 60s - one of those mini-skirted girls who were the first generation to go on the pill. She even knew Mick Jagger. On the morning of her father's death, Diana Quick was cycling, on a pink bicycle, to a lecture by Isaiah Berlin.When she got back to her college, Quick found a note in her pigeonhole. It said: \"Contact your tutor IMMEDIATELY.\" Her tutor, Kathleen Lea, told her to sit down. Everything that had happened before this moment had gone right for Diana Quick; later, her friends would tell her that she had been so confident that she was \"hard to take\". Her close friend Hermione Lee, also an Oxford student, would say: \"You were insufferable, you know.\"Kathleen Lea told her what had happened. Stunned, Quick made her way back home, to the heart of her grieving family. That day, she says, was a blur. She arrived at her parents' - now, suddenly, her mother's - big Edwardian villa on the outskirts of Dartford to be met by her mother, Joan, her older sister, Julie, and her brothers, Clive and Richard. They went together to see Leonard's body. Quick remembers that his ears were \"blackish-blue\" with pooled blood, and that this was the thing that made her sure, beyond any doubt, that he was really dead.\"You don't consider it, do you?\" she says. \"You feel immortal and you feel those about you are. Very few people I knew had died. I didn't really think about getting old and dying.\" There is a silence, while we both think the same thought. Leonard Quick was not old. \"He was 50,\" she says. \"From where I am now, that seems cruelly young.\"But his death was hugely significant in another way. Until that moment, his daughter had known virtually nothing about his early life. And now she was full of questions. For one thing, his funeral was to be at a Catholic church. She hadn't known he was a Catholic. She knew he had grown up in India, arrived in England at the age of 17 and never went home. She had met his father and stepmother, her grandparents, only twice, briefly, even though they had moved from the subcontinent to Surrey. She hadn't really questioned the fact that the two senior Quicks, Bertie and Nora, had never visited their son's house. Their names were hardly mentioned. Why?\"I had an intimation that there was something I didn't know,\" says Quick. \"It was never discussed. My father was a very warm, gregarious, sociable person who had many interests. He lived his life very much in the present, full of activities and the next project. He had many hobbies. He was not given to retrospection. There are lots of things that I would have wanted to know about his life, that I suddenly couldn't ask. And my mother blocked any questions about it - she either didn't know, or she wasn't telling.\" I am talking to Quick in the bar of a London hotel across from the Thames; she says she has spent the last 10 years looking for the answers to the questions her mother wouldn't answer. The result of those 10 years is A Tug on the Thread, one of the best family memoirs I've read in a long time. Quick - who, as a young actor, was photographed in French Vogue by Cecil Beaton and was once described as \"the most beautiful woman in the world\" - is still good-looking. She is dressed in practical trousers and a white shirt. The impression I get is of a fierce intellect just beginning to blossom - she spent years playing alluring, mysterious women, then years playing slightly older women who were cracking up, and then, as she puts it, a series of \"bonking grannies\".She has been married, once, to the actor Kenneth Cranham, and had a long relationship, now over, with the actor Bill Nighy, with whom she has a 24-year-old daughter, Mary. Her divorce from Cranham was amicable: \"We went Dutch on the divorce; it cost us \u00a316 each.\" There was no acrimony over the splitting up of household items - on the contrary, it was all \"No - you take it.\" Later, she introduced Cranham to Charlotte Cornwell, with whom he had a daughter. Although, she says, the two have split up, her daughter with Nighy and Cranham's daughter with Cornwell have an almost-sisterly relationship. Quick seems uncomfortable talking about Nighy. All she will say is that they were together and now they are not. And that she lives in the house she shared with Nighy \"with friends - it's a very good arrangement\". And that a married man propositioned her recently. \"He explained to me that his parents, who were public figures, had a 19th-century marriage. I said: 'What does that mean?' And he said: 'You get the heir and the spare, and you do what you like.' And I said: 'Well, I'm not old-fashioned enough for that.'\"Still, she's quite bohemian and laid-back. But her characters are usually uptight and controlling: women who are obsessed with propriety and who cut off their families. For instance, there was Eva in the Diane Samuels play Kindertransport, a Jewish woman whose mother had saved her from the Nazis by putting her on a train bound for England. Later, when the mother reappears in Eva's life, she rejects her - because, as Quick says, \"the cost of re-opening those old wounds is too high\". Then there was Murielle in Simone de Beauvoir's play The Woman Destroyed - a tragic, spiteful bitch who alienates her husbands and children. And Mrs Alving in Ibsen's Ghosts, who has spent her life trying to cover up the unsavoury facts about her husband, and destroys herself in the process. And, of course, Julia Flyte, who, like her father (played by Laurence Olivier in the television series), spends her life denying her Catholic faith, only to be pulled back towards it by, in Evelyn Waugh's phrase, \"a twitch upon the thread\". This, of course, is why Quick calls her book A Tug on the Thread. She came from a family steeped in denial, and it is this denial that she has been playing out ever since. For the book, she traced her family history back to her great-grandfather, Christopher Quick, who enlisted in the army as a teenager and sailed to India in the early 1870s. He had a drink problem and spent some time in jail. At the age of 32, he married an Anglo-Indian woman - someone whose parentage included both English and Indian forebears. The couple had three Anglo-Indian children, one of whom was Bertie, the grandfather who ended up in Surrey but was never mentioned in Diana's house.Bertie Quick did well. He became a dental surgeon in the foothills of the Himalayas, and also a general surgeon who patched up soldiers wounded in skirmishes on the north-west frontier. He had three children, one of whom was Leonard, and two houses. But, as an Anglo-Indian, he was never admitted to the pukka clubs - he would always be outside the pale. However, he had a plan: he would encourage Leonard to study dentistry in England, so that when his son came back home, Bertie could join forces with him in a newly anglicised practice. It would be enough, just, to bring the Quicks back from the pale, and possibly enough to satisfy Bertie's horribly snobbish second wife, Nora.But it was not to be. When Leonard went to London to study dentistry at Guy's hospital, he fell in love with Joan, Diana's mother. He didn't want to come back. And so began a titanic struggle. Bertie cut off Leonard's money; Leonard nearly went hungry; Leonard could see no way of completing his studies, and therefore becoming a dentist and able to marry Joan. But Joan's father lent Leonard the money he needed to get himself through his course. Leonard married Joan, and was cut off by his family in India. Later, as the Raj began to crumble, Bertie and Nora moved to England, where they had never lived. Leonard and Bertie never spoke. Bertie died in 1966; he outlived Leonard by six months. Neither Diana nor her siblings have any memories of Bertie at Leonard's funeral.One of the things that Quick has done so well is to show how the forces of snobbery and racism work their way through families, generation after generation. She has also written a book that describes the social conditions in the Raj better than almost any other I have read. She talked to many Anglo-Indians, some of whom \"passed for white\"; one man would only speak under a cloak of secrecy. He lived in the home counties and everybody thought he was English. \"He thought his friends would look at him differently,\" says Quick - and he might have been right. \"He kept saying: 'Let sleeping dogs lie.'\"She misses her father. If he was still alive, he'd be in his 90s now. \"I'd have had a companion,\" she says, \"because we always did get along so well. But if he hadn't died, I don't think I'd have got to know my mother in the way that I did.\" She spent a lot of time with her mother - years of mother-and-daughter holidays. Joan Quick died three years ago, of Parkinson's disease, in her early 90s.She remembers with huge fondness her childhood home: the big villa with bow windows and a balcony added by Joan's father. \"It was very warm and welcoming; there were lots of nooks and crannies. There was room to go away and have privacy, which is something I always craved. The house, she says, was always untidy. Always full of people. \"Always ringing with 'Has anybody seen my...?' and 'Who's had that?' And if you opened any cupboard, half of its contents would fall out.\"My parents liked to go dancing, and they encouraged all of us to bring our friends home. My brother had a skiffle group, and there would often be dancing in the house. And my parents would come and dance with us.\" I can imagine them, too - the teenage Quick, dancing; her brother and his friends bashing out the music; and Leonard and Joan joining in. Perhaps it is 1965. Diana Quick doesn't know it yet, but this is the end of her charmed life.\u2022 A Tug on the Thread: From the British Raj to the British Stage by Diana Quick is published by Virago at \u00a317.99 and is available at the Guardian bookshop.", "tags": ["Family", "British identity and society", "Life and style", "UK news"], "title": "Diana Quick discovers a passage from India"},{"date": "2009-04-17T23:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The theme of the London book fair this year is Indian writing. Vikram Seth, Amartya Sen, William Dalrymple and other writers in frequent circulation in this country are going to be joined by writers - K Satchidanandan, Javed Akhtar - distinguished or popular on their own terrain but less known here, for five days of discussions and celebrations. Something like this happened in 2006 to the Frankfurt book fair, when planeloads of Indian novelists and poets descended on the Intercontinental Hotel, waved to each other over breakfast, and then read from their work to courteous audiences in the afternoons and evenings.The theme then, too, was India; and the \"idea of India\" acted as a catalyst to a process that might have already begun, but received, at that moment, a recognisable impetus - the confluence, in one place, of literary and intellectual dialogue with what is basically business activity, each bringing magic and movement to the other. The India-themed Paris book fair followed swiftly.Both these events proved a few things. Firstly, you were reminded of the variety of genres that Indian writers - especially those who write in languages other than English - had practised for much of the 20th century. In the hotel lobbies, the caf\u00e9s and restaurants in adjoining streets, not to speak of the venues, you kept running into poets, critics, short-story writers, historians, playwrights from the many Indian literatures; and, of course, novelists. The English language had, it would seem, only thrown up novelists in India in the last 30 years; the truth is that there were and are excellent English-language poets, but few, or none, had been invited.As to the writers from the more troubled regions outside the metropolitan suburbs in which English alone was spoken, you could see, if you scratched the surface of their slightly bureaucratic veneer, that they possessed an eclecticism of taste and literary predilections, a formal curiosity, as well as a true multilingualism, that made them quite akin - paradoxically for brown men wandering about the streets of Frankfurt and Paris - to the breed of writers once called \"European\". However, no one, I think, asked them about their relationship to Europe, though each of them would have had an answer to the question; this was a reminder of the odd discrepancy between language - and I don't just mean English and French and Hindi - and vantage-point and intention that sometimes characterised interactions between audiences and writers.The other thing that hit you was the amount of money the Indian government had to spare for culture; it was one of the main sponsors of these events, and had made these migratory, crowded, but characteristically desultory congregations possible. Why now? And just how much thought had gone into the meetings and readings? Perhaps a great deal more could have been done over the decades following independence to give us a greater and more acute sense of our literary history as moderns, especially as more funding seemed to have been available than had been assumed. We in India have no equivalent of the Modern Library, for instance, nor anything like the Penguin Modern European Poets series, let alone properly influential critical and scholarly work on 20th-century literature. Are the book fairs, with their new kind of commingling, sending out a hint - perhaps an unintended one - about the timeliness of such initiatives to their organisers?Another revealing aspect of Frankfurt and Paris was the evidently unconstricted and even unpredictable way foreign rights were sold by Indian publishers (without, necessarily, British mediation) to European countries: this explained the random mix of celebrities and little-known practitioners, of the \"latest thing\" in Indian writing in English as well as the older and occasionally infirm writers (members of a deceased avant-garde) in the Indian languages. Some of these people have hardly been translated into English, but are often available in French or German, and there are students writing doctorates on their work. The putative common pool of the Indo-European languages (established at first in the late 18th century by a Welshman, William Jones, and put into circulation in Europe by the Germans Schlegel, Schiller, Goethe and later Max Mueller) probably - who knows? - still stirs faintly in the memory of European academia as it hardly does in the Anglo-Saxon world. Or, possibly, the fact that these countries have less of a direct relationship with India than Britain allows for the frequently hit-or-miss but sometimes surprising nature of the Indian list on the European publishers' catalogues. What will London bring that Frankfurt and Paris haven't? Certainly, it seems to have taken the cue from the two European cities in at least one regard: it hasn't invited only those writers who are published in this country - that is, Anglophone writers of prose. So, for instance, we will have, besides Vikram Seth, Ramachandra Guha and Patrick French, the Urdu-language theorist Gopi Chand Narang, the Bengali poet and novelist Sunil Ganguly, and the English-language poet and novelist Mamang Dai from the idyllic, remote Arunachal Pradesh. In other words, the book fair should bring some intimation to audiences in London of an explosion in writing that is not 30 but perhaps 200 years old, the consequence of a venerable, many-tongued, and still astonishing lineage in modernism.There will also be two writers who have aired their disagreements with each other in these pages - the Englishman William Radice, poet, translator of Tagore, and, until recently, poet laureate-aspirant, and the younger Jeet Thayil, poet, critic, editor of an anthology of Indian poetry in English, and defender (odd but instructive that it should need defending even now, in a way that Indian fiction no longer does) of the continued viability of Indian English poetry. Not all of these choices are risky ones; many of these writers (myself included) now spend a fair amount of time in the ghostly, mnemonic world of international book fairs, in their guise as crowded transit lounges for the nation; here we wait, eat, talk to each other, ignore acquaintances, as the difference between airport, venue and hotel gradually diminishes. But does this journey lead somewhere? Will it change the way Indian writing is configured within British publishing?How does travel shape and qualify writing and nationality (a common enough conundrum), especially when they take on this form - the transcontinental literary event; the book reading in a foreign location? And how do these writers cohere and relate to each other in our minds: what is it, besides the book fair and perhaps the place of birth on their passports or some long-standing enthusiasm, that makes K Satchidanandan and Tarun J Tejpal and Dalrymple all, in some sense, \"Indian\" writers? One thing we do know is that travel is not only about bringing your particular skills, wares, identity and lineage to a place, but being changed by, and learning from, the act of travelling and facing up to foreignness. In roughly the past 20 years India has changed from being a Nehruvian nation-state - an experiment and ideal in democracy - to a portable mode of existence, as well as a form of self-justification for a curious mixture of free-market opportunism and a slyly conservative provincialism. This means that Indians, as they travel, migrate and resettle, have increasingly begun to deflect the problem - and the rewards - of encountering foreignness, and strangeness, and the notion of \"India\" has helped them in (has, in fact, been crucial to) this deflection. The so-called Indian diaspora ceased, really, to want either to integrate with, or radically revise, the landscape they moved to in the 1980s and 90s (usually, the United States, succeeding the earlier wave of immigration to Britain); instead, they wished to conform silently and, simultaneously, to continue as themselves. This has led to a unique combination of acceptance and denial. In 2002, spending some months in America, I found an array of young first-generation Indian settlers in the more well-to-do suburbs of New Jersey and Atlanta, almost entirely, and pretty aggressively, committed to American foreign policy and the Bush dispensation, and yet also clinging to Indian film songs and DVDs and food and marriages, a universe on which contemporary American culture, and Americans themselves, impinged only rarely. This was one of the many recognisable versions of \"India\" that have sprung up in the last two decades, where \"foreignness\" does not actually occur in any compelling way. Jhumpa Lahiri has only recently begun to hint - with a delicate abstention from the obvious - at the silence that surrounds this microcosm, in the stories in her bestselling collection Unaccustomed EarthSo much of what the Indian middle class sees as its ideal present and its possible future, including its thoughts on the role of literature, emanates from, or emerges in relation to, these American suburbs. In a survey undertaken last year, it turned out that India lagged behind America alone in its love for that country and for George Bush. (\"India\" here is a metonym for the middle class, and vice versa.) In the Clinton era, and even more pronouncedly in the Bush era, the US came to be seen as a facilitator of India's own teeming, importunate ambitions, for its true place in the world, and, therefore, as a familial figure, in keeping with the Indian middle class's interpretation of family, as an institution that is primarily a guarantor of self-interest. When India looks at America, it sees a comforting or discomfiting (according to the phase of history it then inhabits) extension of its own welfare - much in the way that a child invents its mother. This version of the familial also seems to direct the way a large number of Anglophone Indians view what they think of as literature. Their incongruously intimate, emotion-prone and proprietorial relationship with the Booker prize is a case in point. Here, feelings of self-approbation and self-doubt characterise the response to the outcome; and rarely was this inability to escape anxieties to do with prestige clearer than in 2008, when there were two Indians on the shortlist. An uneasy family drama ensued in India, with scorn being poured on one Indian, Aravind Adiga, and felicitations being made prematurely to the other, Amitav Ghosh. When Adiga won, there was patrician outrage; national - or family - pride had been violated. Word had soon got out in the British press that the other serious contender for the prize besides Adiga, as far as the judges were concerned, was Sebastian Barry. This Irish writer, however, hardly penetrated the Indian consciousness, and nor had the others on the list besides the two mentioned; the heterogeneity of Anglophone writing is not something that Indians are any longer prepared to do business with. Similarly, there's a sense, in the context of the new, middle-class Indian, of an end to the notion of travel as disjunction and discovery.Travel, anyway, shapes the literary festival, the book fair, in paradoxically enclosing ways, and with a degree of unreality. You cover great distances, sometimes, to arrive at the literary festival, but the festival itself is a province, an enclosure. This special provincialism and curious lack of movement becomes more intense when the theme is nationality, or a national literature, as has been the case with the \"international\" festivals concerning India this century. It started in 2002 at Neemrana, a heritage fort outside Delhi converted into a luxury hotel, where the Indian Council for Cultural Relations hosted the first India-themed literary conference, a gathering of well-known writers with the polarising figure of VS Naipaul at the centre. For three days, the writers read from and discussed their work to and with each other; there was access neither to the public nor to the world outside the ancient fortress walls. It was a bit like a Walter de la Mare ghost story, with several sinister and incredible possibilities hanging in the air simultaneously; and the feeling of circularity and repetition was confirmed later, when the conference moved to Delhi and was opened to the public, and India turned out to be almost the only point of reference in the conversations and the questions and answers. Personally, I think I could find out more about myself by asking Ian Jack (to take a random example; he wasn't present at Neemrana) what he thinks about Hugh MacDiarmid or Muriel Spark, or the Scottish education system in the 60s, or his experiences as a newspaper editor in Thatcher's England, than by interrogating him on India; this is because we're both - as a Bengali and a Scotsman - historical beings invested and implicated in the 20th and unfolding 21st centuries, and will address each other most profoundly, despite our differences, only by addressing our own deepest memories about ourselves. I think the Scotsman understands this, which is why he doesn't constantly ask me what I think about Scotland; but I wonder if the Indian does. To constantly look for yourself even when you encounter the foreign is never to travel; while we know that it's in observing and overhearing others as we journey that we often discover unexpected dimensions of ourselves.The question, then, is whether, and in what ways, the literary festival or book fair (in Frankfurt or Paris or Delhi or London) can open up to the fact of foreignness and travel. In Paris, I remember, most of us stayed in our hotel rooms, or idly explored the huge, over-populated venue; on the bus between hotel and venue, I said to the Kannada novelist UR Anantha Murthy (who will be present in London), \"Is that the real Eiffel tower?\" - for we'd seen it from many angles outside the bus window in the last day and a half, illuminated during the night, deceptively proximate by daylight, a consoling fiction. Anantha Murthy shook his head gravely at its dogged ubiquity, at the very fact that the tower outside the window denoted at once that we were irrefutably in Paris and yet never in it, and said: \"To escape the Eiffel tower you have to go inside it,\" adding, with a smile: \"I think it was Barthes who said that.\" Much the same could be said of identity and nationality; that, for their monumental, visible qualities to evaporate, you have to somehow disappear into them. Anantha Murthy's (for me, utterly surprising) remark made me aware, momentarily, of the contingencies of travel and literature in a way that few of the seminars did: that I knew almost as little, or as much, about his sensibility as I did about Paris.This admission brings me back to the question: how are Indian writers located within a single space - a hotel lobby; a seminar room; a tradition - actually related to each other? I asked myself this for the first time as I began to put together, at the beginning of the 2000s, The Picador Book of Modern Indian Literature: what, for example, connected the 19th-century Bengali poet Michael Madhusudan Dutt to Salman Rushdie, Rushdie to UR Anantha Murthy, and Anantha Murthy to Vikram Seth? The generic word \"Indian\" by itself provided no key. But the idea of travel did - not just travel within these writers' lives, but form and canon and genre themselves being kinds of travel, of experiencing the foreign. Anantha Murthy had discovered his subject-matter - an existential tale about a Brahmin set in rural Karnataka - while watching Bergman's The Seventh Seal, without subtitles, in Birmingham with his supervisor Malcolm Bradbury; Rushdie had read The Tin Drum in an almost auditory mode (he could hear the resounding drumbeat) and had also been studying Bu\u00f1uel and Satyajit Ray; Dutt, in the early 1860s, had begun to refine the sonnet in the Bengali language in the melancholy of Versailles; while Seth, more than a 100 years later, had been struck by the ebullience of Pushkin's use of the tetrameter and the sonnet in Eugene Onegin. All this - that is, the movements and paths along which Indian literature had been shaped in the past 200 years - had occurred before fax machines and the internet had come into existence; before the knowledge that accrues with travel had become information, and when travel was still a code for survival and daydreaming, and almost an unspoken faith.Tagore came to England as an unhappy teenager in 1878, and heard western music properly almost for the first time; more than 40 years later, in what might be read as a gesture of reciprocity, he arranged for the Bauhaus artists' works to be exhibited in Calcutta. In the early 1960s, Allen Ginsberg and Peter Orlovsky came to India, hung out with the avant-garde Calcutta poets (of whom one, Sunil Ganguly, will be attending the London book fair in a more canonical incarnation), went to Bombay and met, among others, the poets Arun Kolatkar, Adil Jussawalla and Nissim Ezekiel, and returned to America with various manifestos and poems ready for translation. Around this time, and very soon after Robert Lowell published his Imitations, the bilingual Arun Kolatkar (who died five years ago) had begun to compose his extraordinary contemporary versions in English of the Marathi medieval devotional saint-poet Tukaram. When I think of these moments, I'm reminded afresh of the emergence of literature as a network and a form of complex, far-flung exchange, long before the emergence of \"information\" and present-day modes of travel. It's this mystery that informs the list of \"favourite\" writers Kolatkar provides for an Indian interviewer in a mood of exasperation and mischievousness, a list in which the dead and the living, like and unlike, mingle disconcertingly: \"Whitman, Mardhekar, Manmohan, Eliot, Pound, Auden, Hart Crane, Dylan Thomas, Kafka, Baudelaire, Heine, Catullus, Villon, Dnyaneshwar, Namdev, Janabai, Eknath, Tukaram, Wang Wei. Tu Fu, Han Shan ... Mandelshtam, Dostoevsky, Gogol, Isaac Bashevis Singer, Babel, Apollinaire, Breton, Brecht, Neruda, Ginsberg ... Henry Miller, Nabokov, Namdeo Dhasal, Patthe Bapurav, Rabelais ... Rex Stout, Agatha Christie ... Bhalchandra Nemade ... Lewis Carroll, John Lennon, Bob Dylan, Sylvia Plath, Ted Hughes, Godse Bhatji ... Kabir, Robert Johnson, Muddy Waters, Leadbelly, Howling Wolf, John Lee Hooker ... Kurosawa, Eisenstein, Truffaut, Woody Guthrie, Laurel and Hardy.\" This is probably as good an intellectual history of Indian literature as any other. Uncontained by either genre or nationality, it happens to contain two figures - the \"untouchable\" Dalit poet Namdeo Dhasal and the Marathi novelist-critic Bhalchandra Nemade - who'll also be making their way this week to London. It remains to be seen if any of the others mentioned will put in an appearance.I recommend Namdeo Dhasal: Poet of the Underworld (1972-2006). It is raw, disturbing stuff. I don't agree with his politics now (he supports the Hindutva brigade), but his work should be read because it tells of what a brutal society we live in.Arundhati Roy, novelistPublished in England by the Hogarth Press in 1940 - and championed by Woolf and Forster - Ahmed Ali's Twilight in Delhi was one of the first Indian novels to create a stir among literary circles in England. And not just among literary circles - the printers refused, at first, to publish it because of its critical comments about colonial rule. Set in Old Delhi in 1911 at the time of George V's coronation ceremony, it describes the life of Mir Nihal and his family. They live in a world conscious that its glory days (during the Mughal empire) have long since passed. Ali's style may seem ornate to some readers, but his description of the dying world of Delhi is gloriously atmospheric, and the rhythms of the language pull you in. Kamila Shamsie, novelistQurratulain Hyder, novelist, short story writer and prose stylist of rare accomplishment, is one of Urdu's greatest writers. Literary critic Aamer Hussein has compared her to her contemporaries, Milan Kundera and Gabriel Garcia Marquez, as \"one of the world's major writers: eclectic, iconoclastic and versatile\". In her 30s, she wrote her magnum opus, Aag ka Darya - published in English for the first time in 1998 as River of Fire - a great river of a novel, majestic in its sweep, grand in its vision. She maintained that writing can encompass \"fact, reportage, imagination, documentary presentation, the epistolary form\", even cinematic treatment. All her novels, novellas and short stories are a testament to this belief, as well as to her cosmopolitanism and uncompromising secularism. Ritu Menon, founder of Women Unlimited, India's oldest feminist pressDaniyal Mueenuddin's outstanding collection of short stories, In Other Rooms, Other Wonders, is rooted in a rural landscape, like the stories of RK Narayan, but is far blacker than Narayan's work, with the trajectory of each story ending in a shell-burst of loss and tragedy. Mueenuddin looks for inspiration not to the writing of south Asia but to Turgenev and Chekov, and the bleakness of vision of Dostoyevsky or Gogol. His Pakistan is visually beautiful - there are wonderful sketches of the rhythms of the landscape with its clouds and banyan trees and mango orchards, its sugar-cane fields and the sound of \"water running through the reeds in the canal\" - but it is also brutal and savage. Other Rooms is quite unlike anything recently published in India, and throws the gauntlet down to a new generation of Indian writers. Pakistan as a force in literature seems to be gaining greater momentum every day.William Dalrymple, writerFew writers have travelled so far - literally and metaphorically - as a young woman born in 1968 in a village in the Tiruchy district of Tamil Nadu in southern India. Rokkaiah dropped out of school in the 9th grade, and was married off early and against her will to a conservative Muslim family (like her own). She started writing poetry at the age of 13, and, despite strong familial pressure to stop, continued - writing under cover of night, and publishing under a pseudonym, Salma, that would soon be known throughout the state and beyond. Salma has published two collections of poetry, Oru Malaiyum, Innoru Malaiyum (\"One Evening, Another Evening\") and Pachai Devadhai (\"The Green Goddess\") - powerful, lyrical and explicit explorations of women's lives trapped in their homes. Along with three other poets, Salma in 2003 faced charges of obscenity (as well as death-threats). A female Muslim writer in India is a rarity; one who writes with such frankness about sex and sexuality is even rarer. On top of this, being an active and respected local politician and social activist makes Salma unique.Anita Roy, Zubaan BooksNirad C Chaudhuri is seen as an anachronism now, though in the 1960s VS Naipaul wrote that his Autobiography of an Unknown Indian was \"the one great book to come out of the Indo-English encounter\". Chaudhuri loved to be a controversialist, \"to make mischief\", as he put it, and he spent the last half of his very long life (1897-1999) upsetting as many people and orthodoxies as he could find the time to meet or examine. Chaudhuri was a genuine polymath. He wrote studies of Hinduism and biographies of Robert Clive and Max Mueller, and most of his work was marked by pugnacious and often wrong-headed judgments. But Autobiography and its sequel Thy Hand, Great Anarch! give a wonderful picture of Indian life in the first half of the last century, as well as of the author's remarkable progress from a Bengali village to a flat in north Oxford. No other Indian author has written so interestingly or frankly about himself, at least in the English language. Take the scene on the bridal bed after Chaudhuri and his new wife have just gone through their wedding rituals and are tentatively trying to get to know each other. As a great Europhile, Chaudhuri wants to know if she's heard any western classical music. She indicates that she hasn't. But has she heard of Beethoven? Yes. Can she perhaps spell his name? \"She said slowly: 'B, E, E, T, H, O, V, E, N.' I felt very encouraged. After that we talked about other things aimlessly and dozed off.\"Ian Jack, writer and editorSadaat Hasan Manto, who worked primarily as a scriptwriter in Bombay before partition, and moved to Pakistan, is the Indian Isaac Babel, a writer of dark, savage beauty, who portrayed the underbelly of Indian life like no other. I believe that the fiction coming out of Pakistan at the moment - by writers such as Mohammed Hanif, Moni Mohsin and Daniyal Mueenuddin - is the most interesting in the subcontinent. These writers are telling stories that we haven't heard before.Chiki Sarkar, editor-in-chief, Random House IndiaBetween history and memory lies the other side of Euclid's line in which Bhasha writers spin their magical worlds. Whether it is Vijaydan Detha or Naiyer Masud, Krishna Sobti or Paul Zacharia, they craft bold, alternative worlds. Yes, their writings stand for myriad imaginations across 3,300,000sq km of a linguistically exciting map. And yes, many talk of poverty and deprivation - but this is part of the global human predicament. But Bhasha writers are much more than just this. Many have a unique sense of humour and voice - vibrant, down-to-earth, alive. Dig deep with them to find where truth lies in the bewildering heterogeneity that is India. Geeta Dharmarajan, founder of the social organisation KathaGovardhan's Travels, by Anand (translated from Malayalam by Gita Krishnakutty) is a funny, skilful tale about the fate of the \"common man\". Bitingly satirical, Anand's novel (his real name is P Sachidanandan) is familiar to virtually every reader in the author's home state of Kerala, but unfortunately little known outside. The Bengali writer Mahashveta Devi calls it \"the most memorable literary event of my experience\".Urvashi Butalia, director and co-founder of Kali for WomenThe novels behind Satyajit Ray's films are great literature - Bibhutibhushan Bandopadhyay's Apu books, the works of Rabindranath Tagore, and others - many available in translation. Ray was an advertising man, tall and senatorial, a fan of Billy Wilder, and he wrote delightful children's books. His best-known are the Feluda series. The books tap into a childhood longing for mystery and detective work, but they appeal to all ages. Collections of his stories for adults remain available. His best-known book, however, is on films: Our Films Their FilmsShruti Debi, editor, Picador IndiaPublished bilingually in English and Hindi, Diddi - My mother's Voice was written by Ira Pande as a tribute to her mother, the Hindi writer Shivani. The author of more than 40 books, many of which were serialised in the literary magazine Dharmayug, Shivani had a fanatical following among her millions of readers. After her death in 2003, her daughter Ira translated a selection of her writings into English, with a commentary on her charismatic mother, and their proud and eccentric Brahmin family. She wrote the same commentary in Hindi, interspersing the original stories with personal insights. Set in the Kumaon hills in the lower Himalayas, her narrative brings fiction and memoir together into a compelling portrait of a changing society. Namita Gokhale, writer and co-director of the Jaipur literature festivalPoet, short story writer, essayist, novelist, script writer and director, Premendra Mitra (1904-1988) was a prominent figure in the cultural life of Bengal. His outstanding contribution to Bengali literature was the character Ghanshyam Das or Ghana-da. Living in an all-male hostel and rarely stepping out of it, Ghana-da spins tall tales that take us to exotic locations: the Malaysian rainforests, the South Sea Islands, the Arctic and the Antarctic. There is a constant supply of food - several rounds of mutton chops and prawn cutlets - and cigarettes as this ageless raconteur mesmerises his listeners with stories of his bravado. This lovable, legendary character, reminiscent of Baron M\u00fcnchausen, and as delightful as Herg\u00e9's Tintin, is an all-time favourite.Diya Kar Hazra, editor, Penguin India\u2022 For further information on the British Council's India '09 at the London book fair, go to: londonbookfair.co.uk or britishcouncil.org/india", "tags": ["Books", "Culture", "India", "World news", "London book fair"], "title": "Amit Chaudhuri on the new generation of Indian writers"},{"date": "2009-05-20T23:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Compared to what is happening in Sri Lanka and Pakistan, or indeed in a wider region not noted for democratic engagement, the elections in India are both to be saluted and celebrated. Saluted because the election shows a popular commitment to democracy, which goes back long before the arrival of the British, to the village parliament or panchayat. Celebrated because it produced the right result. The pundits, who to a man, predicted a weak and fractious coalition dependent on regional leaders, were stuffed. So was the rightwing Hindu nationalist BJP, which lost a large amount of territory. Congress was returned not just with a strong mandate but a national one.This is important for the renewal of a 124-year-old party deemed to be in irreversible decline. It is even more important for the prime minister, Manmohan Singh, who invested substantial amounts of political as well as financial capital in a project during his first term, which defied conventional wisdom. The National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA) provides 100 days of unskilled labour at the minimum wage to at least one member of a rural household. As an unashamed handout, the scheme has many critics. But as a substitute for absent social welfare, NREGA was a vote-winner. If Mr Singh is right to say that India is fissiparous, with vast rural swaths untouched by 9% growth rates in the last three years, then the solution has to be giving the poorest states such as Bihar a slice, however thin, of the national cake. The massive social welfare schemes Mr Singh launched in his first term were instrumental in his return to power. It runs counter to the Anglo-Saxon model with which too much of the world fell in love, but India's economy can not be run exclusively for and by its English-speaking urban elites.If rural development emerged as the leitmotiv of the campaign, it is all the more surprising that India's new government should have yesterday named security and promoting Hindu-Muslim tolerance as its two priorities. It was, after all, the BJP which played the terror card with campaign ads showing its 81-year-old leader, LK Advani, pumping iron at the gym. And Mr Singh's resistance to calls for an attack on Pakistan after the Mumbai bombings did not emerge as an election issue. The BJP turned off voters with its strident anti-Muslim rhetoric, and with the record of Narendra Modi, Gujarat's chief minister, who stood by during the riots in his state, in which 1,000 Muslims were killed. It is important to promote Hindu-Muslim tolerance, although this is not the central issue. But the part that a strong Indian government can play in regional security should not be underestimated. India's elites dislike being linked to a dysfunctional Pakistan, preferring to be ranked with China as a booming regional power. Delhi was horrified to think it would be included in Richard Holbrooke's Af-Pak regional remit, which in the end it was not. But none of that precludes the role that India could play in starting to defuse tensions with Pakistan over Kashmir. This could, in turn, work against the logic of Pakistan's military and security elites who persist in viewing India as the existential threat. Talks started under the now discredited Gen Pervez Musharraf. It would be extraordinarily difficult to continue under the fire of suicide squads trained on, and despatched from, Pakistani soil. It may not be easy to persuade India to make concessions on Kashmir to a weak government in Islamabad. But it is impossible to think of a regional Af-Pak solution without India. And it is all too easy to imagine a US withdrawal under fire if India is ignored. India is more than a country. It is also an idea, expressed by Gandhi, Nehru and Ambedkar (the untouchable who wrote so much of India's constitution). As India grows in regional importance, the challenge will be to express that idea clearly and attractively to others.", "tags": ["Indian elections 2009", "India"], "title": "India: The world's biggest vote"},{"date": "2009-05-08T23:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Diana Quick is telling me about the morning of her father's death. The actor, famous as Julia Flyte in the 1981 TV series Brideshead Revisited, was an 18-year-old student at Oxford Univeristy. Leonard Quick, a prosperous dentist, was 50. He was waking up in the family house in Kent when he had a heart attack. \"He was in his prime,\" his daughter, now 62, tells me. She is speaking softly, in a clipped voice. \"It was a coronary. He was taken to hospital and made comfortable; the belief was that they'd got it in time. But he had a second attack, and died.\"This moment, Quick says, marked a huge turning-point in her life. Before her father's death, she had led a charmed life. She had got into Oxford at 17 to study English literature and was not only beautiful and clever, but funny, too - she would soon be in The Oxford Line, a comedy revue, with John Sergeant, Simon Brett and Nigel Rees. She epitomised the 60s - one of those mini-skirted girls who were the first generation to go on the pill. She even knew Mick Jagger. On the morning of her father's death, Diana Quick was cycling, on a pink bicycle, to a lecture by Isaiah Berlin.When she got back to her college, Quick found a note in her pigeonhole. It said: \"Contact your tutor IMMEDIATELY.\" Her tutor, Kathleen Lea, told her to sit down. Everything that had happened before this moment had gone right for Diana Quick; later, her friends would tell her that she had been so confident that she was \"hard to take\". Her close friend Hermione Lee, also an Oxford student, would say: \"You were insufferable, you know.\"Kathleen Lea told her what had happened. Stunned, Quick made her way back home, to the heart of her grieving family. That day, she says, was a blur. She arrived at her parents' - now, suddenly, her mother's - big Edwardian villa on the outskirts of Dartford to be met by her mother, Joan, her older sister, Julie, and her brothers, Clive and Richard. They went together to see Leonard's body. Quick remembers that his ears were \"blackish-blue\" with pooled blood, and that this was the thing that made her sure, beyond any doubt, that he was really dead.\"You don't consider it, do you?\" she says. \"You feel immortal and you feel those about you are. Very few people I knew had died. I didn't really think about getting old and dying.\" There is a silence, while we both think the same thought. Leonard Quick was not old. \"He was 50,\" she says. \"From where I am now, that seems cruelly young.\"But his death was hugely significant in another way. Until that moment, his daughter had known virtually nothing about his early life. And now she was full of questions. For one thing, his funeral was to be at a Catholic church. She hadn't known he was a Catholic. She knew he had grown up in India, arrived in England at the age of 17 and never went home. She had met his father and stepmother, her grandparents, only twice, briefly, even though they had moved from the subcontinent to Surrey. She hadn't really questioned the fact that the two senior Quicks, Bertie and Nora, had never visited their son's house. Their names were hardly mentioned. Why?\"I had an intimation that there was something I didn't know,\" says Quick. \"It was never discussed. My father was a very warm, gregarious, sociable person who had many interests. He lived his life very much in the present, full of activities and the next project. He had many hobbies. He was not given to retrospection. There are lots of things that I would have wanted to know about his life, that I suddenly couldn't ask. And my mother blocked any questions about it - she either didn't know, or she wasn't telling.\" I am talking to Quick in the bar of a London hotel across from the Thames; she says she has spent the last 10 years looking for the answers to the questions her mother wouldn't answer. The result of those 10 years is A Tug on the Thread, one of the best family memoirs I've read in a long time. Quick - who, as a young actor, was photographed in French Vogue by Cecil Beaton and was once described as \"the most beautiful woman in the world\" - is still good-looking. She is dressed in practical trousers and a white shirt. The impression I get is of a fierce intellect just beginning to blossom - she spent years playing alluring, mysterious women, then years playing slightly older women who were cracking up, and then, as she puts it, a series of \"bonking grannies\".She has been married, once, to the actor Kenneth Cranham, and had a long relationship, now over, with the actor Bill Nighy, with whom she has a 24-year-old daughter, Mary. Her divorce from Cranham was amicable: \"We went Dutch on the divorce; it cost us \u00a316 each.\" There was no acrimony over the splitting up of household items - on the contrary, it was all \"No - you take it.\" Later, she introduced Cranham to Charlotte Cornwell, with whom he had a daughter. Although, she says, the two have split up, her daughter with Nighy and Cranham's daughter with Cornwell have an almost-sisterly relationship. Quick seems uncomfortable talking about Nighy. All she will say is that they were together and now they are not. And that she lives in the house she shared with Nighy \"with friends - it's a very good arrangement\". And that a married man propositioned her recently. \"He explained to me that his parents, who were public figures, had a 19th-century marriage. I said: 'What does that mean?' And he said: 'You get the heir and the spare, and you do what you like.' And I said: 'Well, I'm not old-fashioned enough for that.'\"Still, she's quite bohemian and laid-back. But her characters are usually uptight and controlling: women who are obsessed with propriety and who cut off their families. For instance, there was Eva in the Diane Samuels play Kindertransport, a Jewish woman whose mother had saved her from the Nazis by putting her on a train bound for England. Later, when the mother reappears in Eva's life, she rejects her - because, as Quick says, \"the cost of re-opening those old wounds is too high\". Then there was Murielle in Simone de Beauvoir's play The Woman Destroyed - a tragic, spiteful bitch who alienates her husbands and children. And Mrs Alving in Ibsen's Ghosts, who has spent her life trying to cover up the unsavoury facts about her husband, and destroys herself in the process. And, of course, Julia Flyte, who, like her father (played by Laurence Olivier in the television series), spends her life denying her Catholic faith, only to be pulled back towards it by, in Evelyn Waugh's phrase, \"a twitch upon the thread\". This, of course, is why Quick calls her book A Tug on the Thread. She came from a family steeped in denial, and it is this denial that she has been playing out ever since. For the book, she traced her family history back to her great-grandfather, Christopher Quick, who enlisted in the army as a teenager and sailed to India in the early 1870s. He had a drink problem and spent some time in jail. At the age of 32, he married an Anglo-Indian woman - someone whose parentage included both English and Indian forebears. The couple had three Anglo-Indian children, one of whom was Bertie, the grandfather who ended up in Surrey but was never mentioned in Diana's house.Bertie Quick did well. He became a dental surgeon in the foothills of the Himalayas, and also a general surgeon who patched up soldiers wounded in skirmishes on the north-west frontier. He had three children, one of whom was Leonard, and two houses. But, as an Anglo-Indian, he was never admitted to the pukka clubs - he would always be outside the pale. However, he had a plan: he would encourage Leonard to study dentistry in England, so that when his son came back home, Bertie could join forces with him in a newly anglicised practice. It would be enough, just, to bring the Quicks back from the pale, and possibly enough to satisfy Bertie's horribly snobbish second wife, Nora.But it was not to be. When Leonard went to London to study dentistry at Guy's hospital, he fell in love with Joan, Diana's mother. He didn't want to come back. And so began a titanic struggle. Bertie cut off Leonard's money; Leonard nearly went hungry; Leonard could see no way of completing his studies, and therefore becoming a dentist and able to marry Joan. But Joan's father lent Leonard the money he needed to get himself through his course. Leonard married Joan, and was cut off by his family in India. Later, as the Raj began to crumble, Bertie and Nora moved to England, where they had never lived. Leonard and Bertie never spoke. Bertie died in 1966; he outlived Leonard by six months. Neither Diana nor her siblings have any memories of Bertie at Leonard's funeral.One of the things that Quick has done so well is to show how the forces of snobbery and racism work their way through families, generation after generation. She has also written a book that describes the social conditions in the Raj better than almost any other I have read. She talked to many Anglo-Indians, some of whom \"passed for white\"; one man would only speak under a cloak of secrecy. He lived in the home counties and everybody thought he was English. \"He thought his friends would look at him differently,\" says Quick - and he might have been right. \"He kept saying: 'Let sleeping dogs lie.'\"She misses her father. If he was still alive, he'd be in his 90s now. \"I'd have had a companion,\" she says, \"because we always did get along so well. But if he hadn't died, I don't think I'd have got to know my mother in the way that I did.\" She spent a lot of time with her mother - years of mother-and-daughter holidays. Joan Quick died three years ago, of Parkinson's disease, in her early 90s.She remembers with huge fondness her childhood home: the big villa with bow windows and a balcony added by Joan's father. \"It was very warm and welcoming; there were lots of nooks and crannies. There was room to go away and have privacy, which is something I always craved. The house, she says, was always untidy. Always full of people. \"Always ringing with 'Has anybody seen my...?' and 'Who's had that?' And if you opened any cupboard, half of its contents would fall out.\"My parents liked to go dancing, and they encouraged all of us to bring our friends home. My brother had a skiffle group, and there would often be dancing in the house. And my parents would come and dance with us.\" I can imagine them, too - the teenage Quick, dancing; her brother and his friends bashing out the music; and Leonard and Joan joining in. Perhaps it is 1965. Diana Quick doesn't know it yet, but this is the end of her charmed life.\u2022 A Tug on the Thread: From the British Raj to the British Stage by Diana Quick is published by Virago at \u00a317.99 and is available at the Guardian bookshop.", "tags": ["Family", "British identity and society", "Life and style", "UK news"], "title": "Diana Quick discovers a passage from India"},{"date": "2009-04-17T23:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The theme of the London book fair this year is Indian writing. Vikram Seth, Amartya Sen, William Dalrymple and other writers in frequent circulation in this country are going to be joined by writers - K Satchidanandan, Javed Akhtar - distinguished or popular on their own terrain but less known here, for five days of discussions and celebrations. Something like this happened in 2006 to the Frankfurt book fair, when planeloads of Indian novelists and poets descended on the Intercontinental Hotel, waved to each other over breakfast, and then read from their work to courteous audiences in the afternoons and evenings.The theme then, too, was India; and the \"idea of India\" acted as a catalyst to a process that might have already begun, but received, at that moment, a recognisable impetus - the confluence, in one place, of literary and intellectual dialogue with what is basically business activity, each bringing magic and movement to the other. The India-themed Paris book fair followed swiftly.Both these events proved a few things. Firstly, you were reminded of the variety of genres that Indian writers - especially those who write in languages other than English - had practised for much of the 20th century. In the hotel lobbies, the caf\u00e9s and restaurants in adjoining streets, not to speak of the venues, you kept running into poets, critics, short-story writers, historians, playwrights from the many Indian literatures; and, of course, novelists. The English language had, it would seem, only thrown up novelists in India in the last 30 years; the truth is that there were and are excellent English-language poets, but few, or none, had been invited.As to the writers from the more troubled regions outside the metropolitan suburbs in which English alone was spoken, you could see, if you scratched the surface of their slightly bureaucratic veneer, that they possessed an eclecticism of taste and literary predilections, a formal curiosity, as well as a true multilingualism, that made them quite akin - paradoxically for brown men wandering about the streets of Frankfurt and Paris - to the breed of writers once called \"European\". However, no one, I think, asked them about their relationship to Europe, though each of them would have had an answer to the question; this was a reminder of the odd discrepancy between language - and I don't just mean English and French and Hindi - and vantage-point and intention that sometimes characterised interactions between audiences and writers.The other thing that hit you was the amount of money the Indian government had to spare for culture; it was one of the main sponsors of these events, and had made these migratory, crowded, but characteristically desultory congregations possible. Why now? And just how much thought had gone into the meetings and readings? Perhaps a great deal more could have been done over the decades following independence to give us a greater and more acute sense of our literary history as moderns, especially as more funding seemed to have been available than had been assumed. We in India have no equivalent of the Modern Library, for instance, nor anything like the Penguin Modern European Poets series, let alone properly influential critical and scholarly work on 20th-century literature. Are the book fairs, with their new kind of commingling, sending out a hint - perhaps an unintended one - about the timeliness of such initiatives to their organisers?Another revealing aspect of Frankfurt and Paris was the evidently unconstricted and even unpredictable way foreign rights were sold by Indian publishers (without, necessarily, British mediation) to European countries: this explained the random mix of celebrities and little-known practitioners, of the \"latest thing\" in Indian writing in English as well as the older and occasionally infirm writers (members of a deceased avant-garde) in the Indian languages. Some of these people have hardly been translated into English, but are often available in French or German, and there are students writing doctorates on their work. The putative common pool of the Indo-European languages (established at first in the late 18th century by a Welshman, William Jones, and put into circulation in Europe by the Germans Schlegel, Schiller, Goethe and later Max Mueller) probably - who knows? - still stirs faintly in the memory of European academia as it hardly does in the Anglo-Saxon world. Or, possibly, the fact that these countries have less of a direct relationship with India than Britain allows for the frequently hit-or-miss but sometimes surprising nature of the Indian list on the European publishers' catalogues. What will London bring that Frankfurt and Paris haven't? Certainly, it seems to have taken the cue from the two European cities in at least one regard: it hasn't invited only those writers who are published in this country - that is, Anglophone writers of prose. So, for instance, we will have, besides Vikram Seth, Ramachandra Guha and Patrick French, the Urdu-language theorist Gopi Chand Narang, the Bengali poet and novelist Sunil Ganguly, and the English-language poet and novelist Mamang Dai from the idyllic, remote Arunachal Pradesh. In other words, the book fair should bring some intimation to audiences in London of an explosion in writing that is not 30 but perhaps 200 years old, the consequence of a venerable, many-tongued, and still astonishing lineage in modernism.There will also be two writers who have aired their disagreements with each other in these pages - the Englishman William Radice, poet, translator of Tagore, and, until recently, poet laureate-aspirant, and the younger Jeet Thayil, poet, critic, editor of an anthology of Indian poetry in English, and defender (odd but instructive that it should need defending even now, in a way that Indian fiction no longer does) of the continued viability of Indian English poetry. Not all of these choices are risky ones; many of these writers (myself included) now spend a fair amount of time in the ghostly, mnemonic world of international book fairs, in their guise as crowded transit lounges for the nation; here we wait, eat, talk to each other, ignore acquaintances, as the difference between airport, venue and hotel gradually diminishes. But does this journey lead somewhere? Will it change the way Indian writing is configured within British publishing?How does travel shape and qualify writing and nationality (a common enough conundrum), especially when they take on this form - the transcontinental literary event; the book reading in a foreign location? And how do these writers cohere and relate to each other in our minds: what is it, besides the book fair and perhaps the place of birth on their passports or some long-standing enthusiasm, that makes K Satchidanandan and Tarun J Tejpal and Dalrymple all, in some sense, \"Indian\" writers? One thing we do know is that travel is not only about bringing your particular skills, wares, identity and lineage to a place, but being changed by, and learning from, the act of travelling and facing up to foreignness. In roughly the past 20 years India has changed from being a Nehruvian nation-state - an experiment and ideal in democracy - to a portable mode of existence, as well as a form of self-justification for a curious mixture of free-market opportunism and a slyly conservative provincialism. This means that Indians, as they travel, migrate and resettle, have increasingly begun to deflect the problem - and the rewards - of encountering foreignness, and strangeness, and the notion of \"India\" has helped them in (has, in fact, been crucial to) this deflection. The so-called Indian diaspora ceased, really, to want either to integrate with, or radically revise, the landscape they moved to in the 1980s and 90s (usually, the United States, succeeding the earlier wave of immigration to Britain); instead, they wished to conform silently and, simultaneously, to continue as themselves. This has led to a unique combination of acceptance and denial. In 2002, spending some months in America, I found an array of young first-generation Indian settlers in the more well-to-do suburbs of New Jersey and Atlanta, almost entirely, and pretty aggressively, committed to American foreign policy and the Bush dispensation, and yet also clinging to Indian film songs and DVDs and food and marriages, a universe on which contemporary American culture, and Americans themselves, impinged only rarely. This was one of the many recognisable versions of \"India\" that have sprung up in the last two decades, where \"foreignness\" does not actually occur in any compelling way. Jhumpa Lahiri has only recently begun to hint - with a delicate abstention from the obvious - at the silence that surrounds this microcosm, in the stories in her bestselling collection Unaccustomed EarthSo much of what the Indian middle class sees as its ideal present and its possible future, including its thoughts on the role of literature, emanates from, or emerges in relation to, these American suburbs. In a survey undertaken last year, it turned out that India lagged behind America alone in its love for that country and for George Bush. (\"India\" here is a metonym for the middle class, and vice versa.) In the Clinton era, and even more pronouncedly in the Bush era, the US came to be seen as a facilitator of India's own teeming, importunate ambitions, for its true place in the world, and, therefore, as a familial figure, in keeping with the Indian middle class's interpretation of family, as an institution that is primarily a guarantor of self-interest. When India looks at America, it sees a comforting or discomfiting (according to the phase of history it then inhabits) extension of its own welfare - much in the way that a child invents its mother. This version of the familial also seems to direct the way a large number of Anglophone Indians view what they think of as literature. Their incongruously intimate, emotion-prone and proprietorial relationship with the Booker prize is a case in point. Here, feelings of self-approbation and self-doubt characterise the response to the outcome; and rarely was this inability to escape anxieties to do with prestige clearer than in 2008, when there were two Indians on the shortlist. An uneasy family drama ensued in India, with scorn being poured on one Indian, Aravind Adiga, and felicitations being made prematurely to the other, Amitav Ghosh. When Adiga won, there was patrician outrage; national - or family - pride had been violated. Word had soon got out in the British press that the other serious contender for the prize besides Adiga, as far as the judges were concerned, was Sebastian Barry. This Irish writer, however, hardly penetrated the Indian consciousness, and nor had the others on the list besides the two mentioned; the heterogeneity of Anglophone writing is not something that Indians are any longer prepared to do business with. Similarly, there's a sense, in the context of the new, middle-class Indian, of an end to the notion of travel as disjunction and discovery.Travel, anyway, shapes the literary festival, the book fair, in paradoxically enclosing ways, and with a degree of unreality. You cover great distances, sometimes, to arrive at the literary festival, but the festival itself is a province, an enclosure. This special provincialism and curious lack of movement becomes more intense when the theme is nationality, or a national literature, as has been the case with the \"international\" festivals concerning India this century. It started in 2002 at Neemrana, a heritage fort outside Delhi converted into a luxury hotel, where the Indian Council for Cultural Relations hosted the first India-themed literary conference, a gathering of well-known writers with the polarising figure of VS Naipaul at the centre. For three days, the writers read from and discussed their work to and with each other; there was access neither to the public nor to the world outside the ancient fortress walls. It was a bit like a Walter de la Mare ghost story, with several sinister and incredible possibilities hanging in the air simultaneously; and the feeling of circularity and repetition was confirmed later, when the conference moved to Delhi and was opened to the public, and India turned out to be almost the only point of reference in the conversations and the questions and answers. Personally, I think I could find out more about myself by asking Ian Jack (to take a random example; he wasn't present at Neemrana) what he thinks about Hugh MacDiarmid or Muriel Spark, or the Scottish education system in the 60s, or his experiences as a newspaper editor in Thatcher's England, than by interrogating him on India; this is because we're both - as a Bengali and a Scotsman - historical beings invested and implicated in the 20th and unfolding 21st centuries, and will address each other most profoundly, despite our differences, only by addressing our own deepest memories about ourselves. I think the Scotsman understands this, which is why he doesn't constantly ask me what I think about Scotland; but I wonder if the Indian does. To constantly look for yourself even when you encounter the foreign is never to travel; while we know that it's in observing and overhearing others as we journey that we often discover unexpected dimensions of ourselves.The question, then, is whether, and in what ways, the literary festival or book fair (in Frankfurt or Paris or Delhi or London) can open up to the fact of foreignness and travel. In Paris, I remember, most of us stayed in our hotel rooms, or idly explored the huge, over-populated venue; on the bus between hotel and venue, I said to the Kannada novelist UR Anantha Murthy (who will be present in London), \"Is that the real Eiffel tower?\" - for we'd seen it from many angles outside the bus window in the last day and a half, illuminated during the night, deceptively proximate by daylight, a consoling fiction. Anantha Murthy shook his head gravely at its dogged ubiquity, at the very fact that the tower outside the window denoted at once that we were irrefutably in Paris and yet never in it, and said: \"To escape the Eiffel tower you have to go inside it,\" adding, with a smile: \"I think it was Barthes who said that.\" Much the same could be said of identity and nationality; that, for their monumental, visible qualities to evaporate, you have to somehow disappear into them. Anantha Murthy's (for me, utterly surprising) remark made me aware, momentarily, of the contingencies of travel and literature in a way that few of the seminars did: that I knew almost as little, or as much, about his sensibility as I did about Paris.This admission brings me back to the question: how are Indian writers located within a single space - a hotel lobby; a seminar room; a tradition - actually related to each other? I asked myself this for the first time as I began to put together, at the beginning of the 2000s, The Picador Book of Modern Indian Literature: what, for example, connected the 19th-century Bengali poet Michael Madhusudan Dutt to Salman Rushdie, Rushdie to UR Anantha Murthy, and Anantha Murthy to Vikram Seth? The generic word \"Indian\" by itself provided no key. But the idea of travel did - not just travel within these writers' lives, but form and canon and genre themselves being kinds of travel, of experiencing the foreign. Anantha Murthy had discovered his subject-matter - an existential tale about a Brahmin set in rural Karnataka - while watching Bergman's The Seventh Seal, without subtitles, in Birmingham with his supervisor Malcolm Bradbury; Rushdie had read The Tin Drum in an almost auditory mode (he could hear the resounding drumbeat) and had also been studying Bu\u00f1uel and Satyajit Ray; Dutt, in the early 1860s, had begun to refine the sonnet in the Bengali language in the melancholy of Versailles; while Seth, more than a 100 years later, had been struck by the ebullience of Pushkin's use of the tetrameter and the sonnet in Eugene Onegin. All this - that is, the movements and paths along which Indian literature had been shaped in the past 200 years - had occurred before fax machines and the internet had come into existence; before the knowledge that accrues with travel had become information, and when travel was still a code for survival and daydreaming, and almost an unspoken faith.Tagore came to England as an unhappy teenager in 1878, and heard western music properly almost for the first time; more than 40 years later, in what might be read as a gesture of reciprocity, he arranged for the Bauhaus artists' works to be exhibited in Calcutta. In the early 1960s, Allen Ginsberg and Peter Orlovsky came to India, hung out with the avant-garde Calcutta poets (of whom one, Sunil Ganguly, will be attending the London book fair in a more canonical incarnation), went to Bombay and met, among others, the poets Arun Kolatkar, Adil Jussawalla and Nissim Ezekiel, and returned to America with various manifestos and poems ready for translation. Around this time, and very soon after Robert Lowell published his Imitations, the bilingual Arun Kolatkar (who died five years ago) had begun to compose his extraordinary contemporary versions in English of the Marathi medieval devotional saint-poet Tukaram. When I think of these moments, I'm reminded afresh of the emergence of literature as a network and a form of complex, far-flung exchange, long before the emergence of \"information\" and present-day modes of travel. It's this mystery that informs the list of \"favourite\" writers Kolatkar provides for an Indian interviewer in a mood of exasperation and mischievousness, a list in which the dead and the living, like and unlike, mingle disconcertingly: \"Whitman, Mardhekar, Manmohan, Eliot, Pound, Auden, Hart Crane, Dylan Thomas, Kafka, Baudelaire, Heine, Catullus, Villon, Dnyaneshwar, Namdev, Janabai, Eknath, Tukaram, Wang Wei. Tu Fu, Han Shan ... Mandelshtam, Dostoevsky, Gogol, Isaac Bashevis Singer, Babel, Apollinaire, Breton, Brecht, Neruda, Ginsberg ... Henry Miller, Nabokov, Namdeo Dhasal, Patthe Bapurav, Rabelais ... Rex Stout, Agatha Christie ... Bhalchandra Nemade ... Lewis Carroll, John Lennon, Bob Dylan, Sylvia Plath, Ted Hughes, Godse Bhatji ... Kabir, Robert Johnson, Muddy Waters, Leadbelly, Howling Wolf, John Lee Hooker ... Kurosawa, Eisenstein, Truffaut, Woody Guthrie, Laurel and Hardy.\" This is probably as good an intellectual history of Indian literature as any other. Uncontained by either genre or nationality, it happens to contain two figures - the \"untouchable\" Dalit poet Namdeo Dhasal and the Marathi novelist-critic Bhalchandra Nemade - who'll also be making their way this week to London. It remains to be seen if any of the others mentioned will put in an appearance.I recommend Namdeo Dhasal: Poet of the Underworld (1972-2006). It is raw, disturbing stuff. I don't agree with his politics now (he supports the Hindutva brigade), but his work should be read because it tells of what a brutal society we live in.Arundhati Roy, novelistPublished in England by the Hogarth Press in 1940 - and championed by Woolf and Forster - Ahmed Ali's Twilight in Delhi was one of the first Indian novels to create a stir among literary circles in England. And not just among literary circles - the printers refused, at first, to publish it because of its critical comments about colonial rule. Set in Old Delhi in 1911 at the time of George V's coronation ceremony, it describes the life of Mir Nihal and his family. They live in a world conscious that its glory days (during the Mughal empire) have long since passed. Ali's style may seem ornate to some readers, but his description of the dying world of Delhi is gloriously atmospheric, and the rhythms of the language pull you in. Kamila Shamsie, novelistQurratulain Hyder, novelist, short story writer and prose stylist of rare accomplishment, is one of Urdu's greatest writers. Literary critic Aamer Hussein has compared her to her contemporaries, Milan Kundera and Gabriel Garcia Marquez, as \"one of the world's major writers: eclectic, iconoclastic and versatile\". In her 30s, she wrote her magnum opus, Aag ka Darya - published in English for the first time in 1998 as River of Fire - a great river of a novel, majestic in its sweep, grand in its vision. She maintained that writing can encompass \"fact, reportage, imagination, documentary presentation, the epistolary form\", even cinematic treatment. All her novels, novellas and short stories are a testament to this belief, as well as to her cosmopolitanism and uncompromising secularism. Ritu Menon, founder of Women Unlimited, India's oldest feminist pressDaniyal Mueenuddin's outstanding collection of short stories, In Other Rooms, Other Wonders, is rooted in a rural landscape, like the stories of RK Narayan, but is far blacker than Narayan's work, with the trajectory of each story ending in a shell-burst of loss and tragedy. Mueenuddin looks for inspiration not to the writing of south Asia but to Turgenev and Chekov, and the bleakness of vision of Dostoyevsky or Gogol. His Pakistan is visually beautiful - there are wonderful sketches of the rhythms of the landscape with its clouds and banyan trees and mango orchards, its sugar-cane fields and the sound of \"water running through the reeds in the canal\" - but it is also brutal and savage. Other Rooms is quite unlike anything recently published in India, and throws the gauntlet down to a new generation of Indian writers. Pakistan as a force in literature seems to be gaining greater momentum every day.William Dalrymple, writerFew writers have travelled so far - literally and metaphorically - as a young woman born in 1968 in a village in the Tiruchy district of Tamil Nadu in southern India. Rokkaiah dropped out of school in the 9th grade, and was married off early and against her will to a conservative Muslim family (like her own). She started writing poetry at the age of 13, and, despite strong familial pressure to stop, continued - writing under cover of night, and publishing under a pseudonym, Salma, that would soon be known throughout the state and beyond. Salma has published two collections of poetry, Oru Malaiyum, Innoru Malaiyum (\"One Evening, Another Evening\") and Pachai Devadhai (\"The Green Goddess\") - powerful, lyrical and explicit explorations of women's lives trapped in their homes. Along with three other poets, Salma in 2003 faced charges of obscenity (as well as death-threats). A female Muslim writer in India is a rarity; one who writes with such frankness about sex and sexuality is even rarer. On top of this, being an active and respected local politician and social activist makes Salma unique.Anita Roy, Zubaan BooksNirad C Chaudhuri is seen as an anachronism now, though in the 1960s VS Naipaul wrote that his Autobiography of an Unknown Indian was \"the one great book to come out of the Indo-English encounter\". Chaudhuri loved to be a controversialist, \"to make mischief\", as he put it, and he spent the last half of his very long life (1897-1999) upsetting as many people and orthodoxies as he could find the time to meet or examine. Chaudhuri was a genuine polymath. He wrote studies of Hinduism and biographies of Robert Clive and Max Mueller, and most of his work was marked by pugnacious and often wrong-headed judgments. But Autobiography and its sequel Thy Hand, Great Anarch! give a wonderful picture of Indian life in the first half of the last century, as well as of the author's remarkable progress from a Bengali village to a flat in north Oxford. No other Indian author has written so interestingly or frankly about himself, at least in the English language. Take the scene on the bridal bed after Chaudhuri and his new wife have just gone through their wedding rituals and are tentatively trying to get to know each other. As a great Europhile, Chaudhuri wants to know if she's heard any western classical music. She indicates that she hasn't. But has she heard of Beethoven? Yes. Can she perhaps spell his name? \"She said slowly: 'B, E, E, T, H, O, V, E, N.' I felt very encouraged. After that we talked about other things aimlessly and dozed off.\"Ian Jack, writer and editorSadaat Hasan Manto, who worked primarily as a scriptwriter in Bombay before partition, and moved to Pakistan, is the Indian Isaac Babel, a writer of dark, savage beauty, who portrayed the underbelly of Indian life like no other. I believe that the fiction coming out of Pakistan at the moment - by writers such as Mohammed Hanif, Moni Mohsin and Daniyal Mueenuddin - is the most interesting in the subcontinent. These writers are telling stories that we haven't heard before.Chiki Sarkar, editor-in-chief, Random House IndiaBetween history and memory lies the other side of Euclid's line in which Bhasha writers spin their magical worlds. Whether it is Vijaydan Detha or Naiyer Masud, Krishna Sobti or Paul Zacharia, they craft bold, alternative worlds. Yes, their writings stand for myriad imaginations across 3,300,000sq km of a linguistically exciting map. And yes, many talk of poverty and deprivation - but this is part of the global human predicament. But Bhasha writers are much more than just this. Many have a unique sense of humour and voice - vibrant, down-to-earth, alive. Dig deep with them to find where truth lies in the bewildering heterogeneity that is India. Geeta Dharmarajan, founder of the social organisation KathaGovardhan's Travels, by Anand (translated from Malayalam by Gita Krishnakutty) is a funny, skilful tale about the fate of the \"common man\". Bitingly satirical, Anand's novel (his real name is P Sachidanandan) is familiar to virtually every reader in the author's home state of Kerala, but unfortunately little known outside. The Bengali writer Mahashveta Devi calls it \"the most memorable literary event of my experience\".Urvashi Butalia, director and co-founder of Kali for WomenThe novels behind Satyajit Ray's films are great literature - Bibhutibhushan Bandopadhyay's Apu books, the works of Rabindranath Tagore, and others - many available in translation. Ray was an advertising man, tall and senatorial, a fan of Billy Wilder, and he wrote delightful children's books. His best-known are the Feluda series. The books tap into a childhood longing for mystery and detective work, but they appeal to all ages. Collections of his stories for adults remain available. His best-known book, however, is on films: Our Films Their FilmsShruti Debi, editor, Picador IndiaPublished bilingually in English and Hindi, Diddi - My mother's Voice was written by Ira Pande as a tribute to her mother, the Hindi writer Shivani. The author of more than 40 books, many of which were serialised in the literary magazine Dharmayug, Shivani had a fanatical following among her millions of readers. After her death in 2003, her daughter Ira translated a selection of her writings into English, with a commentary on her charismatic mother, and their proud and eccentric Brahmin family. She wrote the same commentary in Hindi, interspersing the original stories with personal insights. Set in the Kumaon hills in the lower Himalayas, her narrative brings fiction and memoir together into a compelling portrait of a changing society. Namita Gokhale, writer and co-director of the Jaipur literature festivalPoet, short story writer, essayist, novelist, script writer and director, Premendra Mitra (1904-1988) was a prominent figure in the cultural life of Bengal. His outstanding contribution to Bengali literature was the character Ghanshyam Das or Ghana-da. Living in an all-male hostel and rarely stepping out of it, Ghana-da spins tall tales that take us to exotic locations: the Malaysian rainforests, the South Sea Islands, the Arctic and the Antarctic. There is a constant supply of food - several rounds of mutton chops and prawn cutlets - and cigarettes as this ageless raconteur mesmerises his listeners with stories of his bravado. This lovable, legendary character, reminiscent of Baron M\u00fcnchausen, and as delightful as Herg\u00e9's Tintin, is an all-time favourite.Diya Kar Hazra, editor, Penguin India\u2022 For further information on the British Council's India '09 at the London book fair, go to: londonbookfair.co.uk or britishcouncil.org/india", "tags": ["Books", "Culture", "India", "World news", "London book fair"], "title": "Amit Chaudhuri on the new generation of Indian writers"},{"date": "2009-05-20T23:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Compared to what is happening in Sri Lanka and Pakistan, or indeed in a wider region not noted for democratic engagement, the elections in India are both to be saluted and celebrated. Saluted because the election shows a popular commitment to democracy, which goes back long before the arrival of the British, to the village parliament or panchayat. Celebrated because it produced the right result. The pundits, who to a man, predicted a weak and fractious coalition dependent on regional leaders, were stuffed. So was the rightwing Hindu nationalist BJP, which lost a large amount of territory. Congress was returned not just with a strong mandate but a national one.This is important for the renewal of a 124-year-old party deemed to be in irreversible decline. It is even more important for the prime minister, Manmohan Singh, who invested substantial amounts of political as well as financial capital in a project during his first term, which defied conventional wisdom. The National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA) provides 100 days of unskilled labour at the minimum wage to at least one member of a rural household. As an unashamed handout, the scheme has many critics. But as a substitute for absent social welfare, NREGA was a vote-winner. If Mr Singh is right to say that India is fissiparous, with vast rural swaths untouched by 9% growth rates in the last three years, then the solution has to be giving the poorest states such as Bihar a slice, however thin, of the national cake. The massive social welfare schemes Mr Singh launched in his first term were instrumental in his return to power. It runs counter to the Anglo-Saxon model with which too much of the world fell in love, but India's economy can not be run exclusively for and by its English-speaking urban elites.If rural development emerged as the leitmotiv of the campaign, it is all the more surprising that India's new government should have yesterday named security and promoting Hindu-Muslim tolerance as its two priorities. It was, after all, the BJP which played the terror card with campaign ads showing its 81-year-old leader, LK Advani, pumping iron at the gym. And Mr Singh's resistance to calls for an attack on Pakistan after the Mumbai bombings did not emerge as an election issue. The BJP turned off voters with its strident anti-Muslim rhetoric, and with the record of Narendra Modi, Gujarat's chief minister, who stood by during the riots in his state, in which 1,000 Muslims were killed. It is important to promote Hindu-Muslim tolerance, although this is not the central issue. But the part that a strong Indian government can play in regional security should not be underestimated. India's elites dislike being linked to a dysfunctional Pakistan, preferring to be ranked with China as a booming regional power. Delhi was horrified to think it would be included in Richard Holbrooke's Af-Pak regional remit, which in the end it was not. But none of that precludes the role that India could play in starting to defuse tensions with Pakistan over Kashmir. This could, in turn, work against the logic of Pakistan's military and security elites who persist in viewing India as the existential threat. Talks started under the now discredited Gen Pervez Musharraf. It would be extraordinarily difficult to continue under the fire of suicide squads trained on, and despatched from, Pakistani soil. It may not be easy to persuade India to make concessions on Kashmir to a weak government in Islamabad. But it is impossible to think of a regional Af-Pak solution without India. And it is all too easy to imagine a US withdrawal under fire if India is ignored. India is more than a country. It is also an idea, expressed by Gandhi, Nehru and Ambedkar (the untouchable who wrote so much of India's constitution). As India grows in regional importance, the challenge will be to express that idea clearly and attractively to others.", "tags": ["Indian elections 2009", "India"], "title": "India: The world's biggest vote"},{"date": "2009-05-20T21:27:31Z", "country": "india", "content": "Compared to what is happening in Sri Lanka and Pakistan, or indeed in a wider region not noted for democratic engagement, the elections in India are both to be saluted and celebrated. Saluted because the election shows a popular commitment to democracy, which goes back long before the arrival of the British, to the village parliament or panchayat. Celebrated because it produced the right result. The pundits, who to a man, predicted a weak and fractious coalition dependent on regional leaders, were stuffed. So was the rightwing Hindu nationalist BJP, which lost a large amount of territory. Congress was returned not just with a strong mandate but a national one.This is important for the renewal of a 124-year-old party deemed to be in irreversible decline. It is even more important for the prime minister, Manmohan Singh, who invested substantial amounts of political as well as financial capital in a project during his first term, which defied conventional wisdom. The National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA) provides 100 days of unskilled labour at the minimum wage to at least one member of a rural household. As an unashamed handout, the scheme has many critics. But as a substitute for absent social welfare, NREGA was a vote-winner. If Mr Singh is right to say that India is fissiparous, with vast rural swaths untouched by 9% growth rates in the last three years, then the solution has to be giving the poorest states such as Bihar a slice, however thin, of the national cake. The massive social welfare schemes Mr Singh launched in his first term were instrumental in his return to power. It runs counter to the Anglo-Saxon model with which too much of the world fell in love, but India's economy can not be run exclusively for and by its English-speaking urban elites.If rural development emerged as the leitmotiv of the campaign, it is all the more surprising that India's new government should have yesterday named security and promoting Hindu-Muslim tolerance as its two priorities. It was, after all, the BJP which played the terror card with campaign ads showing its 81-year-old leader, LK Advani, pumping iron at the gym. And Mr Singh's resistance to calls for an attack on Pakistan after the Mumbai bombings did not emerge as an election issue. The BJP turned off voters with its strident anti-Muslim rhetoric, and with the record of Narendra Modi, Gujarat's chief minister, who stood by during the riots in his state, in which 1,000 Muslims were killed. It is important to promote Hindu-Muslim tolerance, although this is not the central issue.But the part that a strong Indian \u00adgovernment can play in regional security should not be underestimated. India's elites dislike being linked to a dysfunctional Pakistan, preferring to be ranked with China as a booming regional power. Delhi was horrified to think it would be included in Richard Holbrooke's Af-Pak regional remit, which in the end it was not. But none of that precludes the role that India could play in starting to defuse tensions with Pakistan over Kashmir. This could, in turn, work against the logic of Pakistan's military and security elites who persist in viewing India as the existential threat.Talks started under the now discredited Gen\u00a0Pervez Musharraf. It would be extraordinarily difficult to continue under the fire of suicide squads trained on, and despatched from, Pakistani soil. It may not be easy to persuade India to make concessions on Kashmir to a weak government in Islamabad. But it is impossible to think of a regional Af-Pak solution without India. And it is all too easy to imagine a US withdrawal under fire if India is ignored.India is more than a country. It is also an idea, expressed by Gandhi, Nehru and Ambedkar (the untouchable who wrote so much of India's constitution). As India grows in regional importance, the challenge will be to express that idea clearly and attractively to others.", "tags": ["Indian elections 2009", "India", "World news"], "title": "India, the world's biggest vote | Editorial"},{"date": "2009-05-08T23:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Diana Quick is telling me about the morning of her father's death. The actor, famous as Julia Flyte in the 1981 TV series Brideshead Revisited, was an 18-year-old student at Oxford Univeristy. Leonard Quick, a prosperous dentist, was 50. He was waking up in the family house in Kent when he had a heart attack. \"He was in his prime,\" his daughter, now 62, tells me. She is speaking softly, in a clipped voice. \"It was a coronary. He was taken to hospital and made comfortable; the belief was that they'd got it in time. But he had a second attack, and died.\"This moment, Quick says, marked a huge turning-point in her life. Before her father's death, she had led a charmed life. She had got into Oxford at 17 to study English literature and was not only beautiful and clever, but funny, too - she would soon be in The Oxford Line, a comedy revue, with John Sergeant, Simon Brett and Nigel Rees. She epitomised the 60s - one of those mini-skirted girls who were the first generation to go on the pill. She even knew Mick Jagger. On the morning of her father's death, Diana Quick was cycling, on a pink bicycle, to a lecture by Isaiah Berlin.When she got back to her college, Quick found a note in her pigeonhole. It said: \"Contact your tutor IMMEDIATELY.\" Her tutor, Kathleen Lea, told her to sit down. Everything that had happened before this moment had gone right for Diana Quick; later, her friends would tell her that she had been so confident that she was \"hard to take\". Her close friend Hermione Lee, also an Oxford student, would say: \"You were insufferable, you know.\"Kathleen Lea told her what had happened. Stunned, Quick made her way back home, to the heart of her grieving family. That day, she says, was a blur. She arrived at her parents' - now, suddenly, her mother's - big Edwardian villa on the outskirts of Dartford to be met by her mother, Joan, her older sister, Julie, and her brothers, Clive and Richard. They went together to see Leonard's body. Quick remembers that his ears were \"blackish-blue\" with pooled blood, and that this was the thing that made her sure, beyond any doubt, that he was really dead.\"You don't consider it, do you?\" she says. \"You feel immortal and you feel those about you are. Very few people I knew had died. I didn't really think about getting old and dying.\" There is a silence, while we both think the same thought. Leonard Quick was not old. \"He was 50,\" she says. \"From where I am now, that seems cruelly young.\"But his death was hugely significant in another way. Until that moment, his daughter had known virtually nothing about his early life. And now she was full of questions. For one thing, his funeral was to be at a Catholic church. She hadn't known he was a Catholic. She knew he had grown up in India, arrived in England at the age of 17 and never went home. She had met his father and stepmother, her grandparents, only twice, briefly, even though they had moved from the subcontinent to Surrey. She hadn't really questioned the fact that the two senior Quicks, Bertie and Nora, had never visited their son's house. Their names were hardly mentioned. Why?\"I had an intimation that there was something I didn't know,\" says Quick. \"It was never discussed. My father was a very warm, gregarious, sociable person who had many interests. He lived his life very much in the present, full of activities and the next project. He had many hobbies. He was not given to retrospection. There are lots of things that I would have wanted to know about his life, that I suddenly couldn't ask. And my mother blocked any questions about it - she either didn't know, or she wasn't telling.\" I am talking to Quick in the bar of a London hotel across from the Thames; she says she has spent the last 10 years looking for the answers to the questions her mother wouldn't answer. The result of those 10 years is A Tug on the Thread, one of the best family memoirs I've read in a long time. Quick - who, as a young actor, was photographed in French Vogue by Cecil Beaton and was once described as \"the most beautiful woman in the world\" - is still good-looking. She is dressed in practical trousers and a white shirt. The impression I get is of a fierce intellect just beginning to blossom - she spent years playing alluring, mysterious women, then years playing slightly older women who were cracking up, and then, as she puts it, a series of \"bonking grannies\".She has been married, once, to the actor Kenneth Cranham, and had a long relationship, now over, with the actor Bill Nighy, with whom she has a 24-year-old daughter, Mary. Her divorce from Cranham was amicable: \"We went Dutch on the divorce; it cost us \u00a316 each.\" There was no acrimony over the splitting up of household items - on the contrary, it was all \"No - you take it.\" Later, she introduced Cranham to Charlotte Cornwell, with whom he had a daughter. Although, she says, the two have split up, her daughter with Nighy and Cranham's daughter with Cornwell have an almost-sisterly relationship. Quick seems uncomfortable talking about Nighy. All she will say is that they were together and now they are not. And that she lives in the house she shared with Nighy \"with friends - it's a very good arrangement\". And that a married man propositioned her recently. \"He explained to me that his parents, who were public figures, had a 19th-century marriage. I said: 'What does that mean?' And he said: 'You get the heir and the spare, and you do what you like.' And I said: 'Well, I'm not old-fashioned enough for that.'\"Still, she's quite bohemian and laid-back. But her characters are usually uptight and controlling: women who are obsessed with propriety and who cut off their families. For instance, there was Eva in the Diane Samuels play Kindertransport, a Jewish woman whose mother had saved her from the Nazis by putting her on a train bound for England. Later, when the mother reappears in Eva's life, she rejects her - because, as Quick says, \"the cost of re-opening those old wounds is too high\". Then there was Murielle in Simone de Beauvoir's play The Woman Destroyed - a tragic, spiteful bitch who alienates her husbands and children. And Mrs Alving in Ibsen's Ghosts, who has spent her life trying to cover up the unsavoury facts about her husband, and destroys herself in the process. And, of course, Julia Flyte, who, like her father (played by Laurence Olivier in the television series), spends her life denying her Catholic faith, only to be pulled back towards it by, in Evelyn Waugh's phrase, \"a twitch upon the thread\". This, of course, is why Quick calls her book A Tug on the Thread. She came from a family steeped in denial, and it is this denial that she has been playing out ever since. For the book, she traced her family history back to her great-grandfather, Christopher Quick, who enlisted in the army as a teenager and sailed to India in the early 1870s. He had a drink problem and spent some time in jail. At the age of 32, he married an Anglo-Indian woman - someone whose parentage included both English and Indian forebears. The couple had three Anglo-Indian children, one of whom was Bertie, the grandfather who ended up in Surrey but was never mentioned in Diana's house.Bertie Quick did well. He became a dental surgeon in the foothills of the Himalayas, and also a general surgeon who patched up soldiers wounded in skirmishes on the north-west frontier. He had three children, one of whom was Leonard, and two houses. But, as an Anglo-Indian, he was never admitted to the pukka clubs - he would always be outside the pale. However, he had a plan: he would encourage Leonard to study dentistry in England, so that when his son came back home, Bertie could join forces with him in a newly anglicised practice. It would be enough, just, to bring the Quicks back from the pale, and possibly enough to satisfy Bertie's horribly snobbish second wife, Nora.But it was not to be. When Leonard went to London to study dentistry at Guy's hospital, he fell in love with Joan, Diana's mother. He didn't want to come back. And so began a titanic struggle. Bertie cut off Leonard's money; Leonard nearly went hungry; Leonard could see no way of completing his studies, and therefore becoming a dentist and able to marry Joan. But Joan's father lent Leonard the money he needed to get himself through his course. Leonard married Joan, and was cut off by his family in India. Later, as the Raj began to crumble, Bertie and Nora moved to England, where they had never lived. Leonard and Bertie never spoke. Bertie died in 1966; he outlived Leonard by six months. Neither Diana nor her siblings have any memories of Bertie at Leonard's funeral.One of the things that Quick has done so well is to show how the forces of snobbery and racism work their way through families, generation after generation. She has also written a book that describes the social conditions in the Raj better than almost any other I have read. She talked to many Anglo-Indians, some of whom \"passed for white\"; one man would only speak under a cloak of secrecy. He lived in the home counties and everybody thought he was English. \"He thought his friends would look at him differently,\" says Quick - and he might have been right. \"He kept saying: 'Let sleeping dogs lie.'\"She misses her father. If he was still alive, he'd be in his 90s now. \"I'd have had a companion,\" she says, \"because we always did get along so well. But if he hadn't died, I don't think I'd have got to know my mother in the way that I did.\" She spent a lot of time with her mother - years of mother-and-daughter holidays. Joan Quick died three years ago, of Parkinson's disease, in her early 90s.She remembers with huge fondness her childhood home: the big villa with bow windows and a balcony added by Joan's father. \"It was very warm and welcoming; there were lots of nooks and crannies. There was room to go away and have privacy, which is something I always craved. The house, she says, was always untidy. Always full of people. \"Always ringing with 'Has anybody seen my...?' and 'Who's had that?' And if you opened any cupboard, half of its contents would fall out.\"My parents liked to go dancing, and they encouraged all of us to bring our friends home. My brother had a skiffle group, and there would often be dancing in the house. And my parents would come and dance with us.\" I can imagine them, too - the teenage Quick, dancing; her brother and his friends bashing out the music; and Leonard and Joan joining in. Perhaps it is 1965. Diana Quick doesn't know it yet, but this is the end of her charmed life.\u2022 A Tug on the Thread: From the British Raj to the British Stage by Diana Quick is published by Virago at \u00a317.99 and is available at the Guardian bookshop.", "tags": ["Family", "British identity and society", "Life and style", "UK news"], "title": "Diana Quick discovers a passage from India"},{"date": "2009-04-17T23:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The theme of the London book fair this year is Indian writing. Vikram Seth, Amartya Sen, William Dalrymple and other writers in frequent circulation in this country are going to be joined by writers - K Satchidanandan, Javed Akhtar - distinguished or popular on their own terrain but less known here, for five days of discussions and celebrations. Something like this happened in 2006 to the Frankfurt book fair, when planeloads of Indian novelists and poets descended on the Intercontinental Hotel, waved to each other over breakfast, and then read from their work to courteous audiences in the afternoons and evenings.The theme then, too, was India; and the \"idea of India\" acted as a catalyst to a process that might have already begun, but received, at that moment, a recognisable impetus - the confluence, in one place, of literary and intellectual dialogue with what is basically business activity, each bringing magic and movement to the other. The India-themed Paris book fair followed swiftly.Both these events proved a few things. Firstly, you were reminded of the variety of genres that Indian writers - especially those who write in languages other than English - had practised for much of the 20th century. In the hotel lobbies, the caf\u00e9s and restaurants in adjoining streets, not to speak of the venues, you kept running into poets, critics, short-story writers, historians, playwrights from the many Indian literatures; and, of course, novelists. The English language had, it would seem, only thrown up novelists in India in the last 30 years; the truth is that there were and are excellent English-language poets, but few, or none, had been invited.As to the writers from the more troubled regions outside the metropolitan suburbs in which English alone was spoken, you could see, if you scratched the surface of their slightly bureaucratic veneer, that they possessed an eclecticism of taste and literary predilections, a formal curiosity, as well as a true multilingualism, that made them quite akin - paradoxically for brown men wandering about the streets of Frankfurt and Paris - to the breed of writers once called \"European\". However, no one, I think, asked them about their relationship to Europe, though each of them would have had an answer to the question; this was a reminder of the odd discrepancy between language - and I don't just mean English and French and Hindi - and vantage-point and intention that sometimes characterised interactions between audiences and writers.The other thing that hit you was the amount of money the Indian government had to spare for culture; it was one of the main sponsors of these events, and had made these migratory, crowded, but characteristically desultory congregations possible. Why now? And just how much thought had gone into the meetings and readings? Perhaps a great deal more could have been done over the decades following independence to give us a greater and more acute sense of our literary history as moderns, especially as more funding seemed to have been available than had been assumed. We in India have no equivalent of the Modern Library, for instance, nor anything like the Penguin Modern European Poets series, let alone properly influential critical and scholarly work on 20th-century literature. Are the book fairs, with their new kind of commingling, sending out a hint - perhaps an unintended one - about the timeliness of such initiatives to their organisers?Another revealing aspect of Frankfurt and Paris was the evidently unconstricted and even unpredictable way foreign rights were sold by Indian publishers (without, necessarily, British mediation) to European countries: this explained the random mix of celebrities and little-known practitioners, of the \"latest thing\" in Indian writing in English as well as the older and occasionally infirm writers (members of a deceased avant-garde) in the Indian languages. Some of these people have hardly been translated into English, but are often available in French or German, and there are students writing doctorates on their work. The putative common pool of the Indo-European languages (established at first in the late 18th century by a Welshman, William Jones, and put into circulation in Europe by the Germans Schlegel, Schiller, Goethe and later Max Mueller) probably - who knows? - still stirs faintly in the memory of European academia as it hardly does in the Anglo-Saxon world. Or, possibly, the fact that these countries have less of a direct relationship with India than Britain allows for the frequently hit-or-miss but sometimes surprising nature of the Indian list on the European publishers' catalogues. What will London bring that Frankfurt and Paris haven't? Certainly, it seems to have taken the cue from the two European cities in at least one regard: it hasn't invited only those writers who are published in this country - that is, Anglophone writers of prose. So, for instance, we will have, besides Vikram Seth, Ramachandra Guha and Patrick French, the Urdu-language theorist Gopi Chand Narang, the Bengali poet and novelist Sunil Ganguly, and the English-language poet and novelist Mamang Dai from the idyllic, remote Arunachal Pradesh. In other words, the book fair should bring some intimation to audiences in London of an explosion in writing that is not 30 but perhaps 200 years old, the consequence of a venerable, many-tongued, and still astonishing lineage in modernism.There will also be two writers who have aired their disagreements with each other in these pages - the Englishman William Radice, poet, translator of Tagore, and, until recently, poet laureate-aspirant, and the younger Jeet Thayil, poet, critic, editor of an anthology of Indian poetry in English, and defender (odd but instructive that it should need defending even now, in a way that Indian fiction no longer does) of the continued viability of Indian English poetry. Not all of these choices are risky ones; many of these writers (myself included) now spend a fair amount of time in the ghostly, mnemonic world of international book fairs, in their guise as crowded transit lounges for the nation; here we wait, eat, talk to each other, ignore acquaintances, as the difference between airport, venue and hotel gradually diminishes. But does this journey lead somewhere? Will it change the way Indian writing is configured within British publishing?How does travel shape and qualify writing and nationality (a common enough conundrum), especially when they take on this form - the transcontinental literary event; the book reading in a foreign location? And how do these writers cohere and relate to each other in our minds: what is it, besides the book fair and perhaps the place of birth on their passports or some long-standing enthusiasm, that makes K Satchidanandan and Tarun J Tejpal and Dalrymple all, in some sense, \"Indian\" writers? One thing we do know is that travel is not only about bringing your particular skills, wares, identity and lineage to a place, but being changed by, and learning from, the act of travelling and facing up to foreignness. In roughly the past 20 years India has changed from being a Nehruvian nation-state - an experiment and ideal in democracy - to a portable mode of existence, as well as a form of self-justification for a curious mixture of free-market opportunism and a slyly conservative provincialism. This means that Indians, as they travel, migrate and resettle, have increasingly begun to deflect the problem - and the rewards - of encountering foreignness, and strangeness, and the notion of \"India\" has helped them in (has, in fact, been crucial to) this deflection. The so-called Indian diaspora ceased, really, to want either to integrate with, or radically revise, the landscape they moved to in the 1980s and 90s (usually, the United States, succeeding the earlier wave of immigration to Britain); instead, they wished to conform silently and, simultaneously, to continue as themselves. This has led to a unique combination of acceptance and denial. In 2002, spending some months in America, I found an array of young first-generation Indian settlers in the more well-to-do suburbs of New Jersey and Atlanta, almost entirely, and pretty aggressively, committed to American foreign policy and the Bush dispensation, and yet also clinging to Indian film songs and DVDs and food and marriages, a universe on which contemporary American culture, and Americans themselves, impinged only rarely. This was one of the many recognisable versions of \"India\" that have sprung up in the last two decades, where \"foreignness\" does not actually occur in any compelling way. Jhumpa Lahiri has only recently begun to hint - with a delicate abstention from the obvious - at the silence that surrounds this microcosm, in the stories in her bestselling collection Unaccustomed EarthSo much of what the Indian middle class sees as its ideal present and its possible future, including its thoughts on the role of literature, emanates from, or emerges in relation to, these American suburbs. In a survey undertaken last year, it turned out that India lagged behind America alone in its love for that country and for George Bush. (\"India\" here is a metonym for the middle class, and vice versa.) In the Clinton era, and even more pronouncedly in the Bush era, the US came to be seen as a facilitator of India's own teeming, importunate ambitions, for its true place in the world, and, therefore, as a familial figure, in keeping with the Indian middle class's interpretation of family, as an institution that is primarily a guarantor of self-interest. When India looks at America, it sees a comforting or discomfiting (according to the phase of history it then inhabits) extension of its own welfare - much in the way that a child invents its mother. This version of the familial also seems to direct the way a large number of Anglophone Indians view what they think of as literature. Their incongruously intimate, emotion-prone and proprietorial relationship with the Booker prize is a case in point. Here, feelings of self-approbation and self-doubt characterise the response to the outcome; and rarely was this inability to escape anxieties to do with prestige clearer than in 2008, when there were two Indians on the shortlist. An uneasy family drama ensued in India, with scorn being poured on one Indian, Aravind Adiga, and felicitations being made prematurely to the other, Amitav Ghosh. When Adiga won, there was patrician outrage; national - or family - pride had been violated. Word had soon got out in the British press that the other serious contender for the prize besides Adiga, as far as the judges were concerned, was Sebastian Barry. This Irish writer, however, hardly penetrated the Indian consciousness, and nor had the others on the list besides the two mentioned; the heterogeneity of Anglophone writing is not something that Indians are any longer prepared to do business with. Similarly, there's a sense, in the context of the new, middle-class Indian, of an end to the notion of travel as disjunction and discovery.Travel, anyway, shapes the literary festival, the book fair, in paradoxically enclosing ways, and with a degree of unreality. You cover great distances, sometimes, to arrive at the literary festival, but the festival itself is a province, an enclosure. This special provincialism and curious lack of movement becomes more intense when the theme is nationality, or a national literature, as has been the case with the \"international\" festivals concerning India this century. It started in 2002 at Neemrana, a heritage fort outside Delhi converted into a luxury hotel, where the Indian Council for Cultural Relations hosted the first India-themed literary conference, a gathering of well-known writers with the polarising figure of VS Naipaul at the centre. For three days, the writers read from and discussed their work to and with each other; there was access neither to the public nor to the world outside the ancient fortress walls. It was a bit like a Walter de la Mare ghost story, with several sinister and incredible possibilities hanging in the air simultaneously; and the feeling of circularity and repetition was confirmed later, when the conference moved to Delhi and was opened to the public, and India turned out to be almost the only point of reference in the conversations and the questions and answers. Personally, I think I could find out more about myself by asking Ian Jack (to take a random example; he wasn't present at Neemrana) what he thinks about Hugh MacDiarmid or Muriel Spark, or the Scottish education system in the 60s, or his experiences as a newspaper editor in Thatcher's England, than by interrogating him on India; this is because we're both - as a Bengali and a Scotsman - historical beings invested and implicated in the 20th and unfolding 21st centuries, and will address each other most profoundly, despite our differences, only by addressing our own deepest memories about ourselves. I think the Scotsman understands this, which is why he doesn't constantly ask me what I think about Scotland; but I wonder if the Indian does. To constantly look for yourself even when you encounter the foreign is never to travel; while we know that it's in observing and overhearing others as we journey that we often discover unexpected dimensions of ourselves.The question, then, is whether, and in what ways, the literary festival or book fair (in Frankfurt or Paris or Delhi or London) can open up to the fact of foreignness and travel. In Paris, I remember, most of us stayed in our hotel rooms, or idly explored the huge, over-populated venue; on the bus between hotel and venue, I said to the Kannada novelist UR Anantha Murthy (who will be present in London), \"Is that the real Eiffel tower?\" - for we'd seen it from many angles outside the bus window in the last day and a half, illuminated during the night, deceptively proximate by daylight, a consoling fiction. Anantha Murthy shook his head gravely at its dogged ubiquity, at the very fact that the tower outside the window denoted at once that we were irrefutably in Paris and yet never in it, and said: \"To escape the Eiffel tower you have to go inside it,\" adding, with a smile: \"I think it was Barthes who said that.\" Much the same could be said of identity and nationality; that, for their monumental, visible qualities to evaporate, you have to somehow disappear into them. Anantha Murthy's (for me, utterly surprising) remark made me aware, momentarily, of the contingencies of travel and literature in a way that few of the seminars did: that I knew almost as little, or as much, about his sensibility as I did about Paris.This admission brings me back to the question: how are Indian writers located within a single space - a hotel lobby; a seminar room; a tradition - actually related to each other? I asked myself this for the first time as I began to put together, at the beginning of the 2000s, The Picador Book of Modern Indian Literature: what, for example, connected the 19th-century Bengali poet Michael Madhusudan Dutt to Salman Rushdie, Rushdie to UR Anantha Murthy, and Anantha Murthy to Vikram Seth? The generic word \"Indian\" by itself provided no key. But the idea of travel did - not just travel within these writers' lives, but form and canon and genre themselves being kinds of travel, of experiencing the foreign. Anantha Murthy had discovered his subject-matter - an existential tale about a Brahmin set in rural Karnataka - while watching Bergman's The Seventh Seal, without subtitles, in Birmingham with his supervisor Malcolm Bradbury; Rushdie had read The Tin Drum in an almost auditory mode (he could hear the resounding drumbeat) and had also been studying Bu\u00f1uel and Satyajit Ray; Dutt, in the early 1860s, had begun to refine the sonnet in the Bengali language in the melancholy of Versailles; while Seth, more than a 100 years later, had been struck by the ebullience of Pushkin's use of the tetrameter and the sonnet in Eugene Onegin. All this - that is, the movements and paths along which Indian literature had been shaped in the past 200 years - had occurred before fax machines and the internet had come into existence; before the knowledge that accrues with travel had become information, and when travel was still a code for survival and daydreaming, and almost an unspoken faith.Tagore came to England as an unhappy teenager in 1878, and heard western music properly almost for the first time; more than 40 years later, in what might be read as a gesture of reciprocity, he arranged for the Bauhaus artists' works to be exhibited in Calcutta. In the early 1960s, Allen Ginsberg and Peter Orlovsky came to India, hung out with the avant-garde Calcutta poets (of whom one, Sunil Ganguly, will be attending the London book fair in a more canonical incarnation), went to Bombay and met, among others, the poets Arun Kolatkar, Adil Jussawalla and Nissim Ezekiel, and returned to America with various manifestos and poems ready for translation. Around this time, and very soon after Robert Lowell published his Imitations, the bilingual Arun Kolatkar (who died five years ago) had begun to compose his extraordinary contemporary versions in English of the Marathi medieval devotional saint-poet Tukaram. When I think of these moments, I'm reminded afresh of the emergence of literature as a network and a form of complex, far-flung exchange, long before the emergence of \"information\" and present-day modes of travel. It's this mystery that informs the list of \"favourite\" writers Kolatkar provides for an Indian interviewer in a mood of exasperation and mischievousness, a list in which the dead and the living, like and unlike, mingle disconcertingly: \"Whitman, Mardhekar, Manmohan, Eliot, Pound, Auden, Hart Crane, Dylan Thomas, Kafka, Baudelaire, Heine, Catullus, Villon, Dnyaneshwar, Namdev, Janabai, Eknath, Tukaram, Wang Wei. Tu Fu, Han Shan ... Mandelshtam, Dostoevsky, Gogol, Isaac Bashevis Singer, Babel, Apollinaire, Breton, Brecht, Neruda, Ginsberg ... Henry Miller, Nabokov, Namdeo Dhasal, Patthe Bapurav, Rabelais ... Rex Stout, Agatha Christie ... Bhalchandra Nemade ... Lewis Carroll, John Lennon, Bob Dylan, Sylvia Plath, Ted Hughes, Godse Bhatji ... Kabir, Robert Johnson, Muddy Waters, Leadbelly, Howling Wolf, John Lee Hooker ... Kurosawa, Eisenstein, Truffaut, Woody Guthrie, Laurel and Hardy.\" This is probably as good an intellectual history of Indian literature as any other. Uncontained by either genre or nationality, it happens to contain two figures - the \"untouchable\" Dalit poet Namdeo Dhasal and the Marathi novelist-critic Bhalchandra Nemade - who'll also be making their way this week to London. It remains to be seen if any of the others mentioned will put in an appearance.I recommend Namdeo Dhasal: Poet of the Underworld (1972-2006). It is raw, disturbing stuff. I don't agree with his politics now (he supports the Hindutva brigade), but his work should be read because it tells of what a brutal society we live in.Arundhati Roy, novelistPublished in England by the Hogarth Press in 1940 - and championed by Woolf and Forster - Ahmed Ali's Twilight in Delhi was one of the first Indian novels to create a stir among literary circles in England. And not just among literary circles - the printers refused, at first, to publish it because of its critical comments about colonial rule. Set in Old Delhi in 1911 at the time of George V's coronation ceremony, it describes the life of Mir Nihal and his family. They live in a world conscious that its glory days (during the Mughal empire) have long since passed. Ali's style may seem ornate to some readers, but his description of the dying world of Delhi is gloriously atmospheric, and the rhythms of the language pull you in. Kamila Shamsie, novelistQurratulain Hyder, novelist, short story writer and prose stylist of rare accomplishment, is one of Urdu's greatest writers. Literary critic Aamer Hussein has compared her to her contemporaries, Milan Kundera and Gabriel Garcia Marquez, as \"one of the world's major writers: eclectic, iconoclastic and versatile\". In her 30s, she wrote her magnum opus, Aag ka Darya - published in English for the first time in 1998 as River of Fire - a great river of a novel, majestic in its sweep, grand in its vision. She maintained that writing can encompass \"fact, reportage, imagination, documentary presentation, the epistolary form\", even cinematic treatment. All her novels, novellas and short stories are a testament to this belief, as well as to her cosmopolitanism and uncompromising secularism. Ritu Menon, founder of Women Unlimited, India's oldest feminist pressDaniyal Mueenuddin's outstanding collection of short stories, In Other Rooms, Other Wonders, is rooted in a rural landscape, like the stories of RK Narayan, but is far blacker than Narayan's work, with the trajectory of each story ending in a shell-burst of loss and tragedy. Mueenuddin looks for inspiration not to the writing of south Asia but to Turgenev and Chekov, and the bleakness of vision of Dostoyevsky or Gogol. His Pakistan is visually beautiful - there are wonderful sketches of the rhythms of the landscape with its clouds and banyan trees and mango orchards, its sugar-cane fields and the sound of \"water running through the reeds in the canal\" - but it is also brutal and savage. Other Rooms is quite unlike anything recently published in India, and throws the gauntlet down to a new generation of Indian writers. Pakistan as a force in literature seems to be gaining greater momentum every day.William Dalrymple, writerFew writers have travelled so far - literally and metaphorically - as a young woman born in 1968 in a village in the Tiruchy district of Tamil Nadu in southern India. Rokkaiah dropped out of school in the 9th grade, and was married off early and against her will to a conservative Muslim family (like her own). She started writing poetry at the age of 13, and, despite strong familial pressure to stop, continued - writing under cover of night, and publishing under a pseudonym, Salma, that would soon be known throughout the state and beyond. Salma has published two collections of poetry, Oru Malaiyum, Innoru Malaiyum (\"One Evening, Another Evening\") and Pachai Devadhai (\"The Green Goddess\") - powerful, lyrical and explicit explorations of women's lives trapped in their homes. Along with three other poets, Salma in 2003 faced charges of obscenity (as well as death-threats). A female Muslim writer in India is a rarity; one who writes with such frankness about sex and sexuality is even rarer. On top of this, being an active and respected local politician and social activist makes Salma unique.Anita Roy, Zubaan BooksNirad C Chaudhuri is seen as an anachronism now, though in the 1960s VS Naipaul wrote that his Autobiography of an Unknown Indian was \"the one great book to come out of the Indo-English encounter\". Chaudhuri loved to be a controversialist, \"to make mischief\", as he put it, and he spent the last half of his very long life (1897-1999) upsetting as many people and orthodoxies as he could find the time to meet or examine. Chaudhuri was a genuine polymath. He wrote studies of Hinduism and biographies of Robert Clive and Max Mueller, and most of his work was marked by pugnacious and often wrong-headed judgments. But Autobiography and its sequel Thy Hand, Great Anarch! give a wonderful picture of Indian life in the first half of the last century, as well as of the author's remarkable progress from a Bengali village to a flat in north Oxford. No other Indian author has written so interestingly or frankly about himself, at least in the English language. Take the scene on the bridal bed after Chaudhuri and his new wife have just gone through their wedding rituals and are tentatively trying to get to know each other. As a great Europhile, Chaudhuri wants to know if she's heard any western classical music. She indicates that she hasn't. But has she heard of Beethoven? Yes. Can she perhaps spell his name? \"She said slowly: 'B, E, E, T, H, O, V, E, N.' I felt very encouraged. After that we talked about other things aimlessly and dozed off.\"Ian Jack, writer and editorSadaat Hasan Manto, who worked primarily as a scriptwriter in Bombay before partition, and moved to Pakistan, is the Indian Isaac Babel, a writer of dark, savage beauty, who portrayed the underbelly of Indian life like no other. I believe that the fiction coming out of Pakistan at the moment - by writers such as Mohammed Hanif, Moni Mohsin and Daniyal Mueenuddin - is the most interesting in the subcontinent. These writers are telling stories that we haven't heard before.Chiki Sarkar, editor-in-chief, Random House IndiaBetween history and memory lies the other side of Euclid's line in which Bhasha writers spin their magical worlds. Whether it is Vijaydan Detha or Naiyer Masud, Krishna Sobti or Paul Zacharia, they craft bold, alternative worlds. Yes, their writings stand for myriad imaginations across 3,300,000sq km of a linguistically exciting map. And yes, many talk of poverty and deprivation - but this is part of the global human predicament. But Bhasha writers are much more than just this. Many have a unique sense of humour and voice - vibrant, down-to-earth, alive. Dig deep with them to find where truth lies in the bewildering heterogeneity that is India. Geeta Dharmarajan, founder of the social organisation KathaGovardhan's Travels, by Anand (translated from Malayalam by Gita Krishnakutty) is a funny, skilful tale about the fate of the \"common man\". Bitingly satirical, Anand's novel (his real name is P Sachidanandan) is familiar to virtually every reader in the author's home state of Kerala, but unfortunately little known outside. The Bengali writer Mahashveta Devi calls it \"the most memorable literary event of my experience\".Urvashi Butalia, director and co-founder of Kali for WomenThe novels behind Satyajit Ray's films are great literature - Bibhutibhushan Bandopadhyay's Apu books, the works of Rabindranath Tagore, and others - many available in translation. Ray was an advertising man, tall and senatorial, a fan of Billy Wilder, and he wrote delightful children's books. His best-known are the Feluda series. The books tap into a childhood longing for mystery and detective work, but they appeal to all ages. Collections of his stories for adults remain available. His best-known book, however, is on films: Our Films Their FilmsShruti Debi, editor, Picador IndiaPublished bilingually in English and Hindi, Diddi - My mother's Voice was written by Ira Pande as a tribute to her mother, the Hindi writer Shivani. The author of more than 40 books, many of which were serialised in the literary magazine Dharmayug, Shivani had a fanatical following among her millions of readers. After her death in 2003, her daughter Ira translated a selection of her writings into English, with a commentary on her charismatic mother, and their proud and eccentric Brahmin family. She wrote the same commentary in Hindi, interspersing the original stories with personal insights. Set in the Kumaon hills in the lower Himalayas, her narrative brings fiction and memoir together into a compelling portrait of a changing society. Namita Gokhale, writer and co-director of the Jaipur literature festivalPoet, short story writer, essayist, novelist, script writer and director, Premendra Mitra (1904-1988) was a prominent figure in the cultural life of Bengal. His outstanding contribution to Bengali literature was the character Ghanshyam Das or Ghana-da. Living in an all-male hostel and rarely stepping out of it, Ghana-da spins tall tales that take us to exotic locations: the Malaysian rainforests, the South Sea Islands, the Arctic and the Antarctic. There is a constant supply of food - several rounds of mutton chops and prawn cutlets - and cigarettes as this ageless raconteur mesmerises his listeners with stories of his bravado. This lovable, legendary character, reminiscent of Baron M\u00fcnchausen, and as delightful as Herg\u00e9's Tintin, is an all-time favourite.Diya Kar Hazra, editor, Penguin India\u2022 For further information on the British Council's India '09 at the London book fair, go to: londonbookfair.co.uk or britishcouncil.org/india", "tags": ["Books", "Culture", "India", "World news", "London book fair"], "title": "Amit Chaudhuri on the new generation of Indian writers"},{"date": "2009-05-20T23:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Compared to what is happening in Sri Lanka and Pakistan, or indeed in a wider region not noted for democratic engagement, the elections in India are both to be saluted and celebrated. Saluted because the election shows a popular commitment to democracy, which goes back long before the arrival of the British, to the village parliament or panchayat. Celebrated because it produced the right result. The pundits, who to a man, predicted a weak and fractious coalition dependent on regional leaders, were stuffed. So was the rightwing Hindu nationalist BJP, which lost a large amount of territory. Congress was returned not just with a strong mandate but a national one.This is important for the renewal of a 124-year-old party deemed to be in irreversible decline. It is even more important for the prime minister, Manmohan Singh, who invested substantial amounts of political as well as financial capital in a project during his first term, which defied conventional wisdom. The National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA) provides 100 days of unskilled labour at the minimum wage to at least one member of a rural household. As an unashamed handout, the scheme has many critics. But as a substitute for absent social welfare, NREGA was a vote-winner. If Mr Singh is right to say that India is fissiparous, with vast rural swaths untouched by 9% growth rates in the last three years, then the solution has to be giving the poorest states such as Bihar a slice, however thin, of the national cake. The massive social welfare schemes Mr Singh launched in his first term were instrumental in his return to power. It runs counter to the Anglo-Saxon model with which too much of the world fell in love, but India's economy can not be run exclusively for and by its English-speaking urban elites.If rural development emerged as the leitmotiv of the campaign, it is all the more surprising that India's new government should have yesterday named security and promoting Hindu-Muslim tolerance as its two priorities. It was, after all, the BJP which played the terror card with campaign ads showing its 81-year-old leader, LK Advani, pumping iron at the gym. And Mr Singh's resistance to calls for an attack on Pakistan after the Mumbai bombings did not emerge as an election issue. The BJP turned off voters with its strident anti-Muslim rhetoric, and with the record of Narendra Modi, Gujarat's chief minister, who stood by during the riots in his state, in which 1,000 Muslims were killed. It is important to promote Hindu-Muslim tolerance, although this is not the central issue. But the part that a strong Indian government can play in regional security should not be underestimated. India's elites dislike being linked to a dysfunctional Pakistan, preferring to be ranked with China as a booming regional power. Delhi was horrified to think it would be included in Richard Holbrooke's Af-Pak regional remit, which in the end it was not. But none of that precludes the role that India could play in starting to defuse tensions with Pakistan over Kashmir. This could, in turn, work against the logic of Pakistan's military and security elites who persist in viewing India as the existential threat. Talks started under the now discredited Gen Pervez Musharraf. It would be extraordinarily difficult to continue under the fire of suicide squads trained on, and despatched from, Pakistani soil. It may not be easy to persuade India to make concessions on Kashmir to a weak government in Islamabad. But it is impossible to think of a regional Af-Pak solution without India. And it is all too easy to imagine a US withdrawal under fire if India is ignored. India is more than a country. It is also an idea, expressed by Gandhi, Nehru and Ambedkar (the untouchable who wrote so much of India's constitution). As India grows in regional importance, the challenge will be to express that idea clearly and attractively to others.", "tags": ["Indian elections 2009", "India"], "title": "India: The world's biggest vote"},{"date": "2009-05-20T21:27:31Z", "country": "india", "content": "Compared to what is happening in Sri Lanka and Pakistan, or indeed in a wider region not noted for democratic engagement, the elections in India are both to be saluted and celebrated. Saluted because the election shows a popular commitment to democracy, which goes back long before the arrival of the British, to the village parliament or panchayat. Celebrated because it produced the right result. The pundits, who to a man, predicted a weak and fractious coalition dependent on regional leaders, were stuffed. So was the rightwing Hindu nationalist BJP, which lost a large amount of territory. Congress was returned not just with a strong mandate but a national one.This is important for the renewal of a 124-year-old party deemed to be in irreversible decline. It is even more important for the prime minister, Manmohan Singh, who invested substantial amounts of political as well as financial capital in a project during his first term, which defied conventional wisdom. The National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA) provides 100 days of unskilled labour at the minimum wage to at least one member of a rural household. As an unashamed handout, the scheme has many critics. But as a substitute for absent social welfare, NREGA was a vote-winner. If Mr Singh is right to say that India is fissiparous, with vast rural swaths untouched by 9% growth rates in the last three years, then the solution has to be giving the poorest states such as Bihar a slice, however thin, of the national cake. The massive social welfare schemes Mr Singh launched in his first term were instrumental in his return to power. It runs counter to the Anglo-Saxon model with which too much of the world fell in love, but India's economy can not be run exclusively for and by its English-speaking urban elites.If rural development emerged as the leitmotiv of the campaign, it is all the more surprising that India's new government should have yesterday named security and promoting Hindu-Muslim tolerance as its two priorities. It was, after all, the BJP which played the terror card with campaign ads showing its 81-year-old leader, LK Advani, pumping iron at the gym. And Mr Singh's resistance to calls for an attack on Pakistan after the Mumbai bombings did not emerge as an election issue. The BJP turned off voters with its strident anti-Muslim rhetoric, and with the record of Narendra Modi, Gujarat's chief minister, who stood by during the riots in his state, in which 1,000 Muslims were killed. It is important to promote Hindu-Muslim tolerance, although this is not the central issue.But the part that a strong Indian \u00adgovernment can play in regional security should not be underestimated. India's elites dislike being linked to a dysfunctional Pakistan, preferring to be ranked with China as a booming regional power. Delhi was horrified to think it would be included in Richard Holbrooke's Af-Pak regional remit, which in the end it was not. But none of that precludes the role that India could play in starting to defuse tensions with Pakistan over Kashmir. This could, in turn, work against the logic of Pakistan's military and security elites who persist in viewing India as the existential threat.Talks started under the now discredited Gen\u00a0Pervez Musharraf. It would be extraordinarily difficult to continue under the fire of suicide squads trained on, and despatched from, Pakistani soil. It may not be easy to persuade India to make concessions on Kashmir to a weak government in Islamabad. But it is impossible to think of a regional Af-Pak solution without India. And it is all too easy to imagine a US withdrawal under fire if India is ignored.India is more than a country. It is also an idea, expressed by Gandhi, Nehru and Ambedkar (the untouchable who wrote so much of India's constitution). As India grows in regional importance, the challenge will be to express that idea clearly and attractively to others.", "tags": ["Indian elections 2009", "India", "World news"], "title": "India, the world's biggest vote | Editorial"},{"date": "2009-06-24T08:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Visitors to Bangalore arrive at a modern airport and take the new highway down into the city. They see the buildings they expect in India's IT capital. Those of us who live here enjoy finding corners where we can remember Bangalore's past. There are statues of ancient chieftains, and stones by the side of the road commemorate their heroism in a forgotten form of the current language. There are colonial buildings and beautiful private gardens from the time this was a garden city, \"the pensioners' paradise\".Our neighbourhood is special because it has a small piece of Bangalore's future, and most of us are not sure what to do about it. Our estate is fairly new \u2013 we are still shown as a coconut grove on the city map \u2013 but built in traditional style. Houses are two or three storeys with stairs outside. Typically the landlord lives on the ground floor and tenants on the floors above.We buy our vegetables from a barrow, groceries from the little kiosk-like shops on every corner. The rich and well-organised order their rice and flour in large sacks, and keep them in locked storerooms.The new supermarket, very much part of modern Bangalore, does not fit our neighbourhood. It is serving puzzled people. In the morning I go for wholemeal bread and sterilised milk, which the corner shops don't stock. Morning is when the maids come to buy breakfast supplies, and they wander the aisles looking for a old-style counter where they can just ask for what they need.When I go in the evening, housewives in saris have come to make bigger purchases. They would like to bargain. They expect the manager to chat to solid customers such as themselves. But this supermarket is part of a chain, and managers have been trained to behave in a new and different way. The ladies in saris are affronted.I felt sad at their discomfort but yesterday, I saw a different sight when I went for my milk. Four young Muslim women, completely covered except for intelligent eyes, had invaded. They divided the aisles between them, doing a quick inventory, and then darting to the checkout: \"Where was this? Why didn't the market stock that? When would the next shipment arrive?\" Then they darted off to the shelves again, making the place their own. Very soon this store will be a part of our neighbourhood.", "tags": ["India holidays", "India"], "title": "India: supermarkets arrive in the garden city"},{"date": "2009-05-08T23:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Diana Quick is telling me about the morning of her father's death. The actor, famous as Julia Flyte in the 1981 TV series Brideshead Revisited, was an 18-year-old student at Oxford Univeristy. Leonard Quick, a prosperous dentist, was 50. He was waking up in the family house in Kent when he had a heart attack. \"He was in his prime,\" his daughter, now 62, tells me. She is speaking softly, in a clipped voice. \"It was a coronary. He was taken to hospital and made comfortable; the belief was that they'd got it in time. But he had a second attack, and died.\"This moment, Quick says, marked a huge turning-point in her life. Before her father's death, she had led a charmed life. She had got into Oxford at 17 to study English literature and was not only beautiful and clever, but funny, too - she would soon be in The Oxford Line, a comedy revue, with John Sergeant, Simon Brett and Nigel Rees. She epitomised the 60s - one of those mini-skirted girls who were the first generation to go on the pill. She even knew Mick Jagger. On the morning of her father's death, Diana Quick was cycling, on a pink bicycle, to a lecture by Isaiah Berlin.When she got back to her college, Quick found a note in her pigeonhole. It said: \"Contact your tutor IMMEDIATELY.\" Her tutor, Kathleen Lea, told her to sit down. Everything that had happened before this moment had gone right for Diana Quick; later, her friends would tell her that she had been so confident that she was \"hard to take\". Her close friend Hermione Lee, also an Oxford student, would say: \"You were insufferable, you know.\"Kathleen Lea told her what had happened. Stunned, Quick made her way back home, to the heart of her grieving family. That day, she says, was a blur. She arrived at her parents' - now, suddenly, her mother's - big Edwardian villa on the outskirts of Dartford to be met by her mother, Joan, her older sister, Julie, and her brothers, Clive and Richard. They went together to see Leonard's body. Quick remembers that his ears were \"blackish-blue\" with pooled blood, and that this was the thing that made her sure, beyond any doubt, that he was really dead.\"You don't consider it, do you?\" she says. \"You feel immortal and you feel those about you are. Very few people I knew had died. I didn't really think about getting old and dying.\" There is a silence, while we both think the same thought. Leonard Quick was not old. \"He was 50,\" she says. \"From where I am now, that seems cruelly young.\"But his death was hugely significant in another way. Until that moment, his daughter had known virtually nothing about his early life. And now she was full of questions. For one thing, his funeral was to be at a Catholic church. She hadn't known he was a Catholic. She knew he had grown up in India, arrived in England at the age of 17 and never went home. She had met his father and stepmother, her grandparents, only twice, briefly, even though they had moved from the subcontinent to Surrey. She hadn't really questioned the fact that the two senior Quicks, Bertie and Nora, had never visited their son's house. Their names were hardly mentioned. Why?\"I had an intimation that there was something I didn't know,\" says Quick. \"It was never discussed. My father was a very warm, gregarious, sociable person who had many interests. He lived his life very much in the present, full of activities and the next project. He had many hobbies. He was not given to retrospection. There are lots of things that I would have wanted to know about his life, that I suddenly couldn't ask. And my mother blocked any questions about it - she either didn't know, or she wasn't telling.\" I am talking to Quick in the bar of a London hotel across from the Thames; she says she has spent the last 10 years looking for the answers to the questions her mother wouldn't answer. The result of those 10 years is A Tug on the Thread, one of the best family memoirs I've read in a long time. Quick - who, as a young actor, was photographed in French Vogue by Cecil Beaton and was once described as \"the most beautiful woman in the world\" - is still good-looking. She is dressed in practical trousers and a white shirt. The impression I get is of a fierce intellect just beginning to blossom - she spent years playing alluring, mysterious women, then years playing slightly older women who were cracking up, and then, as she puts it, a series of \"bonking grannies\".She has been married, once, to the actor Kenneth Cranham, and had a long relationship, now over, with the actor Bill Nighy, with whom she has a 24-year-old daughter, Mary. Her divorce from Cranham was amicable: \"We went Dutch on the divorce; it cost us \u00a316 each.\" There was no acrimony over the splitting up of household items - on the contrary, it was all \"No - you take it.\" Later, she introduced Cranham to Charlotte Cornwell, with whom he had a daughter. Although, she says, the two have split up, her daughter with Nighy and Cranham's daughter with Cornwell have an almost-sisterly relationship. Quick seems uncomfortable talking about Nighy. All she will say is that they were together and now they are not. And that she lives in the house she shared with Nighy \"with friends - it's a very good arrangement\". And that a married man propositioned her recently. \"He explained to me that his parents, who were public figures, had a 19th-century marriage. I said: 'What does that mean?' And he said: 'You get the heir and the spare, and you do what you like.' And I said: 'Well, I'm not old-fashioned enough for that.'\"Still, she's quite bohemian and laid-back. But her characters are usually uptight and controlling: women who are obsessed with propriety and who cut off their families. For instance, there was Eva in the Diane Samuels play Kindertransport, a Jewish woman whose mother had saved her from the Nazis by putting her on a train bound for England. Later, when the mother reappears in Eva's life, she rejects her - because, as Quick says, \"the cost of re-opening those old wounds is too high\". Then there was Murielle in Simone de Beauvoir's play The Woman Destroyed - a tragic, spiteful bitch who alienates her husbands and children. And Mrs Alving in Ibsen's Ghosts, who has spent her life trying to cover up the unsavoury facts about her husband, and destroys herself in the process. And, of course, Julia Flyte, who, like her father (played by Laurence Olivier in the television series), spends her life denying her Catholic faith, only to be pulled back towards it by, in Evelyn Waugh's phrase, \"a twitch upon the thread\". This, of course, is why Quick calls her book A Tug on the Thread. She came from a family steeped in denial, and it is this denial that she has been playing out ever since. For the book, she traced her family history back to her great-grandfather, Christopher Quick, who enlisted in the army as a teenager and sailed to India in the early 1870s. He had a drink problem and spent some time in jail. At the age of 32, he married an Anglo-Indian woman - someone whose parentage included both English and Indian forebears. The couple had three Anglo-Indian children, one of whom was Bertie, the grandfather who ended up in Surrey but was never mentioned in Diana's house.Bertie Quick did well. He became a dental surgeon in the foothills of the Himalayas, and also a general surgeon who patched up soldiers wounded in skirmishes on the north-west frontier. He had three children, one of whom was Leonard, and two houses. But, as an Anglo-Indian, he was never admitted to the pukka clubs - he would always be outside the pale. However, he had a plan: he would encourage Leonard to study dentistry in England, so that when his son came back home, Bertie could join forces with him in a newly anglicised practice. It would be enough, just, to bring the Quicks back from the pale, and possibly enough to satisfy Bertie's horribly snobbish second wife, Nora.But it was not to be. When Leonard went to London to study dentistry at Guy's hospital, he fell in love with Joan, Diana's mother. He didn't want to come back. And so began a titanic struggle. Bertie cut off Leonard's money; Leonard nearly went hungry; Leonard could see no way of completing his studies, and therefore becoming a dentist and able to marry Joan. But Joan's father lent Leonard the money he needed to get himself through his course. Leonard married Joan, and was cut off by his family in India. Later, as the Raj began to crumble, Bertie and Nora moved to England, where they had never lived. Leonard and Bertie never spoke. Bertie died in 1966; he outlived Leonard by six months. Neither Diana nor her siblings have any memories of Bertie at Leonard's funeral.One of the things that Quick has done so well is to show how the forces of snobbery and racism work their way through families, generation after generation. She has also written a book that describes the social conditions in the Raj better than almost any other I have read. She talked to many Anglo-Indians, some of whom \"passed for white\"; one man would only speak under a cloak of secrecy. He lived in the home counties and everybody thought he was English. \"He thought his friends would look at him differently,\" says Quick - and he might have been right. \"He kept saying: 'Let sleeping dogs lie.'\"She misses her father. If he was still alive, he'd be in his 90s now. \"I'd have had a companion,\" she says, \"because we always did get along so well. But if he hadn't died, I don't think I'd have got to know my mother in the way that I did.\" She spent a lot of time with her mother - years of mother-and-daughter holidays. Joan Quick died three years ago, of Parkinson's disease, in her early 90s.She remembers with huge fondness her childhood home: the big villa with bow windows and a balcony added by Joan's father. \"It was very warm and welcoming; there were lots of nooks and crannies. There was room to go away and have privacy, which is something I always craved. The house, she says, was always untidy. Always full of people. \"Always ringing with 'Has anybody seen my...?' and 'Who's had that?' And if you opened any cupboard, half of its contents would fall out.\"My parents liked to go dancing, and they encouraged all of us to bring our friends home. My brother had a skiffle group, and there would often be dancing in the house. And my parents would come and dance with us.\" I can imagine them, too - the teenage Quick, dancing; her brother and his friends bashing out the music; and Leonard and Joan joining in. Perhaps it is 1965. Diana Quick doesn't know it yet, but this is the end of her charmed life.\u2022 A Tug on the Thread: From the British Raj to the British Stage by Diana Quick is published by Virago at \u00a317.99 and is available at the Guardian bookshop.", "tags": ["Family", "British identity and society", "Life and style", "UK news"], "title": "Diana Quick discovers a passage from India"},{"date": "2009-04-17T23:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The theme of the London book fair this year is Indian writing. Vikram Seth, Amartya Sen, William Dalrymple and other writers in frequent circulation in this country are going to be joined by writers - K Satchidanandan, Javed Akhtar - distinguished or popular on their own terrain but less known here, for five days of discussions and celebrations. Something like this happened in 2006 to the Frankfurt book fair, when planeloads of Indian novelists and poets descended on the Intercontinental Hotel, waved to each other over breakfast, and then read from their work to courteous audiences in the afternoons and evenings.The theme then, too, was India; and the \"idea of India\" acted as a catalyst to a process that might have already begun, but received, at that moment, a recognisable impetus - the confluence, in one place, of literary and intellectual dialogue with what is basically business activity, each bringing magic and movement to the other. The India-themed Paris book fair followed swiftly.Both these events proved a few things. Firstly, you were reminded of the variety of genres that Indian writers - especially those who write in languages other than English - had practised for much of the 20th century. In the hotel lobbies, the caf\u00e9s and restaurants in adjoining streets, not to speak of the venues, you kept running into poets, critics, short-story writers, historians, playwrights from the many Indian literatures; and, of course, novelists. The English language had, it would seem, only thrown up novelists in India in the last 30 years; the truth is that there were and are excellent English-language poets, but few, or none, had been invited.As to the writers from the more troubled regions outside the metropolitan suburbs in which English alone was spoken, you could see, if you scratched the surface of their slightly bureaucratic veneer, that they possessed an eclecticism of taste and literary predilections, a formal curiosity, as well as a true multilingualism, that made them quite akin - paradoxically for brown men wandering about the streets of Frankfurt and Paris - to the breed of writers once called \"European\". However, no one, I think, asked them about their relationship to Europe, though each of them would have had an answer to the question; this was a reminder of the odd discrepancy between language - and I don't just mean English and French and Hindi - and vantage-point and intention that sometimes characterised interactions between audiences and writers.The other thing that hit you was the amount of money the Indian government had to spare for culture; it was one of the main sponsors of these events, and had made these migratory, crowded, but characteristically desultory congregations possible. Why now? And just how much thought had gone into the meetings and readings? Perhaps a great deal more could have been done over the decades following independence to give us a greater and more acute sense of our literary history as moderns, especially as more funding seemed to have been available than had been assumed. We in India have no equivalent of the Modern Library, for instance, nor anything like the Penguin Modern European Poets series, let alone properly influential critical and scholarly work on 20th-century literature. Are the book fairs, with their new kind of commingling, sending out a hint - perhaps an unintended one - about the timeliness of such initiatives to their organisers?Another revealing aspect of Frankfurt and Paris was the evidently unconstricted and even unpredictable way foreign rights were sold by Indian publishers (without, necessarily, British mediation) to European countries: this explained the random mix of celebrities and little-known practitioners, of the \"latest thing\" in Indian writing in English as well as the older and occasionally infirm writers (members of a deceased avant-garde) in the Indian languages. Some of these people have hardly been translated into English, but are often available in French or German, and there are students writing doctorates on their work. The putative common pool of the Indo-European languages (established at first in the late 18th century by a Welshman, William Jones, and put into circulation in Europe by the Germans Schlegel, Schiller, Goethe and later Max Mueller) probably - who knows? - still stirs faintly in the memory of European academia as it hardly does in the Anglo-Saxon world. Or, possibly, the fact that these countries have less of a direct relationship with India than Britain allows for the frequently hit-or-miss but sometimes surprising nature of the Indian list on the European publishers' catalogues. What will London bring that Frankfurt and Paris haven't? Certainly, it seems to have taken the cue from the two European cities in at least one regard: it hasn't invited only those writers who are published in this country - that is, Anglophone writers of prose. So, for instance, we will have, besides Vikram Seth, Ramachandra Guha and Patrick French, the Urdu-language theorist Gopi Chand Narang, the Bengali poet and novelist Sunil Ganguly, and the English-language poet and novelist Mamang Dai from the idyllic, remote Arunachal Pradesh. In other words, the book fair should bring some intimation to audiences in London of an explosion in writing that is not 30 but perhaps 200 years old, the consequence of a venerable, many-tongued, and still astonishing lineage in modernism.There will also be two writers who have aired their disagreements with each other in these pages - the Englishman William Radice, poet, translator of Tagore, and, until recently, poet laureate-aspirant, and the younger Jeet Thayil, poet, critic, editor of an anthology of Indian poetry in English, and defender (odd but instructive that it should need defending even now, in a way that Indian fiction no longer does) of the continued viability of Indian English poetry. Not all of these choices are risky ones; many of these writers (myself included) now spend a fair amount of time in the ghostly, mnemonic world of international book fairs, in their guise as crowded transit lounges for the nation; here we wait, eat, talk to each other, ignore acquaintances, as the difference between airport, venue and hotel gradually diminishes. But does this journey lead somewhere? Will it change the way Indian writing is configured within British publishing?How does travel shape and qualify writing and nationality (a common enough conundrum), especially when they take on this form - the transcontinental literary event; the book reading in a foreign location? And how do these writers cohere and relate to each other in our minds: what is it, besides the book fair and perhaps the place of birth on their passports or some long-standing enthusiasm, that makes K Satchidanandan and Tarun J Tejpal and Dalrymple all, in some sense, \"Indian\" writers? One thing we do know is that travel is not only about bringing your particular skills, wares, identity and lineage to a place, but being changed by, and learning from, the act of travelling and facing up to foreignness. In roughly the past 20 years India has changed from being a Nehruvian nation-state - an experiment and ideal in democracy - to a portable mode of existence, as well as a form of self-justification for a curious mixture of free-market opportunism and a slyly conservative provincialism. This means that Indians, as they travel, migrate and resettle, have increasingly begun to deflect the problem - and the rewards - of encountering foreignness, and strangeness, and the notion of \"India\" has helped them in (has, in fact, been crucial to) this deflection. The so-called Indian diaspora ceased, really, to want either to integrate with, or radically revise, the landscape they moved to in the 1980s and 90s (usually, the United States, succeeding the earlier wave of immigration to Britain); instead, they wished to conform silently and, simultaneously, to continue as themselves. This has led to a unique combination of acceptance and denial. In 2002, spending some months in America, I found an array of young first-generation Indian settlers in the more well-to-do suburbs of New Jersey and Atlanta, almost entirely, and pretty aggressively, committed to American foreign policy and the Bush dispensation, and yet also clinging to Indian film songs and DVDs and food and marriages, a universe on which contemporary American culture, and Americans themselves, impinged only rarely. This was one of the many recognisable versions of \"India\" that have sprung up in the last two decades, where \"foreignness\" does not actually occur in any compelling way. Jhumpa Lahiri has only recently begun to hint - with a delicate abstention from the obvious - at the silence that surrounds this microcosm, in the stories in her bestselling collection Unaccustomed EarthSo much of what the Indian middle class sees as its ideal present and its possible future, including its thoughts on the role of literature, emanates from, or emerges in relation to, these American suburbs. In a survey undertaken last year, it turned out that India lagged behind America alone in its love for that country and for George Bush. (\"India\" here is a metonym for the middle class, and vice versa.) In the Clinton era, and even more pronouncedly in the Bush era, the US came to be seen as a facilitator of India's own teeming, importunate ambitions, for its true place in the world, and, therefore, as a familial figure, in keeping with the Indian middle class's interpretation of family, as an institution that is primarily a guarantor of self-interest. When India looks at America, it sees a comforting or discomfiting (according to the phase of history it then inhabits) extension of its own welfare - much in the way that a child invents its mother. This version of the familial also seems to direct the way a large number of Anglophone Indians view what they think of as literature. Their incongruously intimate, emotion-prone and proprietorial relationship with the Booker prize is a case in point. Here, feelings of self-approbation and self-doubt characterise the response to the outcome; and rarely was this inability to escape anxieties to do with prestige clearer than in 2008, when there were two Indians on the shortlist. An uneasy family drama ensued in India, with scorn being poured on one Indian, Aravind Adiga, and felicitations being made prematurely to the other, Amitav Ghosh. When Adiga won, there was patrician outrage; national - or family - pride had been violated. Word had soon got out in the British press that the other serious contender for the prize besides Adiga, as far as the judges were concerned, was Sebastian Barry. This Irish writer, however, hardly penetrated the Indian consciousness, and nor had the others on the list besides the two mentioned; the heterogeneity of Anglophone writing is not something that Indians are any longer prepared to do business with. Similarly, there's a sense, in the context of the new, middle-class Indian, of an end to the notion of travel as disjunction and discovery.Travel, anyway, shapes the literary festival, the book fair, in paradoxically enclosing ways, and with a degree of unreality. You cover great distances, sometimes, to arrive at the literary festival, but the festival itself is a province, an enclosure. This special provincialism and curious lack of movement becomes more intense when the theme is nationality, or a national literature, as has been the case with the \"international\" festivals concerning India this century. It started in 2002 at Neemrana, a heritage fort outside Delhi converted into a luxury hotel, where the Indian Council for Cultural Relations hosted the first India-themed literary conference, a gathering of well-known writers with the polarising figure of VS Naipaul at the centre. For three days, the writers read from and discussed their work to and with each other; there was access neither to the public nor to the world outside the ancient fortress walls. It was a bit like a Walter de la Mare ghost story, with several sinister and incredible possibilities hanging in the air simultaneously; and the feeling of circularity and repetition was confirmed later, when the conference moved to Delhi and was opened to the public, and India turned out to be almost the only point of reference in the conversations and the questions and answers. Personally, I think I could find out more about myself by asking Ian Jack (to take a random example; he wasn't present at Neemrana) what he thinks about Hugh MacDiarmid or Muriel Spark, or the Scottish education system in the 60s, or his experiences as a newspaper editor in Thatcher's England, than by interrogating him on India; this is because we're both - as a Bengali and a Scotsman - historical beings invested and implicated in the 20th and unfolding 21st centuries, and will address each other most profoundly, despite our differences, only by addressing our own deepest memories about ourselves. I think the Scotsman understands this, which is why he doesn't constantly ask me what I think about Scotland; but I wonder if the Indian does. To constantly look for yourself even when you encounter the foreign is never to travel; while we know that it's in observing and overhearing others as we journey that we often discover unexpected dimensions of ourselves.The question, then, is whether, and in what ways, the literary festival or book fair (in Frankfurt or Paris or Delhi or London) can open up to the fact of foreignness and travel. In Paris, I remember, most of us stayed in our hotel rooms, or idly explored the huge, over-populated venue; on the bus between hotel and venue, I said to the Kannada novelist UR Anantha Murthy (who will be present in London), \"Is that the real Eiffel tower?\" - for we'd seen it from many angles outside the bus window in the last day and a half, illuminated during the night, deceptively proximate by daylight, a consoling fiction. Anantha Murthy shook his head gravely at its dogged ubiquity, at the very fact that the tower outside the window denoted at once that we were irrefutably in Paris and yet never in it, and said: \"To escape the Eiffel tower you have to go inside it,\" adding, with a smile: \"I think it was Barthes who said that.\" Much the same could be said of identity and nationality; that, for their monumental, visible qualities to evaporate, you have to somehow disappear into them. Anantha Murthy's (for me, utterly surprising) remark made me aware, momentarily, of the contingencies of travel and literature in a way that few of the seminars did: that I knew almost as little, or as much, about his sensibility as I did about Paris.This admission brings me back to the question: how are Indian writers located within a single space - a hotel lobby; a seminar room; a tradition - actually related to each other? I asked myself this for the first time as I began to put together, at the beginning of the 2000s, The Picador Book of Modern Indian Literature: what, for example, connected the 19th-century Bengali poet Michael Madhusudan Dutt to Salman Rushdie, Rushdie to UR Anantha Murthy, and Anantha Murthy to Vikram Seth? The generic word \"Indian\" by itself provided no key. But the idea of travel did - not just travel within these writers' lives, but form and canon and genre themselves being kinds of travel, of experiencing the foreign. Anantha Murthy had discovered his subject-matter - an existential tale about a Brahmin set in rural Karnataka - while watching Bergman's The Seventh Seal, without subtitles, in Birmingham with his supervisor Malcolm Bradbury; Rushdie had read The Tin Drum in an almost auditory mode (he could hear the resounding drumbeat) and had also been studying Bu\u00f1uel and Satyajit Ray; Dutt, in the early 1860s, had begun to refine the sonnet in the Bengali language in the melancholy of Versailles; while Seth, more than a 100 years later, had been struck by the ebullience of Pushkin's use of the tetrameter and the sonnet in Eugene Onegin. All this - that is, the movements and paths along which Indian literature had been shaped in the past 200 years - had occurred before fax machines and the internet had come into existence; before the knowledge that accrues with travel had become information, and when travel was still a code for survival and daydreaming, and almost an unspoken faith.Tagore came to England as an unhappy teenager in 1878, and heard western music properly almost for the first time; more than 40 years later, in what might be read as a gesture of reciprocity, he arranged for the Bauhaus artists' works to be exhibited in Calcutta. In the early 1960s, Allen Ginsberg and Peter Orlovsky came to India, hung out with the avant-garde Calcutta poets (of whom one, Sunil Ganguly, will be attending the London book fair in a more canonical incarnation), went to Bombay and met, among others, the poets Arun Kolatkar, Adil Jussawalla and Nissim Ezekiel, and returned to America with various manifestos and poems ready for translation. Around this time, and very soon after Robert Lowell published his Imitations, the bilingual Arun Kolatkar (who died five years ago) had begun to compose his extraordinary contemporary versions in English of the Marathi medieval devotional saint-poet Tukaram. When I think of these moments, I'm reminded afresh of the emergence of literature as a network and a form of complex, far-flung exchange, long before the emergence of \"information\" and present-day modes of travel. It's this mystery that informs the list of \"favourite\" writers Kolatkar provides for an Indian interviewer in a mood of exasperation and mischievousness, a list in which the dead and the living, like and unlike, mingle disconcertingly: \"Whitman, Mardhekar, Manmohan, Eliot, Pound, Auden, Hart Crane, Dylan Thomas, Kafka, Baudelaire, Heine, Catullus, Villon, Dnyaneshwar, Namdev, Janabai, Eknath, Tukaram, Wang Wei. Tu Fu, Han Shan ... Mandelshtam, Dostoevsky, Gogol, Isaac Bashevis Singer, Babel, Apollinaire, Breton, Brecht, Neruda, Ginsberg ... Henry Miller, Nabokov, Namdeo Dhasal, Patthe Bapurav, Rabelais ... Rex Stout, Agatha Christie ... Bhalchandra Nemade ... Lewis Carroll, John Lennon, Bob Dylan, Sylvia Plath, Ted Hughes, Godse Bhatji ... Kabir, Robert Johnson, Muddy Waters, Leadbelly, Howling Wolf, John Lee Hooker ... Kurosawa, Eisenstein, Truffaut, Woody Guthrie, Laurel and Hardy.\" This is probably as good an intellectual history of Indian literature as any other. Uncontained by either genre or nationality, it happens to contain two figures - the \"untouchable\" Dalit poet Namdeo Dhasal and the Marathi novelist-critic Bhalchandra Nemade - who'll also be making their way this week to London. It remains to be seen if any of the others mentioned will put in an appearance.I recommend Namdeo Dhasal: Poet of the Underworld (1972-2006). It is raw, disturbing stuff. I don't agree with his politics now (he supports the Hindutva brigade), but his work should be read because it tells of what a brutal society we live in.Arundhati Roy, novelistPublished in England by the Hogarth Press in 1940 - and championed by Woolf and Forster - Ahmed Ali's Twilight in Delhi was one of the first Indian novels to create a stir among literary circles in England. And not just among literary circles - the printers refused, at first, to publish it because of its critical comments about colonial rule. Set in Old Delhi in 1911 at the time of George V's coronation ceremony, it describes the life of Mir Nihal and his family. They live in a world conscious that its glory days (during the Mughal empire) have long since passed. Ali's style may seem ornate to some readers, but his description of the dying world of Delhi is gloriously atmospheric, and the rhythms of the language pull you in. Kamila Shamsie, novelistQurratulain Hyder, novelist, short story writer and prose stylist of rare accomplishment, is one of Urdu's greatest writers. Literary critic Aamer Hussein has compared her to her contemporaries, Milan Kundera and Gabriel Garcia Marquez, as \"one of the world's major writers: eclectic, iconoclastic and versatile\". In her 30s, she wrote her magnum opus, Aag ka Darya - published in English for the first time in 1998 as River of Fire - a great river of a novel, majestic in its sweep, grand in its vision. She maintained that writing can encompass \"fact, reportage, imagination, documentary presentation, the epistolary form\", even cinematic treatment. All her novels, novellas and short stories are a testament to this belief, as well as to her cosmopolitanism and uncompromising secularism. Ritu Menon, founder of Women Unlimited, India's oldest feminist pressDaniyal Mueenuddin's outstanding collection of short stories, In Other Rooms, Other Wonders, is rooted in a rural landscape, like the stories of RK Narayan, but is far blacker than Narayan's work, with the trajectory of each story ending in a shell-burst of loss and tragedy. Mueenuddin looks for inspiration not to the writing of south Asia but to Turgenev and Chekov, and the bleakness of vision of Dostoyevsky or Gogol. His Pakistan is visually beautiful - there are wonderful sketches of the rhythms of the landscape with its clouds and banyan trees and mango orchards, its sugar-cane fields and the sound of \"water running through the reeds in the canal\" - but it is also brutal and savage. Other Rooms is quite unlike anything recently published in India, and throws the gauntlet down to a new generation of Indian writers. Pakistan as a force in literature seems to be gaining greater momentum every day.William Dalrymple, writerFew writers have travelled so far - literally and metaphorically - as a young woman born in 1968 in a village in the Tiruchy district of Tamil Nadu in southern India. Rokkaiah dropped out of school in the 9th grade, and was married off early and against her will to a conservative Muslim family (like her own). She started writing poetry at the age of 13, and, despite strong familial pressure to stop, continued - writing under cover of night, and publishing under a pseudonym, Salma, that would soon be known throughout the state and beyond. Salma has published two collections of poetry, Oru Malaiyum, Innoru Malaiyum (\"One Evening, Another Evening\") and Pachai Devadhai (\"The Green Goddess\") - powerful, lyrical and explicit explorations of women's lives trapped in their homes. Along with three other poets, Salma in 2003 faced charges of obscenity (as well as death-threats). A female Muslim writer in India is a rarity; one who writes with such frankness about sex and sexuality is even rarer. On top of this, being an active and respected local politician and social activist makes Salma unique.Anita Roy, Zubaan BooksNirad C Chaudhuri is seen as an anachronism now, though in the 1960s VS Naipaul wrote that his Autobiography of an Unknown Indian was \"the one great book to come out of the Indo-English encounter\". Chaudhuri loved to be a controversialist, \"to make mischief\", as he put it, and he spent the last half of his very long life (1897-1999) upsetting as many people and orthodoxies as he could find the time to meet or examine. Chaudhuri was a genuine polymath. He wrote studies of Hinduism and biographies of Robert Clive and Max Mueller, and most of his work was marked by pugnacious and often wrong-headed judgments. But Autobiography and its sequel Thy Hand, Great Anarch! give a wonderful picture of Indian life in the first half of the last century, as well as of the author's remarkable progress from a Bengali village to a flat in north Oxford. No other Indian author has written so interestingly or frankly about himself, at least in the English language. Take the scene on the bridal bed after Chaudhuri and his new wife have just gone through their wedding rituals and are tentatively trying to get to know each other. As a great Europhile, Chaudhuri wants to know if she's heard any western classical music. She indicates that she hasn't. But has she heard of Beethoven? Yes. Can she perhaps spell his name? \"She said slowly: 'B, E, E, T, H, O, V, E, N.' I felt very encouraged. After that we talked about other things aimlessly and dozed off.\"Ian Jack, writer and editorSadaat Hasan Manto, who worked primarily as a scriptwriter in Bombay before partition, and moved to Pakistan, is the Indian Isaac Babel, a writer of dark, savage beauty, who portrayed the underbelly of Indian life like no other. I believe that the fiction coming out of Pakistan at the moment - by writers such as Mohammed Hanif, Moni Mohsin and Daniyal Mueenuddin - is the most interesting in the subcontinent. These writers are telling stories that we haven't heard before.Chiki Sarkar, editor-in-chief, Random House IndiaBetween history and memory lies the other side of Euclid's line in which Bhasha writers spin their magical worlds. Whether it is Vijaydan Detha or Naiyer Masud, Krishna Sobti or Paul Zacharia, they craft bold, alternative worlds. Yes, their writings stand for myriad imaginations across 3,300,000sq km of a linguistically exciting map. And yes, many talk of poverty and deprivation - but this is part of the global human predicament. But Bhasha writers are much more than just this. Many have a unique sense of humour and voice - vibrant, down-to-earth, alive. Dig deep with them to find where truth lies in the bewildering heterogeneity that is India. Geeta Dharmarajan, founder of the social organisation KathaGovardhan's Travels, by Anand (translated from Malayalam by Gita Krishnakutty) is a funny, skilful tale about the fate of the \"common man\". Bitingly satirical, Anand's novel (his real name is P Sachidanandan) is familiar to virtually every reader in the author's home state of Kerala, but unfortunately little known outside. The Bengali writer Mahashveta Devi calls it \"the most memorable literary event of my experience\".Urvashi Butalia, director and co-founder of Kali for WomenThe novels behind Satyajit Ray's films are great literature - Bibhutibhushan Bandopadhyay's Apu books, the works of Rabindranath Tagore, and others - many available in translation. Ray was an advertising man, tall and senatorial, a fan of Billy Wilder, and he wrote delightful children's books. His best-known are the Feluda series. The books tap into a childhood longing for mystery and detective work, but they appeal to all ages. Collections of his stories for adults remain available. His best-known book, however, is on films: Our Films Their FilmsShruti Debi, editor, Picador IndiaPublished bilingually in English and Hindi, Diddi - My mother's Voice was written by Ira Pande as a tribute to her mother, the Hindi writer Shivani. The author of more than 40 books, many of which were serialised in the literary magazine Dharmayug, Shivani had a fanatical following among her millions of readers. After her death in 2003, her daughter Ira translated a selection of her writings into English, with a commentary on her charismatic mother, and their proud and eccentric Brahmin family. She wrote the same commentary in Hindi, interspersing the original stories with personal insights. Set in the Kumaon hills in the lower Himalayas, her narrative brings fiction and memoir together into a compelling portrait of a changing society. Namita Gokhale, writer and co-director of the Jaipur literature festivalPoet, short story writer, essayist, novelist, script writer and director, Premendra Mitra (1904-1988) was a prominent figure in the cultural life of Bengal. His outstanding contribution to Bengali literature was the character Ghanshyam Das or Ghana-da. Living in an all-male hostel and rarely stepping out of it, Ghana-da spins tall tales that take us to exotic locations: the Malaysian rainforests, the South Sea Islands, the Arctic and the Antarctic. There is a constant supply of food - several rounds of mutton chops and prawn cutlets - and cigarettes as this ageless raconteur mesmerises his listeners with stories of his bravado. This lovable, legendary character, reminiscent of Baron M\u00fcnchausen, and as delightful as Herg\u00e9's Tintin, is an all-time favourite.Diya Kar Hazra, editor, Penguin India\u2022 For further information on the British Council's India '09 at the London book fair, go to: londonbookfair.co.uk or britishcouncil.org/india", "tags": ["Books", "Culture", "India", "World news", "London book fair"], "title": "Amit Chaudhuri on the new generation of Indian writers"},{"date": "2009-05-20T23:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Compared to what is happening in Sri Lanka and Pakistan, or indeed in a wider region not noted for democratic engagement, the elections in India are both to be saluted and celebrated. Saluted because the election shows a popular commitment to democracy, which goes back long before the arrival of the British, to the village parliament or panchayat. Celebrated because it produced the right result. The pundits, who to a man, predicted a weak and fractious coalition dependent on regional leaders, were stuffed. So was the rightwing Hindu nationalist BJP, which lost a large amount of territory. Congress was returned not just with a strong mandate but a national one.This is important for the renewal of a 124-year-old party deemed to be in irreversible decline. It is even more important for the prime minister, Manmohan Singh, who invested substantial amounts of political as well as financial capital in a project during his first term, which defied conventional wisdom. The National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA) provides 100 days of unskilled labour at the minimum wage to at least one member of a rural household. As an unashamed handout, the scheme has many critics. But as a substitute for absent social welfare, NREGA was a vote-winner. If Mr Singh is right to say that India is fissiparous, with vast rural swaths untouched by 9% growth rates in the last three years, then the solution has to be giving the poorest states such as Bihar a slice, however thin, of the national cake. The massive social welfare schemes Mr Singh launched in his first term were instrumental in his return to power. It runs counter to the Anglo-Saxon model with which too much of the world fell in love, but India's economy can not be run exclusively for and by its English-speaking urban elites.If rural development emerged as the leitmotiv of the campaign, it is all the more surprising that India's new government should have yesterday named security and promoting Hindu-Muslim tolerance as its two priorities. It was, after all, the BJP which played the terror card with campaign ads showing its 81-year-old leader, LK Advani, pumping iron at the gym. And Mr Singh's resistance to calls for an attack on Pakistan after the Mumbai bombings did not emerge as an election issue. The BJP turned off voters with its strident anti-Muslim rhetoric, and with the record of Narendra Modi, Gujarat's chief minister, who stood by during the riots in his state, in which 1,000 Muslims were killed. It is important to promote Hindu-Muslim tolerance, although this is not the central issue. But the part that a strong Indian government can play in regional security should not be underestimated. India's elites dislike being linked to a dysfunctional Pakistan, preferring to be ranked with China as a booming regional power. Delhi was horrified to think it would be included in Richard Holbrooke's Af-Pak regional remit, which in the end it was not. But none of that precludes the role that India could play in starting to defuse tensions with Pakistan over Kashmir. This could, in turn, work against the logic of Pakistan's military and security elites who persist in viewing India as the existential threat. Talks started under the now discredited Gen Pervez Musharraf. It would be extraordinarily difficult to continue under the fire of suicide squads trained on, and despatched from, Pakistani soil. It may not be easy to persuade India to make concessions on Kashmir to a weak government in Islamabad. But it is impossible to think of a regional Af-Pak solution without India. And it is all too easy to imagine a US withdrawal under fire if India is ignored. India is more than a country. It is also an idea, expressed by Gandhi, Nehru and Ambedkar (the untouchable who wrote so much of India's constitution). As India grows in regional importance, the challenge will be to express that idea clearly and attractively to others.", "tags": ["Indian elections 2009", "India"], "title": "India: The world's biggest vote"},{"date": "2009-05-20T21:27:31Z", "country": "india", "content": "Compared to what is happening in Sri Lanka and Pakistan, or indeed in a wider region not noted for democratic engagement, the elections in India are both to be saluted and celebrated. Saluted because the election shows a popular commitment to democracy, which goes back long before the arrival of the British, to the village parliament or panchayat. Celebrated because it produced the right result. The pundits, who to a man, predicted a weak and fractious coalition dependent on regional leaders, were stuffed. So was the rightwing Hindu nationalist BJP, which lost a large amount of territory. Congress was returned not just with a strong mandate but a national one.This is important for the renewal of a 124-year-old party deemed to be in irreversible decline. It is even more important for the prime minister, Manmohan Singh, who invested substantial amounts of political as well as financial capital in a project during his first term, which defied conventional wisdom. The National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA) provides 100 days of unskilled labour at the minimum wage to at least one member of a rural household. As an unashamed handout, the scheme has many critics. But as a substitute for absent social welfare, NREGA was a vote-winner. If Mr Singh is right to say that India is fissiparous, with vast rural swaths untouched by 9% growth rates in the last three years, then the solution has to be giving the poorest states such as Bihar a slice, however thin, of the national cake. The massive social welfare schemes Mr Singh launched in his first term were instrumental in his return to power. It runs counter to the Anglo-Saxon model with which too much of the world fell in love, but India's economy can not be run exclusively for and by its English-speaking urban elites.If rural development emerged as the leitmotiv of the campaign, it is all the more surprising that India's new government should have yesterday named security and promoting Hindu-Muslim tolerance as its two priorities. It was, after all, the BJP which played the terror card with campaign ads showing its 81-year-old leader, LK Advani, pumping iron at the gym. And Mr Singh's resistance to calls for an attack on Pakistan after the Mumbai bombings did not emerge as an election issue. The BJP turned off voters with its strident anti-Muslim rhetoric, and with the record of Narendra Modi, Gujarat's chief minister, who stood by during the riots in his state, in which 1,000 Muslims were killed. It is important to promote Hindu-Muslim tolerance, although this is not the central issue.But the part that a strong Indian \u00adgovernment can play in regional security should not be underestimated. India's elites dislike being linked to a dysfunctional Pakistan, preferring to be ranked with China as a booming regional power. Delhi was horrified to think it would be included in Richard Holbrooke's Af-Pak regional remit, which in the end it was not. But none of that precludes the role that India could play in starting to defuse tensions with Pakistan over Kashmir. This could, in turn, work against the logic of Pakistan's military and security elites who persist in viewing India as the existential threat.Talks started under the now discredited Gen\u00a0Pervez Musharraf. It would be extraordinarily difficult to continue under the fire of suicide squads trained on, and despatched from, Pakistani soil. It may not be easy to persuade India to make concessions on Kashmir to a weak government in Islamabad. But it is impossible to think of a regional Af-Pak solution without India. And it is all too easy to imagine a US withdrawal under fire if India is ignored.India is more than a country. It is also an idea, expressed by Gandhi, Nehru and Ambedkar (the untouchable who wrote so much of India's constitution). As India grows in regional importance, the challenge will be to express that idea clearly and attractively to others.", "tags": ["Indian elections 2009", "India", "World news"], "title": "India, the world's biggest vote | Editorial"},{"date": "2009-06-24T08:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Visitors to Bangalore arrive at a modern airport and take the new highway down into the city. They see the buildings they expect in India's IT capital. Those of us who live here enjoy finding corners where we can remember Bangalore's past. There are statues of ancient chieftains, and stones by the side of the road commemorate their heroism in a forgotten form of the current language. There are colonial buildings and beautiful private gardens from the time this was a garden city, \"the pensioners' paradise\".Our neighbourhood is special because it has a small piece of Bangalore's future, and most of us are not sure what to do about it. Our estate is fairly new \u2013 we are still shown as a coconut grove on the city map \u2013 but built in traditional style. Houses are two or three storeys with stairs outside. Typically the landlord lives on the ground floor and tenants on the floors above.We buy our vegetables from a barrow, groceries from the little kiosk-like shops on every corner. The rich and well-organised order their rice and flour in large sacks, and keep them in locked storerooms.The new supermarket, very much part of modern Bangalore, does not fit our neighbourhood. It is serving puzzled people. In the morning I go for wholemeal bread and sterilised milk, which the corner shops don't stock. Morning is when the maids come to buy breakfast supplies, and they wander the aisles looking for a old-style counter where they can just ask for what they need.When I go in the evening, housewives in saris have come to make bigger purchases. They would like to bargain. They expect the manager to chat to solid customers such as themselves. But this supermarket is part of a chain, and managers have been trained to behave in a new and different way. The ladies in saris are affronted.I felt sad at their discomfort but yesterday, I saw a different sight when I went for my milk. Four young Muslim women, completely covered except for intelligent eyes, had invaded. They divided the aisles between them, doing a quick inventory, and then darting to the checkout: \"Where was this? Why didn't the market stock that? When would the next shipment arrive?\" Then they darted off to the shelves again, making the place their own. Very soon this store will be a part of our neighbourhood.", "tags": ["India holidays", "India"], "title": "India: supermarkets arrive in the garden city"},{"date": "2009-06-18T18:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "According to Kapil Komireddi in these very pages, the demise of Pakistan is \"inevitable\" because it has since foundation been a source of division and extremism. This is not a new argument. Virtually every western analyst, now happily joined by a chorus of Indian observers mysteriously bereft of regional contexts and history, believes that the Pakistan state, as opposed to merely extremists within its borders, is the single greatest threat to international peace and security.On paper, there is much to support this line of thinking. Pakistan is, after all, a highly mismanaged, corrupt developing state that has fostered religious extremism for decades while continuing to build a formidable nuclear arsenal. The prospect of the Taliban getting its hands on Pakistan's nukes is the stuff of nightmares, and Dick Cheney's dreams. It is hard to think of a more frightening scenario.With the exception of North Korea, no nuclear-armed nation is as scrutinised as Pakistan. Yet nuclear proliferation is on the rise worldwide. According to the Pentagon, Pakistan is expanding its nuclear arsenal more quickly than any other country. But India is not far behind and, along with China, Russia and the United States, is busy improving the size and quality of its weapon delivery systems.On closer reflection, the idea that the Pakistan state is inherently dangerous turns out to be a lazy mantra used by those who wish to ignore history and avoid a more complicated reality.A nation state is a rather nebulous concept at the best of time. But when a state as hurriedly created (in 1947), poorly managed and with as many centres of power as Pakistan is in question, it becomes difficult to establish diabolical intent, though not impossible.Pakistan society is as divided as it is diverse, and its elites reflect these traits. Within the army, the most powerful institution in the country, there are careerists, Islamists and khaki businessmen more consumed with wealth accumulation via shady army welfare trusts than nuclear jihad. That is not to say the army is incapable of Machiavellian strategies. For decades, it has looked to install a pro-Pakistan regime in Afghanistan.Following the war with the Soviets in Afghanistan, and generous encouragement of the US and Saudi Arabia, the army looked to radical Islamists to fulfil this role. It is also true that much of Pakistani society, including the army, has a pathological fear of India-engineered oblivion. Even now there are strong suggestions the army is supporting anti-India militancy in Kashmir.Along with commentators such as Komireddi, the US has routinely and very publicly criticised Pakistan for refusing to shift the lion's share of its troops stationed along the border with India (most of them are in Kashmir).It is true that the army has been slow to react to the Taliban insurgency within Pakistan. Only last month did it finally decide to mount decisive action against Taliban encroachment in the country, and this after years of reaching peace agreements that saw the insurgents move into as much as 11% of the country.But these sobering details do not an evil empire make.Spare a thought for the Indian army. As the security analyst Farrukh Saleem wrote recently:This year alone, India will spend close to $40bn (US) on its armed forces, up to eight times as much Pakistan. It has fought four major wars with Pakistan and, in each, matched its much smaller rival in bellicosity and provocation.Such facts do not to absolve Pakistan's army of responsibility for stifling militancy. But to consider Pakistan's role in creating the instability currently engulfing the subcontinent without considering India is like studying the Cuban missile crisis without reference to American warheads pointed towards the then Soviet Union.And therein lies the problem for so many Indians and Pakistanis. Lost in the west's division between good and bad third-world citizens, many have become blind to their country's own ills. It was in India, after all, that a pogrom arranged by fanatical Hindu groups assisted by the Gujarat government led to the murder of thousands of Muslims and Christians.Fascism has an old pedigree in India \u2013 the anti-British nationalist Subhash Chandra Bose, who fought with the Japanese against Her Majesty's forces during the second world war, marvelled at Hitler's reinvigoration of the German state. At the last Indian elections, the fascist Bajrang Dal and Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh parties openly lobbied on a Hindu supremacist platform. The reflections with the Taliban could not be clearer.Many in Pakistan still refuse to accept that there is homegrown extremism in their country. They remain convinced that Indian, Israeli or American agencies (or all three in collusion) are stoking the flames of extremism to discredit Pakistan because it is the only Muslim nation with nuclear weapons. All the while, Pakistani school children continue to be fed lies about Indian designs over the country and the virtues of Pakistan's historically inept army.For Indians, as for Pakistanis, the tired routine of pointing the finger across the border has served little other purpose than to deflect attention away from the very pressing problems at home. The sad irony is that India and Pakistan still share much the same tribulations some six decades after they were sliced apart.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Taliban", "India", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan: caught between India and the Taliban | Mustafa Qadri"},{"date": "2009-05-08T23:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Diana Quick is telling me about the morning of her father's death. The actor, famous as Julia Flyte in the 1981 TV series Brideshead Revisited, was an 18-year-old student at Oxford Univeristy. Leonard Quick, a prosperous dentist, was 50. He was waking up in the family house in Kent when he had a heart attack. \"He was in his prime,\" his daughter, now 62, tells me. She is speaking softly, in a clipped voice. \"It was a coronary. He was taken to hospital and made comfortable; the belief was that they'd got it in time. But he had a second attack, and died.\"This moment, Quick says, marked a huge turning-point in her life. Before her father's death, she had led a charmed life. She had got into Oxford at 17 to study English literature and was not only beautiful and clever, but funny, too - she would soon be in The Oxford Line, a comedy revue, with John Sergeant, Simon Brett and Nigel Rees. She epitomised the 60s - one of those mini-skirted girls who were the first generation to go on the pill. She even knew Mick Jagger. On the morning of her father's death, Diana Quick was cycling, on a pink bicycle, to a lecture by Isaiah Berlin.When she got back to her college, Quick found a note in her pigeonhole. It said: \"Contact your tutor IMMEDIATELY.\" Her tutor, Kathleen Lea, told her to sit down. Everything that had happened before this moment had gone right for Diana Quick; later, her friends would tell her that she had been so confident that she was \"hard to take\". Her close friend Hermione Lee, also an Oxford student, would say: \"You were insufferable, you know.\"Kathleen Lea told her what had happened. Stunned, Quick made her way back home, to the heart of her grieving family. That day, she says, was a blur. She arrived at her parents' - now, suddenly, her mother's - big Edwardian villa on the outskirts of Dartford to be met by her mother, Joan, her older sister, Julie, and her brothers, Clive and Richard. They went together to see Leonard's body. Quick remembers that his ears were \"blackish-blue\" with pooled blood, and that this was the thing that made her sure, beyond any doubt, that he was really dead.\"You don't consider it, do you?\" she says. \"You feel immortal and you feel those about you are. Very few people I knew had died. I didn't really think about getting old and dying.\" There is a silence, while we both think the same thought. Leonard Quick was not old. \"He was 50,\" she says. \"From where I am now, that seems cruelly young.\"But his death was hugely significant in another way. Until that moment, his daughter had known virtually nothing about his early life. And now she was full of questions. For one thing, his funeral was to be at a Catholic church. She hadn't known he was a Catholic. She knew he had grown up in India, arrived in England at the age of 17 and never went home. She had met his father and stepmother, her grandparents, only twice, briefly, even though they had moved from the subcontinent to Surrey. She hadn't really questioned the fact that the two senior Quicks, Bertie and Nora, had never visited their son's house. Their names were hardly mentioned. Why?\"I had an intimation that there was something I didn't know,\" says Quick. \"It was never discussed. My father was a very warm, gregarious, sociable person who had many interests. He lived his life very much in the present, full of activities and the next project. He had many hobbies. He was not given to retrospection. There are lots of things that I would have wanted to know about his life, that I suddenly couldn't ask. And my mother blocked any questions about it - she either didn't know, or she wasn't telling.\" I am talking to Quick in the bar of a London hotel across from the Thames; she says she has spent the last 10 years looking for the answers to the questions her mother wouldn't answer. The result of those 10 years is A Tug on the Thread, one of the best family memoirs I've read in a long time. Quick - who, as a young actor, was photographed in French Vogue by Cecil Beaton and was once described as \"the most beautiful woman in the world\" - is still good-looking. She is dressed in practical trousers and a white shirt. The impression I get is of a fierce intellect just beginning to blossom - she spent years playing alluring, mysterious women, then years playing slightly older women who were cracking up, and then, as she puts it, a series of \"bonking grannies\".She has been married, once, to the actor Kenneth Cranham, and had a long relationship, now over, with the actor Bill Nighy, with whom she has a 24-year-old daughter, Mary. Her divorce from Cranham was amicable: \"We went Dutch on the divorce; it cost us \u00a316 each.\" There was no acrimony over the splitting up of household items - on the contrary, it was all \"No - you take it.\" Later, she introduced Cranham to Charlotte Cornwell, with whom he had a daughter. Although, she says, the two have split up, her daughter with Nighy and Cranham's daughter with Cornwell have an almost-sisterly relationship. Quick seems uncomfortable talking about Nighy. All she will say is that they were together and now they are not. And that she lives in the house she shared with Nighy \"with friends - it's a very good arrangement\". And that a married man propositioned her recently. \"He explained to me that his parents, who were public figures, had a 19th-century marriage. I said: 'What does that mean?' And he said: 'You get the heir and the spare, and you do what you like.' And I said: 'Well, I'm not old-fashioned enough for that.'\"Still, she's quite bohemian and laid-back. But her characters are usually uptight and controlling: women who are obsessed with propriety and who cut off their families. For instance, there was Eva in the Diane Samuels play Kindertransport, a Jewish woman whose mother had saved her from the Nazis by putting her on a train bound for England. Later, when the mother reappears in Eva's life, she rejects her - because, as Quick says, \"the cost of re-opening those old wounds is too high\". Then there was Murielle in Simone de Beauvoir's play The Woman Destroyed - a tragic, spiteful bitch who alienates her husbands and children. And Mrs Alving in Ibsen's Ghosts, who has spent her life trying to cover up the unsavoury facts about her husband, and destroys herself in the process. And, of course, Julia Flyte, who, like her father (played by Laurence Olivier in the television series), spends her life denying her Catholic faith, only to be pulled back towards it by, in Evelyn Waugh's phrase, \"a twitch upon the thread\". This, of course, is why Quick calls her book A Tug on the Thread. She came from a family steeped in denial, and it is this denial that she has been playing out ever since. For the book, she traced her family history back to her great-grandfather, Christopher Quick, who enlisted in the army as a teenager and sailed to India in the early 1870s. He had a drink problem and spent some time in jail. At the age of 32, he married an Anglo-Indian woman - someone whose parentage included both English and Indian forebears. The couple had three Anglo-Indian children, one of whom was Bertie, the grandfather who ended up in Surrey but was never mentioned in Diana's house.Bertie Quick did well. He became a dental surgeon in the foothills of the Himalayas, and also a general surgeon who patched up soldiers wounded in skirmishes on the north-west frontier. He had three children, one of whom was Leonard, and two houses. But, as an Anglo-Indian, he was never admitted to the pukka clubs - he would always be outside the pale. However, he had a plan: he would encourage Leonard to study dentistry in England, so that when his son came back home, Bertie could join forces with him in a newly anglicised practice. It would be enough, just, to bring the Quicks back from the pale, and possibly enough to satisfy Bertie's horribly snobbish second wife, Nora.But it was not to be. When Leonard went to London to study dentistry at Guy's hospital, he fell in love with Joan, Diana's mother. He didn't want to come back. And so began a titanic struggle. Bertie cut off Leonard's money; Leonard nearly went hungry; Leonard could see no way of completing his studies, and therefore becoming a dentist and able to marry Joan. But Joan's father lent Leonard the money he needed to get himself through his course. Leonard married Joan, and was cut off by his family in India. Later, as the Raj began to crumble, Bertie and Nora moved to England, where they had never lived. Leonard and Bertie never spoke. Bertie died in 1966; he outlived Leonard by six months. Neither Diana nor her siblings have any memories of Bertie at Leonard's funeral.One of the things that Quick has done so well is to show how the forces of snobbery and racism work their way through families, generation after generation. She has also written a book that describes the social conditions in the Raj better than almost any other I have read. She talked to many Anglo-Indians, some of whom \"passed for white\"; one man would only speak under a cloak of secrecy. He lived in the home counties and everybody thought he was English. \"He thought his friends would look at him differently,\" says Quick - and he might have been right. \"He kept saying: 'Let sleeping dogs lie.'\"She misses her father. If he was still alive, he'd be in his 90s now. \"I'd have had a companion,\" she says, \"because we always did get along so well. But if he hadn't died, I don't think I'd have got to know my mother in the way that I did.\" She spent a lot of time with her mother - years of mother-and-daughter holidays. Joan Quick died three years ago, of Parkinson's disease, in her early 90s.She remembers with huge fondness her childhood home: the big villa with bow windows and a balcony added by Joan's father. \"It was very warm and welcoming; there were lots of nooks and crannies. There was room to go away and have privacy, which is something I always craved. The house, she says, was always untidy. Always full of people. \"Always ringing with 'Has anybody seen my...?' and 'Who's had that?' And if you opened any cupboard, half of its contents would fall out.\"My parents liked to go dancing, and they encouraged all of us to bring our friends home. My brother had a skiffle group, and there would often be dancing in the house. And my parents would come and dance with us.\" I can imagine them, too - the teenage Quick, dancing; her brother and his friends bashing out the music; and Leonard and Joan joining in. Perhaps it is 1965. Diana Quick doesn't know it yet, but this is the end of her charmed life.\u2022 A Tug on the Thread: From the British Raj to the British Stage by Diana Quick is published by Virago at \u00a317.99 and is available at the Guardian bookshop.", "tags": ["Family", "British identity and society", "Life and style", "UK news"], "title": "Diana Quick discovers a passage from India"},{"date": "2009-04-17T23:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The theme of the London book fair this year is Indian writing. Vikram Seth, Amartya Sen, William Dalrymple and other writers in frequent circulation in this country are going to be joined by writers - K Satchidanandan, Javed Akhtar - distinguished or popular on their own terrain but less known here, for five days of discussions and celebrations. Something like this happened in 2006 to the Frankfurt book fair, when planeloads of Indian novelists and poets descended on the Intercontinental Hotel, waved to each other over breakfast, and then read from their work to courteous audiences in the afternoons and evenings.The theme then, too, was India; and the \"idea of India\" acted as a catalyst to a process that might have already begun, but received, at that moment, a recognisable impetus - the confluence, in one place, of literary and intellectual dialogue with what is basically business activity, each bringing magic and movement to the other. The India-themed Paris book fair followed swiftly.Both these events proved a few things. Firstly, you were reminded of the variety of genres that Indian writers - especially those who write in languages other than English - had practised for much of the 20th century. In the hotel lobbies, the caf\u00e9s and restaurants in adjoining streets, not to speak of the venues, you kept running into poets, critics, short-story writers, historians, playwrights from the many Indian literatures; and, of course, novelists. The English language had, it would seem, only thrown up novelists in India in the last 30 years; the truth is that there were and are excellent English-language poets, but few, or none, had been invited.As to the writers from the more troubled regions outside the metropolitan suburbs in which English alone was spoken, you could see, if you scratched the surface of their slightly bureaucratic veneer, that they possessed an eclecticism of taste and literary predilections, a formal curiosity, as well as a true multilingualism, that made them quite akin - paradoxically for brown men wandering about the streets of Frankfurt and Paris - to the breed of writers once called \"European\". However, no one, I think, asked them about their relationship to Europe, though each of them would have had an answer to the question; this was a reminder of the odd discrepancy between language - and I don't just mean English and French and Hindi - and vantage-point and intention that sometimes characterised interactions between audiences and writers.The other thing that hit you was the amount of money the Indian government had to spare for culture; it was one of the main sponsors of these events, and had made these migratory, crowded, but characteristically desultory congregations possible. Why now? And just how much thought had gone into the meetings and readings? Perhaps a great deal more could have been done over the decades following independence to give us a greater and more acute sense of our literary history as moderns, especially as more funding seemed to have been available than had been assumed. We in India have no equivalent of the Modern Library, for instance, nor anything like the Penguin Modern European Poets series, let alone properly influential critical and scholarly work on 20th-century literature. Are the book fairs, with their new kind of commingling, sending out a hint - perhaps an unintended one - about the timeliness of such initiatives to their organisers?Another revealing aspect of Frankfurt and Paris was the evidently unconstricted and even unpredictable way foreign rights were sold by Indian publishers (without, necessarily, British mediation) to European countries: this explained the random mix of celebrities and little-known practitioners, of the \"latest thing\" in Indian writing in English as well as the older and occasionally infirm writers (members of a deceased avant-garde) in the Indian languages. Some of these people have hardly been translated into English, but are often available in French or German, and there are students writing doctorates on their work. The putative common pool of the Indo-European languages (established at first in the late 18th century by a Welshman, William Jones, and put into circulation in Europe by the Germans Schlegel, Schiller, Goethe and later Max Mueller) probably - who knows? - still stirs faintly in the memory of European academia as it hardly does in the Anglo-Saxon world. Or, possibly, the fact that these countries have less of a direct relationship with India than Britain allows for the frequently hit-or-miss but sometimes surprising nature of the Indian list on the European publishers' catalogues. What will London bring that Frankfurt and Paris haven't? Certainly, it seems to have taken the cue from the two European cities in at least one regard: it hasn't invited only those writers who are published in this country - that is, Anglophone writers of prose. So, for instance, we will have, besides Vikram Seth, Ramachandra Guha and Patrick French, the Urdu-language theorist Gopi Chand Narang, the Bengali poet and novelist Sunil Ganguly, and the English-language poet and novelist Mamang Dai from the idyllic, remote Arunachal Pradesh. In other words, the book fair should bring some intimation to audiences in London of an explosion in writing that is not 30 but perhaps 200 years old, the consequence of a venerable, many-tongued, and still astonishing lineage in modernism.There will also be two writers who have aired their disagreements with each other in these pages - the Englishman William Radice, poet, translator of Tagore, and, until recently, poet laureate-aspirant, and the younger Jeet Thayil, poet, critic, editor of an anthology of Indian poetry in English, and defender (odd but instructive that it should need defending even now, in a way that Indian fiction no longer does) of the continued viability of Indian English poetry. Not all of these choices are risky ones; many of these writers (myself included) now spend a fair amount of time in the ghostly, mnemonic world of international book fairs, in their guise as crowded transit lounges for the nation; here we wait, eat, talk to each other, ignore acquaintances, as the difference between airport, venue and hotel gradually diminishes. But does this journey lead somewhere? Will it change the way Indian writing is configured within British publishing?How does travel shape and qualify writing and nationality (a common enough conundrum), especially when they take on this form - the transcontinental literary event; the book reading in a foreign location? And how do these writers cohere and relate to each other in our minds: what is it, besides the book fair and perhaps the place of birth on their passports or some long-standing enthusiasm, that makes K Satchidanandan and Tarun J Tejpal and Dalrymple all, in some sense, \"Indian\" writers? One thing we do know is that travel is not only about bringing your particular skills, wares, identity and lineage to a place, but being changed by, and learning from, the act of travelling and facing up to foreignness. In roughly the past 20 years India has changed from being a Nehruvian nation-state - an experiment and ideal in democracy - to a portable mode of existence, as well as a form of self-justification for a curious mixture of free-market opportunism and a slyly conservative provincialism. This means that Indians, as they travel, migrate and resettle, have increasingly begun to deflect the problem - and the rewards - of encountering foreignness, and strangeness, and the notion of \"India\" has helped them in (has, in fact, been crucial to) this deflection. The so-called Indian diaspora ceased, really, to want either to integrate with, or radically revise, the landscape they moved to in the 1980s and 90s (usually, the United States, succeeding the earlier wave of immigration to Britain); instead, they wished to conform silently and, simultaneously, to continue as themselves. This has led to a unique combination of acceptance and denial. In 2002, spending some months in America, I found an array of young first-generation Indian settlers in the more well-to-do suburbs of New Jersey and Atlanta, almost entirely, and pretty aggressively, committed to American foreign policy and the Bush dispensation, and yet also clinging to Indian film songs and DVDs and food and marriages, a universe on which contemporary American culture, and Americans themselves, impinged only rarely. This was one of the many recognisable versions of \"India\" that have sprung up in the last two decades, where \"foreignness\" does not actually occur in any compelling way. Jhumpa Lahiri has only recently begun to hint - with a delicate abstention from the obvious - at the silence that surrounds this microcosm, in the stories in her bestselling collection Unaccustomed EarthSo much of what the Indian middle class sees as its ideal present and its possible future, including its thoughts on the role of literature, emanates from, or emerges in relation to, these American suburbs. In a survey undertaken last year, it turned out that India lagged behind America alone in its love for that country and for George Bush. (\"India\" here is a metonym for the middle class, and vice versa.) In the Clinton era, and even more pronouncedly in the Bush era, the US came to be seen as a facilitator of India's own teeming, importunate ambitions, for its true place in the world, and, therefore, as a familial figure, in keeping with the Indian middle class's interpretation of family, as an institution that is primarily a guarantor of self-interest. When India looks at America, it sees a comforting or discomfiting (according to the phase of history it then inhabits) extension of its own welfare - much in the way that a child invents its mother. This version of the familial also seems to direct the way a large number of Anglophone Indians view what they think of as literature. Their incongruously intimate, emotion-prone and proprietorial relationship with the Booker prize is a case in point. Here, feelings of self-approbation and self-doubt characterise the response to the outcome; and rarely was this inability to escape anxieties to do with prestige clearer than in 2008, when there were two Indians on the shortlist. An uneasy family drama ensued in India, with scorn being poured on one Indian, Aravind Adiga, and felicitations being made prematurely to the other, Amitav Ghosh. When Adiga won, there was patrician outrage; national - or family - pride had been violated. Word had soon got out in the British press that the other serious contender for the prize besides Adiga, as far as the judges were concerned, was Sebastian Barry. This Irish writer, however, hardly penetrated the Indian consciousness, and nor had the others on the list besides the two mentioned; the heterogeneity of Anglophone writing is not something that Indians are any longer prepared to do business with. Similarly, there's a sense, in the context of the new, middle-class Indian, of an end to the notion of travel as disjunction and discovery.Travel, anyway, shapes the literary festival, the book fair, in paradoxically enclosing ways, and with a degree of unreality. You cover great distances, sometimes, to arrive at the literary festival, but the festival itself is a province, an enclosure. This special provincialism and curious lack of movement becomes more intense when the theme is nationality, or a national literature, as has been the case with the \"international\" festivals concerning India this century. It started in 2002 at Neemrana, a heritage fort outside Delhi converted into a luxury hotel, where the Indian Council for Cultural Relations hosted the first India-themed literary conference, a gathering of well-known writers with the polarising figure of VS Naipaul at the centre. For three days, the writers read from and discussed their work to and with each other; there was access neither to the public nor to the world outside the ancient fortress walls. It was a bit like a Walter de la Mare ghost story, with several sinister and incredible possibilities hanging in the air simultaneously; and the feeling of circularity and repetition was confirmed later, when the conference moved to Delhi and was opened to the public, and India turned out to be almost the only point of reference in the conversations and the questions and answers. Personally, I think I could find out more about myself by asking Ian Jack (to take a random example; he wasn't present at Neemrana) what he thinks about Hugh MacDiarmid or Muriel Spark, or the Scottish education system in the 60s, or his experiences as a newspaper editor in Thatcher's England, than by interrogating him on India; this is because we're both - as a Bengali and a Scotsman - historical beings invested and implicated in the 20th and unfolding 21st centuries, and will address each other most profoundly, despite our differences, only by addressing our own deepest memories about ourselves. I think the Scotsman understands this, which is why he doesn't constantly ask me what I think about Scotland; but I wonder if the Indian does. To constantly look for yourself even when you encounter the foreign is never to travel; while we know that it's in observing and overhearing others as we journey that we often discover unexpected dimensions of ourselves.The question, then, is whether, and in what ways, the literary festival or book fair (in Frankfurt or Paris or Delhi or London) can open up to the fact of foreignness and travel. In Paris, I remember, most of us stayed in our hotel rooms, or idly explored the huge, over-populated venue; on the bus between hotel and venue, I said to the Kannada novelist UR Anantha Murthy (who will be present in London), \"Is that the real Eiffel tower?\" - for we'd seen it from many angles outside the bus window in the last day and a half, illuminated during the night, deceptively proximate by daylight, a consoling fiction. Anantha Murthy shook his head gravely at its dogged ubiquity, at the very fact that the tower outside the window denoted at once that we were irrefutably in Paris and yet never in it, and said: \"To escape the Eiffel tower you have to go inside it,\" adding, with a smile: \"I think it was Barthes who said that.\" Much the same could be said of identity and nationality; that, for their monumental, visible qualities to evaporate, you have to somehow disappear into them. Anantha Murthy's (for me, utterly surprising) remark made me aware, momentarily, of the contingencies of travel and literature in a way that few of the seminars did: that I knew almost as little, or as much, about his sensibility as I did about Paris.This admission brings me back to the question: how are Indian writers located within a single space - a hotel lobby; a seminar room; a tradition - actually related to each other? I asked myself this for the first time as I began to put together, at the beginning of the 2000s, The Picador Book of Modern Indian Literature: what, for example, connected the 19th-century Bengali poet Michael Madhusudan Dutt to Salman Rushdie, Rushdie to UR Anantha Murthy, and Anantha Murthy to Vikram Seth? The generic word \"Indian\" by itself provided no key. But the idea of travel did - not just travel within these writers' lives, but form and canon and genre themselves being kinds of travel, of experiencing the foreign. Anantha Murthy had discovered his subject-matter - an existential tale about a Brahmin set in rural Karnataka - while watching Bergman's The Seventh Seal, without subtitles, in Birmingham with his supervisor Malcolm Bradbury; Rushdie had read The Tin Drum in an almost auditory mode (he could hear the resounding drumbeat) and had also been studying Bu\u00f1uel and Satyajit Ray; Dutt, in the early 1860s, had begun to refine the sonnet in the Bengali language in the melancholy of Versailles; while Seth, more than a 100 years later, had been struck by the ebullience of Pushkin's use of the tetrameter and the sonnet in Eugene Onegin. All this - that is, the movements and paths along which Indian literature had been shaped in the past 200 years - had occurred before fax machines and the internet had come into existence; before the knowledge that accrues with travel had become information, and when travel was still a code for survival and daydreaming, and almost an unspoken faith.Tagore came to England as an unhappy teenager in 1878, and heard western music properly almost for the first time; more than 40 years later, in what might be read as a gesture of reciprocity, he arranged for the Bauhaus artists' works to be exhibited in Calcutta. In the early 1960s, Allen Ginsberg and Peter Orlovsky came to India, hung out with the avant-garde Calcutta poets (of whom one, Sunil Ganguly, will be attending the London book fair in a more canonical incarnation), went to Bombay and met, among others, the poets Arun Kolatkar, Adil Jussawalla and Nissim Ezekiel, and returned to America with various manifestos and poems ready for translation. Around this time, and very soon after Robert Lowell published his Imitations, the bilingual Arun Kolatkar (who died five years ago) had begun to compose his extraordinary contemporary versions in English of the Marathi medieval devotional saint-poet Tukaram. When I think of these moments, I'm reminded afresh of the emergence of literature as a network and a form of complex, far-flung exchange, long before the emergence of \"information\" and present-day modes of travel. It's this mystery that informs the list of \"favourite\" writers Kolatkar provides for an Indian interviewer in a mood of exasperation and mischievousness, a list in which the dead and the living, like and unlike, mingle disconcertingly: \"Whitman, Mardhekar, Manmohan, Eliot, Pound, Auden, Hart Crane, Dylan Thomas, Kafka, Baudelaire, Heine, Catullus, Villon, Dnyaneshwar, Namdev, Janabai, Eknath, Tukaram, Wang Wei. Tu Fu, Han Shan ... Mandelshtam, Dostoevsky, Gogol, Isaac Bashevis Singer, Babel, Apollinaire, Breton, Brecht, Neruda, Ginsberg ... Henry Miller, Nabokov, Namdeo Dhasal, Patthe Bapurav, Rabelais ... Rex Stout, Agatha Christie ... Bhalchandra Nemade ... Lewis Carroll, John Lennon, Bob Dylan, Sylvia Plath, Ted Hughes, Godse Bhatji ... Kabir, Robert Johnson, Muddy Waters, Leadbelly, Howling Wolf, John Lee Hooker ... Kurosawa, Eisenstein, Truffaut, Woody Guthrie, Laurel and Hardy.\" This is probably as good an intellectual history of Indian literature as any other. Uncontained by either genre or nationality, it happens to contain two figures - the \"untouchable\" Dalit poet Namdeo Dhasal and the Marathi novelist-critic Bhalchandra Nemade - who'll also be making their way this week to London. It remains to be seen if any of the others mentioned will put in an appearance.I recommend Namdeo Dhasal: Poet of the Underworld (1972-2006). It is raw, disturbing stuff. I don't agree with his politics now (he supports the Hindutva brigade), but his work should be read because it tells of what a brutal society we live in.Arundhati Roy, novelistPublished in England by the Hogarth Press in 1940 - and championed by Woolf and Forster - Ahmed Ali's Twilight in Delhi was one of the first Indian novels to create a stir among literary circles in England. And not just among literary circles - the printers refused, at first, to publish it because of its critical comments about colonial rule. Set in Old Delhi in 1911 at the time of George V's coronation ceremony, it describes the life of Mir Nihal and his family. They live in a world conscious that its glory days (during the Mughal empire) have long since passed. Ali's style may seem ornate to some readers, but his description of the dying world of Delhi is gloriously atmospheric, and the rhythms of the language pull you in. Kamila Shamsie, novelistQurratulain Hyder, novelist, short story writer and prose stylist of rare accomplishment, is one of Urdu's greatest writers. Literary critic Aamer Hussein has compared her to her contemporaries, Milan Kundera and Gabriel Garcia Marquez, as \"one of the world's major writers: eclectic, iconoclastic and versatile\". In her 30s, she wrote her magnum opus, Aag ka Darya - published in English for the first time in 1998 as River of Fire - a great river of a novel, majestic in its sweep, grand in its vision. She maintained that writing can encompass \"fact, reportage, imagination, documentary presentation, the epistolary form\", even cinematic treatment. All her novels, novellas and short stories are a testament to this belief, as well as to her cosmopolitanism and uncompromising secularism. Ritu Menon, founder of Women Unlimited, India's oldest feminist pressDaniyal Mueenuddin's outstanding collection of short stories, In Other Rooms, Other Wonders, is rooted in a rural landscape, like the stories of RK Narayan, but is far blacker than Narayan's work, with the trajectory of each story ending in a shell-burst of loss and tragedy. Mueenuddin looks for inspiration not to the writing of south Asia but to Turgenev and Chekov, and the bleakness of vision of Dostoyevsky or Gogol. His Pakistan is visually beautiful - there are wonderful sketches of the rhythms of the landscape with its clouds and banyan trees and mango orchards, its sugar-cane fields and the sound of \"water running through the reeds in the canal\" - but it is also brutal and savage. Other Rooms is quite unlike anything recently published in India, and throws the gauntlet down to a new generation of Indian writers. Pakistan as a force in literature seems to be gaining greater momentum every day.William Dalrymple, writerFew writers have travelled so far - literally and metaphorically - as a young woman born in 1968 in a village in the Tiruchy district of Tamil Nadu in southern India. Rokkaiah dropped out of school in the 9th grade, and was married off early and against her will to a conservative Muslim family (like her own). She started writing poetry at the age of 13, and, despite strong familial pressure to stop, continued - writing under cover of night, and publishing under a pseudonym, Salma, that would soon be known throughout the state and beyond. Salma has published two collections of poetry, Oru Malaiyum, Innoru Malaiyum (\"One Evening, Another Evening\") and Pachai Devadhai (\"The Green Goddess\") - powerful, lyrical and explicit explorations of women's lives trapped in their homes. Along with three other poets, Salma in 2003 faced charges of obscenity (as well as death-threats). A female Muslim writer in India is a rarity; one who writes with such frankness about sex and sexuality is even rarer. On top of this, being an active and respected local politician and social activist makes Salma unique.Anita Roy, Zubaan BooksNirad C Chaudhuri is seen as an anachronism now, though in the 1960s VS Naipaul wrote that his Autobiography of an Unknown Indian was \"the one great book to come out of the Indo-English encounter\". Chaudhuri loved to be a controversialist, \"to make mischief\", as he put it, and he spent the last half of his very long life (1897-1999) upsetting as many people and orthodoxies as he could find the time to meet or examine. Chaudhuri was a genuine polymath. He wrote studies of Hinduism and biographies of Robert Clive and Max Mueller, and most of his work was marked by pugnacious and often wrong-headed judgments. But Autobiography and its sequel Thy Hand, Great Anarch! give a wonderful picture of Indian life in the first half of the last century, as well as of the author's remarkable progress from a Bengali village to a flat in north Oxford. No other Indian author has written so interestingly or frankly about himself, at least in the English language. Take the scene on the bridal bed after Chaudhuri and his new wife have just gone through their wedding rituals and are tentatively trying to get to know each other. As a great Europhile, Chaudhuri wants to know if she's heard any western classical music. She indicates that she hasn't. But has she heard of Beethoven? Yes. Can she perhaps spell his name? \"She said slowly: 'B, E, E, T, H, O, V, E, N.' I felt very encouraged. After that we talked about other things aimlessly and dozed off.\"Ian Jack, writer and editorSadaat Hasan Manto, who worked primarily as a scriptwriter in Bombay before partition, and moved to Pakistan, is the Indian Isaac Babel, a writer of dark, savage beauty, who portrayed the underbelly of Indian life like no other. I believe that the fiction coming out of Pakistan at the moment - by writers such as Mohammed Hanif, Moni Mohsin and Daniyal Mueenuddin - is the most interesting in the subcontinent. These writers are telling stories that we haven't heard before.Chiki Sarkar, editor-in-chief, Random House IndiaBetween history and memory lies the other side of Euclid's line in which Bhasha writers spin their magical worlds. Whether it is Vijaydan Detha or Naiyer Masud, Krishna Sobti or Paul Zacharia, they craft bold, alternative worlds. Yes, their writings stand for myriad imaginations across 3,300,000sq km of a linguistically exciting map. And yes, many talk of poverty and deprivation - but this is part of the global human predicament. But Bhasha writers are much more than just this. Many have a unique sense of humour and voice - vibrant, down-to-earth, alive. Dig deep with them to find where truth lies in the bewildering heterogeneity that is India. Geeta Dharmarajan, founder of the social organisation KathaGovardhan's Travels, by Anand (translated from Malayalam by Gita Krishnakutty) is a funny, skilful tale about the fate of the \"common man\". Bitingly satirical, Anand's novel (his real name is P Sachidanandan) is familiar to virtually every reader in the author's home state of Kerala, but unfortunately little known outside. The Bengali writer Mahashveta Devi calls it \"the most memorable literary event of my experience\".Urvashi Butalia, director and co-founder of Kali for WomenThe novels behind Satyajit Ray's films are great literature - Bibhutibhushan Bandopadhyay's Apu books, the works of Rabindranath Tagore, and others - many available in translation. Ray was an advertising man, tall and senatorial, a fan of Billy Wilder, and he wrote delightful children's books. His best-known are the Feluda series. The books tap into a childhood longing for mystery and detective work, but they appeal to all ages. Collections of his stories for adults remain available. His best-known book, however, is on films: Our Films Their FilmsShruti Debi, editor, Picador IndiaPublished bilingually in English and Hindi, Diddi - My mother's Voice was written by Ira Pande as a tribute to her mother, the Hindi writer Shivani. The author of more than 40 books, many of which were serialised in the literary magazine Dharmayug, Shivani had a fanatical following among her millions of readers. After her death in 2003, her daughter Ira translated a selection of her writings into English, with a commentary on her charismatic mother, and their proud and eccentric Brahmin family. She wrote the same commentary in Hindi, interspersing the original stories with personal insights. Set in the Kumaon hills in the lower Himalayas, her narrative brings fiction and memoir together into a compelling portrait of a changing society. Namita Gokhale, writer and co-director of the Jaipur literature festivalPoet, short story writer, essayist, novelist, script writer and director, Premendra Mitra (1904-1988) was a prominent figure in the cultural life of Bengal. His outstanding contribution to Bengali literature was the character Ghanshyam Das or Ghana-da. Living in an all-male hostel and rarely stepping out of it, Ghana-da spins tall tales that take us to exotic locations: the Malaysian rainforests, the South Sea Islands, the Arctic and the Antarctic. There is a constant supply of food - several rounds of mutton chops and prawn cutlets - and cigarettes as this ageless raconteur mesmerises his listeners with stories of his bravado. This lovable, legendary character, reminiscent of Baron M\u00fcnchausen, and as delightful as Herg\u00e9's Tintin, is an all-time favourite.Diya Kar Hazra, editor, Penguin India\u2022 For further information on the British Council's India '09 at the London book fair, go to: londonbookfair.co.uk or britishcouncil.org/india", "tags": ["Books", "Culture", "India", "World news", "London book fair"], "title": "Amit Chaudhuri on the new generation of Indian writers"},{"date": "2009-05-20T23:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Compared to what is happening in Sri Lanka and Pakistan, or indeed in a wider region not noted for democratic engagement, the elections in India are both to be saluted and celebrated. Saluted because the election shows a popular commitment to democracy, which goes back long before the arrival of the British, to the village parliament or panchayat. Celebrated because it produced the right result. The pundits, who to a man, predicted a weak and fractious coalition dependent on regional leaders, were stuffed. So was the rightwing Hindu nationalist BJP, which lost a large amount of territory. Congress was returned not just with a strong mandate but a national one.This is important for the renewal of a 124-year-old party deemed to be in irreversible decline. It is even more important for the prime minister, Manmohan Singh, who invested substantial amounts of political as well as financial capital in a project during his first term, which defied conventional wisdom. The National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA) provides 100 days of unskilled labour at the minimum wage to at least one member of a rural household. As an unashamed handout, the scheme has many critics. But as a substitute for absent social welfare, NREGA was a vote-winner. If Mr Singh is right to say that India is fissiparous, with vast rural swaths untouched by 9% growth rates in the last three years, then the solution has to be giving the poorest states such as Bihar a slice, however thin, of the national cake. The massive social welfare schemes Mr Singh launched in his first term were instrumental in his return to power. It runs counter to the Anglo-Saxon model with which too much of the world fell in love, but India's economy can not be run exclusively for and by its English-speaking urban elites.If rural development emerged as the leitmotiv of the campaign, it is all the more surprising that India's new government should have yesterday named security and promoting Hindu-Muslim tolerance as its two priorities. It was, after all, the BJP which played the terror card with campaign ads showing its 81-year-old leader, LK Advani, pumping iron at the gym. And Mr Singh's resistance to calls for an attack on Pakistan after the Mumbai bombings did not emerge as an election issue. The BJP turned off voters with its strident anti-Muslim rhetoric, and with the record of Narendra Modi, Gujarat's chief minister, who stood by during the riots in his state, in which 1,000 Muslims were killed. It is important to promote Hindu-Muslim tolerance, although this is not the central issue. But the part that a strong Indian government can play in regional security should not be underestimated. India's elites dislike being linked to a dysfunctional Pakistan, preferring to be ranked with China as a booming regional power. Delhi was horrified to think it would be included in Richard Holbrooke's Af-Pak regional remit, which in the end it was not. But none of that precludes the role that India could play in starting to defuse tensions with Pakistan over Kashmir. This could, in turn, work against the logic of Pakistan's military and security elites who persist in viewing India as the existential threat. Talks started under the now discredited Gen Pervez Musharraf. It would be extraordinarily difficult to continue under the fire of suicide squads trained on, and despatched from, Pakistani soil. It may not be easy to persuade India to make concessions on Kashmir to a weak government in Islamabad. But it is impossible to think of a regional Af-Pak solution without India. And it is all too easy to imagine a US withdrawal under fire if India is ignored. India is more than a country. It is also an idea, expressed by Gandhi, Nehru and Ambedkar (the untouchable who wrote so much of India's constitution). As India grows in regional importance, the challenge will be to express that idea clearly and attractively to others.", "tags": ["Indian elections 2009", "India"], "title": "India: The world's biggest vote"},{"date": "2009-05-20T21:27:31Z", "country": "india", "content": "Compared to what is happening in Sri Lanka and Pakistan, or indeed in a wider region not noted for democratic engagement, the elections in India are both to be saluted and celebrated. Saluted because the election shows a popular commitment to democracy, which goes back long before the arrival of the British, to the village parliament or panchayat. Celebrated because it produced the right result. The pundits, who to a man, predicted a weak and fractious coalition dependent on regional leaders, were stuffed. So was the rightwing Hindu nationalist BJP, which lost a large amount of territory. Congress was returned not just with a strong mandate but a national one.This is important for the renewal of a 124-year-old party deemed to be in irreversible decline. It is even more important for the prime minister, Manmohan Singh, who invested substantial amounts of political as well as financial capital in a project during his first term, which defied conventional wisdom. The National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA) provides 100 days of unskilled labour at the minimum wage to at least one member of a rural household. As an unashamed handout, the scheme has many critics. But as a substitute for absent social welfare, NREGA was a vote-winner. If Mr Singh is right to say that India is fissiparous, with vast rural swaths untouched by 9% growth rates in the last three years, then the solution has to be giving the poorest states such as Bihar a slice, however thin, of the national cake. The massive social welfare schemes Mr Singh launched in his first term were instrumental in his return to power. It runs counter to the Anglo-Saxon model with which too much of the world fell in love, but India's economy can not be run exclusively for and by its English-speaking urban elites.If rural development emerged as the leitmotiv of the campaign, it is all the more surprising that India's new government should have yesterday named security and promoting Hindu-Muslim tolerance as its two priorities. It was, after all, the BJP which played the terror card with campaign ads showing its 81-year-old leader, LK Advani, pumping iron at the gym. And Mr Singh's resistance to calls for an attack on Pakistan after the Mumbai bombings did not emerge as an election issue. The BJP turned off voters with its strident anti-Muslim rhetoric, and with the record of Narendra Modi, Gujarat's chief minister, who stood by during the riots in his state, in which 1,000 Muslims were killed. It is important to promote Hindu-Muslim tolerance, although this is not the central issue.But the part that a strong Indian \u00adgovernment can play in regional security should not be underestimated. India's elites dislike being linked to a dysfunctional Pakistan, preferring to be ranked with China as a booming regional power. Delhi was horrified to think it would be included in Richard Holbrooke's Af-Pak regional remit, which in the end it was not. But none of that precludes the role that India could play in starting to defuse tensions with Pakistan over Kashmir. This could, in turn, work against the logic of Pakistan's military and security elites who persist in viewing India as the existential threat.Talks started under the now discredited Gen\u00a0Pervez Musharraf. It would be extraordinarily difficult to continue under the fire of suicide squads trained on, and despatched from, Pakistani soil. It may not be easy to persuade India to make concessions on Kashmir to a weak government in Islamabad. But it is impossible to think of a regional Af-Pak solution without India. And it is all too easy to imagine a US withdrawal under fire if India is ignored.India is more than a country. It is also an idea, expressed by Gandhi, Nehru and Ambedkar (the untouchable who wrote so much of India's constitution). As India grows in regional importance, the challenge will be to express that idea clearly and attractively to others.", "tags": ["Indian elections 2009", "India", "World news"], "title": "India, the world's biggest vote | Editorial"},{"date": "2009-06-24T08:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Visitors to Bangalore arrive at a modern airport and take the new highway down into the city. They see the buildings they expect in India's IT capital. Those of us who live here enjoy finding corners where we can remember Bangalore's past. There are statues of ancient chieftains, and stones by the side of the road commemorate their heroism in a forgotten form of the current language. There are colonial buildings and beautiful private gardens from the time this was a garden city, \"the pensioners' paradise\".Our neighbourhood is special because it has a small piece of Bangalore's future, and most of us are not sure what to do about it. Our estate is fairly new \u2013 we are still shown as a coconut grove on the city map \u2013 but built in traditional style. Houses are two or three storeys with stairs outside. Typically the landlord lives on the ground floor and tenants on the floors above.We buy our vegetables from a barrow, groceries from the little kiosk-like shops on every corner. The rich and well-organised order their rice and flour in large sacks, and keep them in locked storerooms.The new supermarket, very much part of modern Bangalore, does not fit our neighbourhood. It is serving puzzled people. In the morning I go for wholemeal bread and sterilised milk, which the corner shops don't stock. Morning is when the maids come to buy breakfast supplies, and they wander the aisles looking for a old-style counter where they can just ask for what they need.When I go in the evening, housewives in saris have come to make bigger purchases. They would like to bargain. They expect the manager to chat to solid customers such as themselves. But this supermarket is part of a chain, and managers have been trained to behave in a new and different way. The ladies in saris are affronted.I felt sad at their discomfort but yesterday, I saw a different sight when I went for my milk. Four young Muslim women, completely covered except for intelligent eyes, had invaded. They divided the aisles between them, doing a quick inventory, and then darting to the checkout: \"Where was this? Why didn't the market stock that? When would the next shipment arrive?\" Then they darted off to the shelves again, making the place their own. Very soon this store will be a part of our neighbourhood.", "tags": ["India holidays", "India"], "title": "India: supermarkets arrive in the garden city"},{"date": "2009-06-18T18:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "According to Kapil Komireddi in these very pages, the demise of Pakistan is \"inevitable\" because it has since foundation been a source of division and extremism. This is not a new argument. Virtually every western analyst, now happily joined by a chorus of Indian observers mysteriously bereft of regional contexts and history, believes that the Pakistan state, as opposed to merely extremists within its borders, is the single greatest threat to international peace and security.On paper, there is much to support this line of thinking. Pakistan is, after all, a highly mismanaged, corrupt developing state that has fostered religious extremism for decades while continuing to build a formidable nuclear arsenal. The prospect of the Taliban getting its hands on Pakistan's nukes is the stuff of nightmares, and Dick Cheney's dreams. It is hard to think of a more frightening scenario.With the exception of North Korea, no nuclear-armed nation is as scrutinised as Pakistan. Yet nuclear proliferation is on the rise worldwide. According to the Pentagon, Pakistan is expanding its nuclear arsenal more quickly than any other country. But India is not far behind and, along with China, Russia and the United States, is busy improving the size and quality of its weapon delivery systems.On closer reflection, the idea that the Pakistan state is inherently dangerous turns out to be a lazy mantra used by those who wish to ignore history and avoid a more complicated reality.A nation state is a rather nebulous concept at the best of time. But when a state as hurriedly created (in 1947), poorly managed and with as many centres of power as Pakistan is in question, it becomes difficult to establish diabolical intent, though not impossible.Pakistan society is as divided as it is diverse, and its elites reflect these traits. Within the army, the most powerful institution in the country, there are careerists, Islamists and khaki businessmen more consumed with wealth accumulation via shady army welfare trusts than nuclear jihad. That is not to say the army is incapable of Machiavellian strategies. For decades, it has looked to install a pro-Pakistan regime in Afghanistan.Following the war with the Soviets in Afghanistan, and generous encouragement of the US and Saudi Arabia, the army looked to radical Islamists to fulfil this role. It is also true that much of Pakistani society, including the army, has a pathological fear of India-engineered oblivion. Even now there are strong suggestions the army is supporting anti-India militancy in Kashmir.Along with commentators such as Komireddi, the US has routinely and very publicly criticised Pakistan for refusing to shift the lion's share of its troops stationed along the border with India (most of them are in Kashmir).It is true that the army has been slow to react to the Taliban insurgency within Pakistan. Only last month did it finally decide to mount decisive action against Taliban encroachment in the country, and this after years of reaching peace agreements that saw the insurgents move into as much as 11% of the country.But these sobering details do not an evil empire make.Spare a thought for the Indian army. As the security analyst Farrukh Saleem wrote recently:This year alone, India will spend close to $40bn (US) on its armed forces, up to eight times as much Pakistan. It has fought four major wars with Pakistan and, in each, matched its much smaller rival in bellicosity and provocation.Such facts do not to absolve Pakistan's army of responsibility for stifling militancy. But to consider Pakistan's role in creating the instability currently engulfing the subcontinent without considering India is like studying the Cuban missile crisis without reference to American warheads pointed towards the then Soviet Union.And therein lies the problem for so many Indians and Pakistanis. Lost in the west's division between good and bad third-world citizens, many have become blind to their country's own ills. It was in India, after all, that a pogrom arranged by fanatical Hindu groups assisted by the Gujarat government led to the murder of thousands of Muslims and Christians.Fascism has an old pedigree in India \u2013 the anti-British nationalist Subhash Chandra Bose, who fought with the Japanese against Her Majesty's forces during the second world war, marvelled at Hitler's reinvigoration of the German state. At the last Indian elections, the fascist Bajrang Dal and Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh parties openly lobbied on a Hindu supremacist platform. The reflections with the Taliban could not be clearer.Many in Pakistan still refuse to accept that there is homegrown extremism in their country. They remain convinced that Indian, Israeli or American agencies (or all three in collusion) are stoking the flames of extremism to discredit Pakistan because it is the only Muslim nation with nuclear weapons. All the while, Pakistani school children continue to be fed lies about Indian designs over the country and the virtues of Pakistan's historically inept army.For Indians, as for Pakistanis, the tired routine of pointing the finger across the border has served little other purpose than to deflect attention away from the very pressing problems at home. The sad irony is that India and Pakistan still share much the same tribulations some six decades after they were sliced apart.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Taliban", "India", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan: caught between India and the Taliban | Mustafa Qadri"},{"date": "2009-05-30T23:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Steve Herzfeld has just spent five years of his life caring for his elderly parents as they succumbed to Parkinson's and Alzheimer's, deteriorated and finally died. But the family's story is extraordinary and even uplifting. Faced with crippling medical costs, Herzfeld took his mother and father from their home in Florida to India and managed to give them such a high level of care in the oceanside city of Puducherry (formerly Pondicherry) that they appeared to regain some quality of life and even dignity.Herzfeld, 58, is a teacher of Transcendental Meditation (TM) and since 1982 has been involved in long-term research into advanced yoga techniques. Looking after your family is something that the founder of TM, the late Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, always encouraged in his disciples, so Herzfeld was able to take time out from the project, based in Fairfield, Iowa, without any problem.He began caring for his parents full-time in 2004. His mother, Frances, then 87, was virtually unable to speak coherently, he says, as Parkinson's disease gradually reduced her to \"someone who was as helpless as an infant and also, in many ways, as lovable\". His father, Ernest, then 91, despite still being able to converse in German, French, English, Italian and Swiss dialect, was also incapable of looking after himself, as he had lost his short-term memory to Alzheimer's. \"Like Mom, his disease was progressive and, towards the end, he was mentally like a two- or three-year-old child,\" Herzfeld says. Initially, Herzfeld was able to care for his parents in their Florida home. But when his mother had a fall, he realised he needed far more help than he could give them. Putting them in the cheapest acceptable home available would have cost $6,000 (around \u00a33,700) a month, and they did not have that kind of money. More than that, Herzfeld did not want to take this route: he had noticed a marked deterioration in his mother's contentment when she had to spend a few weeks in a home after the fall. Looking at all possible options, he considered Mexico and India as affordable locations. A host of reasons - including knowing India well and having friends there - made him opt for Puducherry, where the climate is similar to that of Florida and there is a supply of English-speaking care professionals. But every step of the move had to be planned in detail. The airline agreed to take Frances and Ernest only because a doctor friend flew out with them and took responsibility for them door to door. Another friend organised a house for them and set up the electricity, cable TV, air conditioning, furniture and broadband. Looking back, Herzfeld says the main thing he would have done differently would have been to hire staff before their arrival: it took him five difficult weeks to find a nurse. But once staff had been found, he could give his parents a much higher standard of care than would have been possible in the US for his father's income of $2,000 (\u00a31,200) a month. In India that paid for their rent, a team of carers - a cook, a valet for his father, nurses to be with his mother 12 hours a day, six days a week, a physiotherapist and a masseuse - and drugs (costing a fifth of US prices), and also allowed them to put some money away. Herzfeld does not claim that his parents were happy - but says they were able to get pleasure in the smaller ways that become more important when one's horizons narrow. Ernest - always a strong character, who had been a single-handed sailor to the age of 82 - still wanted to make decisions in his life. He enjoyed discussing the menu with the cook and adapted so well to a healthy Indian vegetarian diet that he was able to come off his cholesterol-lowering medication. Frances's devoted nurses spent 12 hours a day trying to make her comfortable and did things like braiding her hair. \"In India, they really like older people,\" says Herzfeld, describing how the staff seemed to regard his parents as their own family.Frances died in 2007, eight months after they arrived, while Ernest died last August. Herzfeld has returned to his previous life in the US. He does not recommend his path to everyone - there are, clearly, huge cultural differences. But he believes that India could teach the US and UK a lot about care of the elderly. \"In America, healthcare is done for profit, so that skews the whole thing and makes it very inhuman in its values,\" he says.", "tags": ["Paying for long-term care", "Money", "Older people", "India", "Society", "World news", "UK news"], "title": "In India they really like older people"},{"date": "2009-09-10T08:28:34Z", "country": "india", "content": "Five children have been killed and more than 20 injured in a stampede at a school in north-east Delhi, according to hospital officials.The stampede left at least five dead and another 24 were hurt, according to the hospital where the injured have been taken. The Press Trust of India (PTI) news agency reported that 27 pupils were injured.The stampede was triggered by rumours of an electrical current passing through the building after a short-circuit in the school, the PTI reported.Five of those injured in the incident were in critical condition in Guru Tegh Bahadur hospital, said medical superintendent OP Kalra.The stampede occurred as the pupils, aged eight to 16, arrived for an exam, Kalra told reporters.Joint commissioner of the New Delhi police, Dharmendra Kumar, told the PTI: \"There was a stampede as some of the children on the first floor were asked to come down and others were asked to go up and apparently the staircase was very narrow. Most of the children got stuck there.\"The PTI reported that the five dead pupils were girls, as were 26 of the 27 children it reported as injured.", "tags": ["India", "Schools", "World news", "Education"], "title": "India school stampede kills pupils"},{"date": "2009-09-10T08:28:34Z", "country": "india", "content": "Five children have been killed and more than 20 injured in a stampede at a school in north-east Delhi, according to hospital officials.The stampede left at least five dead and another 24 were hurt, according to the hospital where the injured have been taken. The Press Trust of India (PTI) news agency reported that 27 pupils were injured.The stampede was triggered by rumours of an electrical current passing through the building after a short-circuit in the school, the PTI reported.Five of those injured in the incident were in critical condition in Guru Tegh Bahadur hospital, said medical superintendent OP Kalra.The stampede occurred as the pupils, aged eight to 16, arrived for an exam, Kalra told reporters.Joint commissioner of the New Delhi police, Dharmendra Kumar, told the PTI: \"There was a stampede as some of the children on the first floor were asked to come down and others were asked to go up and apparently the staircase was very narrow. Most of the children got stuck there.\"The PTI reported that the five dead pupils were girls, as were 26 of the 27 children it reported as injured.", "tags": ["India", "Schools", "World news", "Education"], "title": "India school stampede kills pupils"},{"date": "2009-07-01T10:45:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The Indian gay and lesbian community may have been told not to get their hopes up about the government decriminalising homosexuality, but the fact that talks have even begun this week to discuss repealing section 377 of the Indian Penal Code, should be cause to celebrate. In India, homosexuality is illegal and carries a life sentence. But while fierce opposition has predictably come from extreme Hindu and Muslim religious parties such as the Vishwa Hindu Parishad and Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind, who claim it would bring \"sexual anarchy\" and \"spread diseases\", it can only be a matter of time until change arrives. After all, even Nepal lifted its ban in 2007.Apart from the fact that India is trying to rebrand itself as a superpower and distance itself from its neighbour Pakistan (which also bans homosexuality), the gay revolution is already under way, whether or not the judicial system likes it. Gay Pride parades took place in India's major cities last Sunday for the second successful year in a row, from which a poignant image emerged that encapsulated the years of struggle and hope for the future of India's gay community. Two elderly Indian women, one resting her head on the other's shoulders, carried banners declaring their love for each other. Doesn't sound like a big deal? In Hindi, to quote Deepa Mehta's groundbreaking lesbian film Fire, there isn't even a word for lesbian. It doesn't exist in Indian society, according to those in power \u2013 it cannot exist.Well, it does. And due to the intolerance meted out by sections of Indian society, there are an incredible number of gay men and women who have found themselves in loveless marriages, arranged or otherwise forced by whispering relatives to deny their very selves. This intolerance has passed by osmosis to the British Asian community over here. As someone who used to write for UkGay.com to highlight British Asian gay and lesbian issues and increase their visibility in the press, I think very little has changed over the past few years with regards to community attitudes. Worryingly, a 2007 survey by the BBC Asian Network showed that a whopping 44% of British Asian youngsters felt homosexuality was immoral.While this is disheartening, change in attitude on both sides might be helped along from an unlikely quarter \u2013 Bollywood. Films over recent years have in one way or another touched upon gay issues. The most relevant was Fashion, released this year, which had a sub-plot in which a gay male fashion designer married his female friend to keep his mother happy. Perhaps it would help if India's gay celebrities actually came out to champion the cause, but for now they've only got Prince Manvendra from Gujarati royalty, who came out in 2007 and appeared on the ghastly BBC show The Undercover Princes to find love in Brighton's gay bars.For now India's gay community takes its strength from its tireless activists and a flourishing clubbing scene, as does its British Asian counterpart. Whether India's government repeals section 377 or not, the fact that sections of the country are once again having this debate surely means we're getting a step closer.", "tags": ["India", "LGBT rights", "World news"], "title": "Gay days for India | Poorna Shetty"},{"date": "2009-09-10T08:28:34Z", "country": "india", "content": "Five children have been killed and more than 20 injured in a stampede at a school in north-east Delhi, according to hospital officials.The stampede left at least five dead and another 24 were hurt, according to the hospital where the injured have been taken. The Press Trust of India (PTI) news agency reported that 27 pupils were injured.The stampede was triggered by rumours of an electrical current passing through the building after a short-circuit in the school, the PTI reported.Five of those injured in the incident were in critical condition in Guru Tegh Bahadur hospital, said medical superintendent OP Kalra.The stampede occurred as the pupils, aged eight to 16, arrived for an exam, Kalra told reporters.Joint commissioner of the New Delhi police, Dharmendra Kumar, told the PTI: \"There was a stampede as some of the children on the first floor were asked to come down and others were asked to go up and apparently the staircase was very narrow. Most of the children got stuck there.\"The PTI reported that the five dead pupils were girls, as were 26 of the 27 children it reported as injured.", "tags": ["India", "Schools", "World news", "Education"], "title": "India school stampede kills pupils"},{"date": "2009-07-01T10:45:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The Indian gay and lesbian community may have been told not to get their hopes up about the government decriminalising homosexuality, but the fact that talks have even begun this week to discuss repealing section 377 of the Indian Penal Code, should be cause to celebrate. In India, homosexuality is illegal and carries a life sentence. But while fierce opposition has predictably come from extreme Hindu and Muslim religious parties such as the Vishwa Hindu Parishad and Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind, who claim it would bring \"sexual anarchy\" and \"spread diseases\", it can only be a matter of time until change arrives. After all, even Nepal lifted its ban in 2007.Apart from the fact that India is trying to rebrand itself as a superpower and distance itself from its neighbour Pakistan (which also bans homosexuality), the gay revolution is already under way, whether or not the judicial system likes it. Gay Pride parades took place in India's major cities last Sunday for the second successful year in a row, from which a poignant image emerged that encapsulated the years of struggle and hope for the future of India's gay community. Two elderly Indian women, one resting her head on the other's shoulders, carried banners declaring their love for each other. Doesn't sound like a big deal? In Hindi, to quote Deepa Mehta's groundbreaking lesbian film Fire, there isn't even a word for lesbian. It doesn't exist in Indian society, according to those in power \u2013 it cannot exist.Well, it does. And due to the intolerance meted out by sections of Indian society, there are an incredible number of gay men and women who have found themselves in loveless marriages, arranged or otherwise forced by whispering relatives to deny their very selves. This intolerance has passed by osmosis to the British Asian community over here. As someone who used to write for UkGay.com to highlight British Asian gay and lesbian issues and increase their visibility in the press, I think very little has changed over the past few years with regards to community attitudes. Worryingly, a 2007 survey by the BBC Asian Network showed that a whopping 44% of British Asian youngsters felt homosexuality was immoral.While this is disheartening, change in attitude on both sides might be helped along from an unlikely quarter \u2013 Bollywood. Films over recent years have in one way or another touched upon gay issues. The most relevant was Fashion, released this year, which had a sub-plot in which a gay male fashion designer married his female friend to keep his mother happy. Perhaps it would help if India's gay celebrities actually came out to champion the cause, but for now they've only got Prince Manvendra from Gujarati royalty, who came out in 2007 and appeared on the ghastly BBC show The Undercover Princes to find love in Brighton's gay bars.For now India's gay community takes its strength from its tireless activists and a flourishing clubbing scene, as does its British Asian counterpart. Whether India's government repeals section 377 or not, the fact that sections of the country are once again having this debate surely means we're getting a step closer.", "tags": ["India", "LGBT rights", "World news"], "title": "Gay days for India | Poorna Shetty"},{"date": "2009-07-28T15:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Last weekend, it was reported that India had denied a visa to Rebiya Kadeer, the ostensible leader in exile of China's minority Uighur community, who China accuses of masterminding recent unrest in its western province of Xinjiang. Many Indian strategists applauded the decision \u2013 only for the Uighur Human Rights Project to later deny the reports. New Delhi, the strategists argued, had little to gain from riling Beijing and even less to gain from adding to Kadeer's travel itinerary, a global junket aimed at building sympathy for the plight of the Uighurs. The Turkic, predominantly Muslim Uighurs made headlines this summer after riots and state repression shook Xinjiang. India's interests, some say, would be best served by staying out of the mess altogether.After all, a visit from Kadeer would, it seems, only cause grief for her would-be hosts. Her impending attendance at the Melbourne International Film Festival in Australia prompted Chinese directors to withdraw their films and Chinese hackers to attack the festival's website. In a furious diplomatic spat, Beijing slammed Japan's decision to grant her a visa. And Chinese officials threatened Ankara over the Turkish prime minister's promise to allow Kadeer into Turkey.This certainly isn't the first (nor will it be the last) time a state has put pressure on other countries to curtail the movement of controversial individuals. But what we should find distressing is the extent to which countries have allowed their own affairs to be dictated by China's propaganda campaign. Kadeer is supported by American money, but she is not a \"terrorist\" (as China insists on dubbing her and her allies), nor is she capable of orchestrating the unrest in Xinjiang (as China claims she did). Instead, China has turned this woman \u2013 who I had the pleasure of meeting briefly when she visited openDemocracy's offices a few years ago \u2013 into a straw-man, directing domestic outrage against her while distracting attention from the real anger, real frustration and real grievances of the Uighurs.Indians should feel disappointed by the idea that their country would placate China's officials and legions of \"netizens\". In so many ways, India is strikingly different from its fellow Asian giant. India is a democracy, bubbling with debate and dissent. It is a truly plural country, uniting dozens of languages, thousands of dialects, numerous religions and ethnicities. It is no stranger to ethnic violence and secessionism, but it has managed to accommodate most of these outbreaks through the democratic process and under the wide roof of Indian identity. No Indian leader could now speak as Chinese president Hu Jintao did yesterday when, in archaic terms, he called for the \"revival of the great Chinese race\".But like China, India has settled upon a more functional vision of foreign policy in the 21st century. In the wake of the cold war and the stumbles of American power, both New Delhi and Beijing believe in building a \"multipolar world order\", in which many more countries can be stakeholders in an international system defined by negotiation and respect of national sovereignty. Such a system may be more global and representative, but it provides little scope for any kind of judgment and policy beyond the strategic.Fifty years ago, India welcomed the Dalai Lama and the Tibetan leadership as they fled the guns and tanks of the Chinese army. Up to the 1990s, India supported Aung San Suu Kyi's democratic movement in Chinese-backed Burma, when western governments had little interest in her struggle (let's not forget that the west also had \u2013 and continues to have \u2013 a great predilection for expedient, morally blind foreign policy). Indian policymakers remember that these decisions had real strategic consequences, including a disastrous war with China in 1962 and the loss of influence on its eastern border. For India to deny Kadeer a visa would stem from a more cautious political calculus. But would also suggests that India accepts the rules of Chinese geopolitics: power \u2013 never ideals \u2013 is the ultimate arbiter of action and compromise.", "tags": ["India", "China", "Rebiya Kadeer", "Human rights", "Race issues", "World news", "Law", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "India, don't kowtow to China | Kanishk Tharoor"},{"date": "2009-09-10T08:28:34Z", "country": "india", "content": "Five children have been killed and more than 20 injured in a stampede at a school in north-east Delhi, according to hospital officials.The stampede left at least five dead and another 24 were hurt, according to the hospital where the injured have been taken. The Press Trust of India (PTI) news agency reported that 27 pupils were injured.The stampede was triggered by rumours of an electrical current passing through the building after a short-circuit in the school, the PTI reported.Five of those injured in the incident were in critical condition in Guru Tegh Bahadur hospital, said medical superintendent OP Kalra.The stampede occurred as the pupils, aged eight to 16, arrived for an exam, Kalra told reporters.Joint commissioner of the New Delhi police, Dharmendra Kumar, told the PTI: \"There was a stampede as some of the children on the first floor were asked to come down and others were asked to go up and apparently the staircase was very narrow. Most of the children got stuck there.\"The PTI reported that the five dead pupils were girls, as were 26 of the 27 children it reported as injured.", "tags": ["India", "Schools", "World news", "Education"], "title": "India school stampede kills pupils"},{"date": "2009-07-01T10:45:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The Indian gay and lesbian community may have been told not to get their hopes up about the government decriminalising homosexuality, but the fact that talks have even begun this week to discuss repealing section 377 of the Indian Penal Code, should be cause to celebrate. In India, homosexuality is illegal and carries a life sentence. But while fierce opposition has predictably come from extreme Hindu and Muslim religious parties such as the Vishwa Hindu Parishad and Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind, who claim it would bring \"sexual anarchy\" and \"spread diseases\", it can only be a matter of time until change arrives. After all, even Nepal lifted its ban in 2007.Apart from the fact that India is trying to rebrand itself as a superpower and distance itself from its neighbour Pakistan (which also bans homosexuality), the gay revolution is already under way, whether or not the judicial system likes it. Gay Pride parades took place in India's major cities last Sunday for the second successful year in a row, from which a poignant image emerged that encapsulated the years of struggle and hope for the future of India's gay community. Two elderly Indian women, one resting her head on the other's shoulders, carried banners declaring their love for each other. Doesn't sound like a big deal? In Hindi, to quote Deepa Mehta's groundbreaking lesbian film Fire, there isn't even a word for lesbian. It doesn't exist in Indian society, according to those in power \u2013 it cannot exist.Well, it does. And due to the intolerance meted out by sections of Indian society, there are an incredible number of gay men and women who have found themselves in loveless marriages, arranged or otherwise forced by whispering relatives to deny their very selves. This intolerance has passed by osmosis to the British Asian community over here. As someone who used to write for UkGay.com to highlight British Asian gay and lesbian issues and increase their visibility in the press, I think very little has changed over the past few years with regards to community attitudes. Worryingly, a 2007 survey by the BBC Asian Network showed that a whopping 44% of British Asian youngsters felt homosexuality was immoral.While this is disheartening, change in attitude on both sides might be helped along from an unlikely quarter \u2013 Bollywood. Films over recent years have in one way or another touched upon gay issues. The most relevant was Fashion, released this year, which had a sub-plot in which a gay male fashion designer married his female friend to keep his mother happy. Perhaps it would help if India's gay celebrities actually came out to champion the cause, but for now they've only got Prince Manvendra from Gujarati royalty, who came out in 2007 and appeared on the ghastly BBC show The Undercover Princes to find love in Brighton's gay bars.For now India's gay community takes its strength from its tireless activists and a flourishing clubbing scene, as does its British Asian counterpart. Whether India's government repeals section 377 or not, the fact that sections of the country are once again having this debate surely means we're getting a step closer.", "tags": ["India", "LGBT rights", "World news"], "title": "Gay days for India | Poorna Shetty"},{"date": "2009-07-28T15:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Last weekend, it was reported that India had denied a visa to Rebiya Kadeer, the ostensible leader in exile of China's minority Uighur community, who China accuses of masterminding recent unrest in its western province of Xinjiang. Many Indian strategists applauded the decision \u2013 only for the Uighur Human Rights Project to later deny the reports. New Delhi, the strategists argued, had little to gain from riling Beijing and even less to gain from adding to Kadeer's travel itinerary, a global junket aimed at building sympathy for the plight of the Uighurs. The Turkic, predominantly Muslim Uighurs made headlines this summer after riots and state repression shook Xinjiang. India's interests, some say, would be best served by staying out of the mess altogether.After all, a visit from Kadeer would, it seems, only cause grief for her would-be hosts. Her impending attendance at the Melbourne International Film Festival in Australia prompted Chinese directors to withdraw their films and Chinese hackers to attack the festival's website. In a furious diplomatic spat, Beijing slammed Japan's decision to grant her a visa. And Chinese officials threatened Ankara over the Turkish prime minister's promise to allow Kadeer into Turkey.This certainly isn't the first (nor will it be the last) time a state has put pressure on other countries to curtail the movement of controversial individuals. But what we should find distressing is the extent to which countries have allowed their own affairs to be dictated by China's propaganda campaign. Kadeer is supported by American money, but she is not a \"terrorist\" (as China insists on dubbing her and her allies), nor is she capable of orchestrating the unrest in Xinjiang (as China claims she did). Instead, China has turned this woman \u2013 who I had the pleasure of meeting briefly when she visited openDemocracy's offices a few years ago \u2013 into a straw-man, directing domestic outrage against her while distracting attention from the real anger, real frustration and real grievances of the Uighurs.Indians should feel disappointed by the idea that their country would placate China's officials and legions of \"netizens\". In so many ways, India is strikingly different from its fellow Asian giant. India is a democracy, bubbling with debate and dissent. It is a truly plural country, uniting dozens of languages, thousands of dialects, numerous religions and ethnicities. It is no stranger to ethnic violence and secessionism, but it has managed to accommodate most of these outbreaks through the democratic process and under the wide roof of Indian identity. No Indian leader could now speak as Chinese president Hu Jintao did yesterday when, in archaic terms, he called for the \"revival of the great Chinese race\".But like China, India has settled upon a more functional vision of foreign policy in the 21st century. In the wake of the cold war and the stumbles of American power, both New Delhi and Beijing believe in building a \"multipolar world order\", in which many more countries can be stakeholders in an international system defined by negotiation and respect of national sovereignty. Such a system may be more global and representative, but it provides little scope for any kind of judgment and policy beyond the strategic.Fifty years ago, India welcomed the Dalai Lama and the Tibetan leadership as they fled the guns and tanks of the Chinese army. Up to the 1990s, India supported Aung San Suu Kyi's democratic movement in Chinese-backed Burma, when western governments had little interest in her struggle (let's not forget that the west also had \u2013 and continues to have \u2013 a great predilection for expedient, morally blind foreign policy). Indian policymakers remember that these decisions had real strategic consequences, including a disastrous war with China in 1962 and the loss of influence on its eastern border. For India to deny Kadeer a visa would stem from a more cautious political calculus. But would also suggests that India accepts the rules of Chinese geopolitics: power \u2013 never ideals \u2013 is the ultimate arbiter of action and compromise.", "tags": ["India", "China", "Rebiya Kadeer", "Human rights", "Race issues", "World news", "Law", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "India, don't kowtow to China | Kanishk Tharoor"},{"date": "2009-09-26T23:07:26Z", "country": "india", "content": "When travelling in a country as richly alien as India, it is tempting and almost forgivable to reach for the familiar. The unwary retreat to large, Western-style hotels where they are safe but dissatisfied (and also \u2013 misguidedly \u2013 convinced they are safe from water-borne diseases.)Yet the solutions are there. All over India people have opened their homes or created small hotels where you feel safely part of the country. But the word \"hotel'' does little justice to this fabulous mix. There are, in our latest guide alone, treehouses, villas, camps, palaces, cottages, bungalows and forts \u2013 up mountains and rivers, in cities and in the countryside. The variety is almost bewildering. Adopt any role you wish: collector of human experience, idler, yoga disciple, massagee, meditator, adventurer, aimless wanderer, self-improver, design buff \u2013 India can absorb all your fantasies and offer a thousand more.Above all, India is utterly itself. It is so diverse that the footprints of other cultures quickly fade or take on an Indian hue. That is a considerable strength, and you, too, if you step off the path to meet the people to whom these places belong, will be changed. Each place gives you India on its own plate \u2013 a treat for every type of traveller.Before you march headlong into the full Indian experience, unwind in this city oasis with an acre of garden. The Manor, designed by a Japanese architect, started life in the 1950s as a jungle-fringed hotel; now it finds itself in the city's smartest suburb. With far more character than many other luxury addresses, it exudes a minimalism that is never austere: lovely wall hangings in the corridors, stunning mosaic floors. The delicious food is Indian or fusion and the tranquil garden is a sweet spot for a fresh lime soda. Try a morning yoga or a rejuvenating massage \u2013 a 15-minute taster is included in the price.\u2022 themanordelhi.com; 15 double rooms from Rs7,500 (\u00a395). All prices in this article are for a double or twin room per night Step into the air-conditioned cool marble reception \u2013 delicious! Immediately you are made to feel at home, in among the big sandstone Jaisalmer fresco and the chairs crafted from Rajasthani ox carts. Owners Rajat and Sanjana can organise anything you come up with. Every peaceful bedroom is special in its own way \u2013 a gold-plated elephant head-dress or a Bollywood poster, a small balcony, a swish wet room. There's a spa and a rooftop restaurant with views east over suburbs and trees. A five-course menu flows from the kitchen, with an exceptional chef and a brand new tandoor.\u2022shantihome.com; 17 doubles; from \u00a375The perfect soft landing into India. Owners Martin and Annie have a profound knowledge of India and give the warmest welcome you could wish for \u2013 cool lime sodas on arrival, delicious food and conversation later. Their new bougainvillea-strewn, Lutyens-style farmhouse is an hour outside the craziness of Delhi. Each elegant bedroom opens onto a veranda running around a courtyard. In summer you can sleep on the charpois (rope-strung beds) in the wonderful gardens. Martin will walk you round his farmstead, where organic vegetables grow; they keep pigs and buffalos, too.\u2022 tiklibottom.com; two doubles, two twins; full-board from \u00a3150 The choice of setting for \"Sacred Five Trees\" is inspired and the 40 metre-long covered veranda is a place to sit and dream amid the sweet scents of jasmine and frangipani. Unfussy decorative touches \u2013 copper pots, bowls of floating flowers, cane lampshades \u2013 soothe, as do the views of the river, the buffalos grazing and the distant forest. Belgian by blood, Goa-born and convent-educated in Surrey and Mumbai, Lulu's approach to guests is wise and warm; nothing is too much trouble. Only traditional materials have been used: laterite stone, high wooden ceilings and tiled roofs. Bedrooms, each with a private balcony, wrap around an inner courtyard.\u2022 islaingoa.com; four doubles; full-board from \u00a3130Among the coconuts on the outskirts of Loutolim, one of Goa's prettiest villages, a Jodhpur-blue exterior and fairy lights cascading from the terracotta roof are the first signs that you're in for something different. Norman and Carole's 700-year-old house is a wonderland of colour, outstanding local and international art (much of it Cuban), richly embroidered Rajasthani upholstery and antiques. Complementary interests \u2013 for Norman, art and a snooker table; for Carole, her exceptional cooking and jewellery (for sale) \u2013 come together with a shared passion for their garden. Four serenely well-designed bedrooms the colour of jewels face out on to the pool.\u2022 casasusegadgoa.com; four doubles; from \u00a365Off the beaten track, up in north Goa, are two stylish villas with views that soar downriver. On arrival you are ushered to the terrace with a sundowner: lap up the luxuriant scene. The views from the infinity pool are more breathtaking still. Later, meander downhill for a barbecue under the stars. The rooms each have a sit-out space overseeing the river or the islands. There are simple bright linens and rugs on dark stone floors, and walk-in showers. Look forward to long days lazing by two pools, serenaded by wildlife and spoiled by staff. Join in yoga on the terrace or plan a trip to the beaches. Leave by speedboat \u2013 James Bond-style. Bliss.\u2022 casacolvale.com; 11 doubles; from \u00a390 If you have pottered up the mountainside in that splendid little train, filled with expectations of Shimla, you may have been underwhelmed by the town. Its glorious past and its parochial present are at odds. But Chapslee is a treat, undisturbed by mobiles, internet or TV. One of the oldest houses in town (1835), it was the summer residence of the late Raja Charanjit Singh of Kapurthala; the present owner is his grandson. The walls are festooned with swords and sabres, Raj-era paintings and embroideries. Bedrooms are immensely comfortable and the suite is spoilingly sumptuous. The sitting room is in hunting-lodge style; the garden is smothered in nasturtiums. It's more English than England, a flawless snapshot of another age.\u2022 chapslee.com; four doubles, one suite; half-board from \u00a3190Pull through gates, enter landscaped grounds, and be welcomed with a marigold garland by serene, white-robed staff. As you fill in a questionnaire about your mental and physical health, realisation dawns that this is no regular luxury hotel. Your stay is planned in terms of diet and treatments: Ayurvedic massage and exquisite food, meditation and a rejuvenating spa, pukka astanga and hatha yoga twice a day and, if you like, afternoons spent in the organic vegetable garden. Of course, you can come just to soak up the atmosphere and sunbathe by the pool.\u2022 shreyasretreat.com; three cottage suites, eight tents, one cottage for five; full-board \u00a3250. Yoga and sound meditation classes includedThere are two separate bungalows, one housing a single suite, the other two double rooms. Huge sliding screens give onto verandas with bamboo blinds and views across the shimmering lake. This must be one of the most heavenly spots in all Kerala. The thatched air-conditioned suite has a dining room, living room and two bathrooms \u2013 a super-cool retreat. The lovely pool is shared. Interiors are colourfully minimalist, typical of the ethos of Malabar House, a small chain of boutique properties, which renovates old Keralan buildings with sympathy.\u2022 malabarhouse.com; one suite for two from \u00a3230; cottage for two from \u00a3140 Laze by the pool, sip cocktails under the mango tree. This 300-year-old colonial building was the office of an English tea broker. Interiors are studded with bold local paintings, entertaining artefacts and simple antiques. The bedrooms have high ceilings, deep comfortable beds and big windows for cool breezes. Chic bathrooms in the cottages have open-to-the-sky showers. Windows overlook the ingenious Chinese fishing nets (ancient but still in use) or the courtyard garden with its fountain and pond full of lilies. Dinners of caught-that-day fish are a pleasure, but it is the staff that are the biggest delight.\u2022 oldharbourhotel.com; 10 doubles, three cottage suites; from \u00a395 A few years ago Christel and Jan swapped their busy hotel in Spa, Belgium, for this cluster of cottages on a palm-fringed beach. The bedrooms are large and lovely, airy and light; walls are washed in ochre; silk bedcovers are piled high with cushions in rich reds and oranges. The chef will whip up tasty local dishes for you any time. Cross the sandy garden, duck under the thatched porch and you're on the beach, which belongs to you and the fishermen alone. It's almost a relief to discover when you arrive that there's not a lot to do.\u2022 abeachsymphony.com; four cottages for two; from \u00a395. Child bed available Ahilya, perched high above the Narmada river where there's always a breeze, is an enchanting hotel. The building's pale stone floors, dark timbers and ancient shuttered doors have been exquisitely restored. Richard Holkar is the driving force behind Ahilya. His family were the kings of Indore, though the family is more westernised today. Thanks to the Holkar Trust, the hand weaving for which Maheshwar was once famous is again thriving \u2013 you may visit the handloom centre nearby. Tranquil bedrooms have finely woven fabrics and views. Have a buffet breakfast on the ramparts and dine on delectable home-grown food on the terrace.\u2022 ahilyafort.com; nine doubles, two twins, a single, two tents; full-board \u00a3140 Reception is a treehouse, with an open-air lounge/dining room/bar and a look-out with live footage of the camp's watering hole. Home, too, is five treehouses scattered across the grounds; each is authentic, romantic, spectacular and spacious. There are big open showers, tribal paintings, vibrant throws and doors that fold back to a big balcony with a sensational view. You are pretty much left to your own devices but open jeeps and experienced guides will ferry you into the reserve from 7.30am. Bandhavgarh, compact and teeming with wildlife, has the densest tiger population in India.\u2022 treehousehideaway.com; five treehouses for two; from \u00a3165 full-board Thirteen tents look out across a 100-year-old reservoir, home to more than 250 species of migratory birds, while antelope graze on the bank. Smartly contained within white canvas, bedrooms are furnished in elegant Rajput style, while bathrooms feature marble and slate. Toast and tea are delivered to your tent before breakfast, pillows are of softest down. All is exemplary, from lessons on village lore to surely the most delicious food in the region. Head to bed by torchlight \u2013 to discover hot water bottles tucked between the sheets.\u2022 chhatrasagar.com; 13 tents; from \u00a3230 full-board, with tax, jeep and birdwatching tour includedShahpura Bagh would look very different if ancestor Rajadhiraj Nahar Singh had not mortgaged the jewels to build earth dams and bring water to his people. There would be no pastures, mustard crops or evergreens. At the top of the house, bedrooms are served by light and cool walls and bathrooms with old claw-foot tubs. Eat together in the beautiful dining room. The hospitable family will entertain you with hilarious anecdotes of Rajasthan's most \"colourful characters\".\u2022 shahpurabagh.com; four doubles, six suites; from \u00a365The women of the dusty village still cook over open fires, as they did when brave Darbar Lal Singh ruled 300 years ago. Anirudh Rathore's restoration recalls the halcyon days of royal Rajasthan. Seated beneath the fabulous ceiling of the dining room, guarded by portraits of five generations, you can appreciate how this was the court where warriors met over matters of state. Disturbed only by distant prayer, you can float in the exquisite infinity pool. Why not play at being the movie star when, couched in velvet on a bullock cart, you progress through the village (not for the shy), to the great curiosity of the locals? Few travellers make it this far: a rare treat.\u2022  fortbarli.com ; six doubles, two suites; from \u00a375 Enjoy acres of wheat fields, twittering birds, gardens and hammocks swinging from shady fruit trees. The old house itself is elegantly light and cooled by the breeze. Old, rescued artefacts account for much of the furniture. A well-stocked gym and library will stretch different muscle groups before a candlelit dinner in the company of your warm, cultured hosts. Bhanwar and his wife are deeply eco-conscious, encouraging guests to share a car, employing and buying locally, composting. Even the pool, set among palms, is an irrigation resource.\u2022 savista.com; 13 doubles, three suites; from \u00a380English gardens, a terracotta bridge, 80s kitsch \u2013 yet this is still the real India, living with a family in what Mr and Mrs Singh love to call \"a cosy home from home\". It's right in the heart of romantic Udaipur and, from the terrific rooftop terrace, you can visually plan your day's itinerary, starting at the famous Fateh Sagar Lake. The furniture in the bedrooms takes you on a colour-coded journey, beginning with 200-year-old Rajasthan and tumbling into the present.\u2022  lakeviewvilla.in  ; four doubles, one suite; from \u00a323 A retired British doctor, a traveller and a talker with comedic flair, Chris has poured energy into creating his utopia; his staff wear the broadest smiles and the whole place sweeps you into a warm embrace. The house stands at the foot of a steep hill, huddled in a horseshoe of scrub hills with views from the pretty garden across the lake to the Western Ghats. Bedrooms are a picture of taste and restraint \u2013 tiled floors, white linen, solar-powered showers, fresh flowers on bedspreads. Chris is passionate about the environment and social responsibility, guided trips to the village support the local community.\u2022 cardamomhouse.com; six doubles, one suite; from \u00a340Husna-Tara has created a dream \u2013 effortlessly stylish and wickedly indulgent. In 1860, a Scottish tea company established the estate, enticed by the luxuriant hillsides and cool climes; today they supply Harrods. As perfect as the teas are the sundowners on the terrace and the immaculate lawns \u2013 and the bedroom suites are some of the loveliest in the world. Gaze from a wicker chair on inspirational views, dine by moonlight on exquisite foods. Camp out at a \"lodge\" near the river where sumptuous picnics are presented on linen. Tricky to reach but worth every rut and bounce.\u2022 glenburnteaestate.com; eight suites; from \u00a3230 full-board with activities, transfers and laundry included\u2022 Observer readers can buy a copy of Alastair Sawday's Special Places to Stay, India & Sri Lanka, which is published on Thursday, for \u00a37.19 (rrp \u00a311.99) plus \u00a32.99p&p. Visit sawdays.co.uk/bookshop and use the code INDIAOBSERVER or phone 01275 395431. Offer ends 31 October 2009", "tags": ["India holidays", "Hotels", "Delhi holidays", "Wildlife holidays", "Food and drink", "Travel", "Spa breaks"], "title": "20 fabulous boutique hotels in India"},{"date": "2009-09-10T08:28:34Z", "country": "india", "content": "Five children have been killed and more than 20 injured in a stampede at a school in north-east Delhi, according to hospital officials.The stampede left at least five dead and another 24 were hurt, according to the hospital where the injured have been taken. The Press Trust of India (PTI) news agency reported that 27 pupils were injured.The stampede was triggered by rumours of an electrical current passing through the building after a short-circuit in the school, the PTI reported.Five of those injured in the incident were in critical condition in Guru Tegh Bahadur hospital, said medical superintendent OP Kalra.The stampede occurred as the pupils, aged eight to 16, arrived for an exam, Kalra told reporters.Joint commissioner of the New Delhi police, Dharmendra Kumar, told the PTI: \"There was a stampede as some of the children on the first floor were asked to come down and others were asked to go up and apparently the staircase was very narrow. Most of the children got stuck there.\"The PTI reported that the five dead pupils were girls, as were 26 of the 27 children it reported as injured.", "tags": ["India", "Schools", "World news", "Education"], "title": "India school stampede kills pupils"},{"date": "2009-07-01T10:45:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The Indian gay and lesbian community may have been told not to get their hopes up about the government decriminalising homosexuality, but the fact that talks have even begun this week to discuss repealing section 377 of the Indian Penal Code, should be cause to celebrate. In India, homosexuality is illegal and carries a life sentence. But while fierce opposition has predictably come from extreme Hindu and Muslim religious parties such as the Vishwa Hindu Parishad and Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind, who claim it would bring \"sexual anarchy\" and \"spread diseases\", it can only be a matter of time until change arrives. After all, even Nepal lifted its ban in 2007.Apart from the fact that India is trying to rebrand itself as a superpower and distance itself from its neighbour Pakistan (which also bans homosexuality), the gay revolution is already under way, whether or not the judicial system likes it. Gay Pride parades took place in India's major cities last Sunday for the second successful year in a row, from which a poignant image emerged that encapsulated the years of struggle and hope for the future of India's gay community. Two elderly Indian women, one resting her head on the other's shoulders, carried banners declaring their love for each other. Doesn't sound like a big deal? In Hindi, to quote Deepa Mehta's groundbreaking lesbian film Fire, there isn't even a word for lesbian. It doesn't exist in Indian society, according to those in power \u2013 it cannot exist.Well, it does. And due to the intolerance meted out by sections of Indian society, there are an incredible number of gay men and women who have found themselves in loveless marriages, arranged or otherwise forced by whispering relatives to deny their very selves. This intolerance has passed by osmosis to the British Asian community over here. As someone who used to write for UkGay.com to highlight British Asian gay and lesbian issues and increase their visibility in the press, I think very little has changed over the past few years with regards to community attitudes. Worryingly, a 2007 survey by the BBC Asian Network showed that a whopping 44% of British Asian youngsters felt homosexuality was immoral.While this is disheartening, change in attitude on both sides might be helped along from an unlikely quarter \u2013 Bollywood. Films over recent years have in one way or another touched upon gay issues. The most relevant was Fashion, released this year, which had a sub-plot in which a gay male fashion designer married his female friend to keep his mother happy. Perhaps it would help if India's gay celebrities actually came out to champion the cause, but for now they've only got Prince Manvendra from Gujarati royalty, who came out in 2007 and appeared on the ghastly BBC show The Undercover Princes to find love in Brighton's gay bars.For now India's gay community takes its strength from its tireless activists and a flourishing clubbing scene, as does its British Asian counterpart. Whether India's government repeals section 377 or not, the fact that sections of the country are once again having this debate surely means we're getting a step closer.", "tags": ["India", "LGBT rights", "World news"], "title": "Gay days for India | Poorna Shetty"},{"date": "2009-07-28T15:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Last weekend, it was reported that India had denied a visa to Rebiya Kadeer, the ostensible leader in exile of China's minority Uighur community, who China accuses of masterminding recent unrest in its western province of Xinjiang. Many Indian strategists applauded the decision \u2013 only for the Uighur Human Rights Project to later deny the reports. New Delhi, the strategists argued, had little to gain from riling Beijing and even less to gain from adding to Kadeer's travel itinerary, a global junket aimed at building sympathy for the plight of the Uighurs. The Turkic, predominantly Muslim Uighurs made headlines this summer after riots and state repression shook Xinjiang. India's interests, some say, would be best served by staying out of the mess altogether.After all, a visit from Kadeer would, it seems, only cause grief for her would-be hosts. Her impending attendance at the Melbourne International Film Festival in Australia prompted Chinese directors to withdraw their films and Chinese hackers to attack the festival's website. In a furious diplomatic spat, Beijing slammed Japan's decision to grant her a visa. And Chinese officials threatened Ankara over the Turkish prime minister's promise to allow Kadeer into Turkey.This certainly isn't the first (nor will it be the last) time a state has put pressure on other countries to curtail the movement of controversial individuals. But what we should find distressing is the extent to which countries have allowed their own affairs to be dictated by China's propaganda campaign. Kadeer is supported by American money, but she is not a \"terrorist\" (as China insists on dubbing her and her allies), nor is she capable of orchestrating the unrest in Xinjiang (as China claims she did). Instead, China has turned this woman \u2013 who I had the pleasure of meeting briefly when she visited openDemocracy's offices a few years ago \u2013 into a straw-man, directing domestic outrage against her while distracting attention from the real anger, real frustration and real grievances of the Uighurs.Indians should feel disappointed by the idea that their country would placate China's officials and legions of \"netizens\". In so many ways, India is strikingly different from its fellow Asian giant. India is a democracy, bubbling with debate and dissent. It is a truly plural country, uniting dozens of languages, thousands of dialects, numerous religions and ethnicities. It is no stranger to ethnic violence and secessionism, but it has managed to accommodate most of these outbreaks through the democratic process and under the wide roof of Indian identity. No Indian leader could now speak as Chinese president Hu Jintao did yesterday when, in archaic terms, he called for the \"revival of the great Chinese race\".But like China, India has settled upon a more functional vision of foreign policy in the 21st century. In the wake of the cold war and the stumbles of American power, both New Delhi and Beijing believe in building a \"multipolar world order\", in which many more countries can be stakeholders in an international system defined by negotiation and respect of national sovereignty. Such a system may be more global and representative, but it provides little scope for any kind of judgment and policy beyond the strategic.Fifty years ago, India welcomed the Dalai Lama and the Tibetan leadership as they fled the guns and tanks of the Chinese army. Up to the 1990s, India supported Aung San Suu Kyi's democratic movement in Chinese-backed Burma, when western governments had little interest in her struggle (let's not forget that the west also had \u2013 and continues to have \u2013 a great predilection for expedient, morally blind foreign policy). Indian policymakers remember that these decisions had real strategic consequences, including a disastrous war with China in 1962 and the loss of influence on its eastern border. For India to deny Kadeer a visa would stem from a more cautious political calculus. But would also suggests that India accepts the rules of Chinese geopolitics: power \u2013 never ideals \u2013 is the ultimate arbiter of action and compromise.", "tags": ["India", "China", "Rebiya Kadeer", "Human rights", "Race issues", "World news", "Law", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "India, don't kowtow to China | Kanishk Tharoor"},{"date": "2009-09-26T23:07:26Z", "country": "india", "content": "When travelling in a country as richly alien as India, it is tempting and almost forgivable to reach for the familiar. The unwary retreat to large, Western-style hotels where they are safe but dissatisfied (and also \u2013 misguidedly \u2013 convinced they are safe from water-borne diseases.)Yet the solutions are there. All over India people have opened their homes or created small hotels where you feel safely part of the country. But the word \"hotel'' does little justice to this fabulous mix. There are, in our latest guide alone, treehouses, villas, camps, palaces, cottages, bungalows and forts \u2013 up mountains and rivers, in cities and in the countryside. The variety is almost bewildering. Adopt any role you wish: collector of human experience, idler, yoga disciple, massagee, meditator, adventurer, aimless wanderer, self-improver, design buff \u2013 India can absorb all your fantasies and offer a thousand more.Above all, India is utterly itself. It is so diverse that the footprints of other cultures quickly fade or take on an Indian hue. That is a considerable strength, and you, too, if you step off the path to meet the people to whom these places belong, will be changed. Each place gives you India on its own plate \u2013 a treat for every type of traveller.Before you march headlong into the full Indian experience, unwind in this city oasis with an acre of garden. The Manor, designed by a Japanese architect, started life in the 1950s as a jungle-fringed hotel; now it finds itself in the city's smartest suburb. With far more character than many other luxury addresses, it exudes a minimalism that is never austere: lovely wall hangings in the corridors, stunning mosaic floors. The delicious food is Indian or fusion and the tranquil garden is a sweet spot for a fresh lime soda. Try a morning yoga or a rejuvenating massage \u2013 a 15-minute taster is included in the price.\u2022 themanordelhi.com; 15 double rooms from Rs7,500 (\u00a395). All prices in this article are for a double or twin room per night Step into the air-conditioned cool marble reception \u2013 delicious! Immediately you are made to feel at home, in among the big sandstone Jaisalmer fresco and the chairs crafted from Rajasthani ox carts. Owners Rajat and Sanjana can organise anything you come up with. Every peaceful bedroom is special in its own way \u2013 a gold-plated elephant head-dress or a Bollywood poster, a small balcony, a swish wet room. There's a spa and a rooftop restaurant with views east over suburbs and trees. A five-course menu flows from the kitchen, with an exceptional chef and a brand new tandoor.\u2022shantihome.com; 17 doubles; from \u00a375The perfect soft landing into India. Owners Martin and Annie have a profound knowledge of India and give the warmest welcome you could wish for \u2013 cool lime sodas on arrival, delicious food and conversation later. Their new bougainvillea-strewn, Lutyens-style farmhouse is an hour outside the craziness of Delhi. Each elegant bedroom opens onto a veranda running around a courtyard. In summer you can sleep on the charpois (rope-strung beds) in the wonderful gardens. Martin will walk you round his farmstead, where organic vegetables grow; they keep pigs and buffalos, too.\u2022 tiklibottom.com; two doubles, two twins; full-board from \u00a3150 The choice of setting for \"Sacred Five Trees\" is inspired and the 40 metre-long covered veranda is a place to sit and dream amid the sweet scents of jasmine and frangipani. Unfussy decorative touches \u2013 copper pots, bowls of floating flowers, cane lampshades \u2013 soothe, as do the views of the river, the buffalos grazing and the distant forest. Belgian by blood, Goa-born and convent-educated in Surrey and Mumbai, Lulu's approach to guests is wise and warm; nothing is too much trouble. Only traditional materials have been used: laterite stone, high wooden ceilings and tiled roofs. Bedrooms, each with a private balcony, wrap around an inner courtyard.\u2022 islaingoa.com; four doubles; full-board from \u00a3130Among the coconuts on the outskirts of Loutolim, one of Goa's prettiest villages, a Jodhpur-blue exterior and fairy lights cascading from the terracotta roof are the first signs that you're in for something different. Norman and Carole's 700-year-old house is a wonderland of colour, outstanding local and international art (much of it Cuban), richly embroidered Rajasthani upholstery and antiques. Complementary interests \u2013 for Norman, art and a snooker table; for Carole, her exceptional cooking and jewellery (for sale) \u2013 come together with a shared passion for their garden. Four serenely well-designed bedrooms the colour of jewels face out on to the pool.\u2022 casasusegadgoa.com; four doubles; from \u00a365Off the beaten track, up in north Goa, are two stylish villas with views that soar downriver. On arrival you are ushered to the terrace with a sundowner: lap up the luxuriant scene. The views from the infinity pool are more breathtaking still. Later, meander downhill for a barbecue under the stars. The rooms each have a sit-out space overseeing the river or the islands. There are simple bright linens and rugs on dark stone floors, and walk-in showers. Look forward to long days lazing by two pools, serenaded by wildlife and spoiled by staff. Join in yoga on the terrace or plan a trip to the beaches. Leave by speedboat \u2013 James Bond-style. Bliss.\u2022 casacolvale.com; 11 doubles; from \u00a390 If you have pottered up the mountainside in that splendid little train, filled with expectations of Shimla, you may have been underwhelmed by the town. Its glorious past and its parochial present are at odds. But Chapslee is a treat, undisturbed by mobiles, internet or TV. One of the oldest houses in town (1835), it was the summer residence of the late Raja Charanjit Singh of Kapurthala; the present owner is his grandson. The walls are festooned with swords and sabres, Raj-era paintings and embroideries. Bedrooms are immensely comfortable and the suite is spoilingly sumptuous. The sitting room is in hunting-lodge style; the garden is smothered in nasturtiums. It's more English than England, a flawless snapshot of another age.\u2022 chapslee.com; four doubles, one suite; half-board from \u00a3190Pull through gates, enter landscaped grounds, and be welcomed with a marigold garland by serene, white-robed staff. As you fill in a questionnaire about your mental and physical health, realisation dawns that this is no regular luxury hotel. Your stay is planned in terms of diet and treatments: Ayurvedic massage and exquisite food, meditation and a rejuvenating spa, pukka astanga and hatha yoga twice a day and, if you like, afternoons spent in the organic vegetable garden. Of course, you can come just to soak up the atmosphere and sunbathe by the pool.\u2022 shreyasretreat.com; three cottage suites, eight tents, one cottage for five; full-board \u00a3250. Yoga and sound meditation classes includedThere are two separate bungalows, one housing a single suite, the other two double rooms. Huge sliding screens give onto verandas with bamboo blinds and views across the shimmering lake. This must be one of the most heavenly spots in all Kerala. The thatched air-conditioned suite has a dining room, living room and two bathrooms \u2013 a super-cool retreat. The lovely pool is shared. Interiors are colourfully minimalist, typical of the ethos of Malabar House, a small chain of boutique properties, which renovates old Keralan buildings with sympathy.\u2022 malabarhouse.com; one suite for two from \u00a3230; cottage for two from \u00a3140 Laze by the pool, sip cocktails under the mango tree. This 300-year-old colonial building was the office of an English tea broker. Interiors are studded with bold local paintings, entertaining artefacts and simple antiques. The bedrooms have high ceilings, deep comfortable beds and big windows for cool breezes. Chic bathrooms in the cottages have open-to-the-sky showers. Windows overlook the ingenious Chinese fishing nets (ancient but still in use) or the courtyard garden with its fountain and pond full of lilies. Dinners of caught-that-day fish are a pleasure, but it is the staff that are the biggest delight.\u2022 oldharbourhotel.com; 10 doubles, three cottage suites; from \u00a395 A few years ago Christel and Jan swapped their busy hotel in Spa, Belgium, for this cluster of cottages on a palm-fringed beach. The bedrooms are large and lovely, airy and light; walls are washed in ochre; silk bedcovers are piled high with cushions in rich reds and oranges. The chef will whip up tasty local dishes for you any time. Cross the sandy garden, duck under the thatched porch and you're on the beach, which belongs to you and the fishermen alone. It's almost a relief to discover when you arrive that there's not a lot to do.\u2022 abeachsymphony.com; four cottages for two; from \u00a395. Child bed available Ahilya, perched high above the Narmada river where there's always a breeze, is an enchanting hotel. The building's pale stone floors, dark timbers and ancient shuttered doors have been exquisitely restored. Richard Holkar is the driving force behind Ahilya. His family were the kings of Indore, though the family is more westernised today. Thanks to the Holkar Trust, the hand weaving for which Maheshwar was once famous is again thriving \u2013 you may visit the handloom centre nearby. Tranquil bedrooms have finely woven fabrics and views. Have a buffet breakfast on the ramparts and dine on delectable home-grown food on the terrace.\u2022 ahilyafort.com; nine doubles, two twins, a single, two tents; full-board \u00a3140 Reception is a treehouse, with an open-air lounge/dining room/bar and a look-out with live footage of the camp's watering hole. Home, too, is five treehouses scattered across the grounds; each is authentic, romantic, spectacular and spacious. There are big open showers, tribal paintings, vibrant throws and doors that fold back to a big balcony with a sensational view. You are pretty much left to your own devices but open jeeps and experienced guides will ferry you into the reserve from 7.30am. Bandhavgarh, compact and teeming with wildlife, has the densest tiger population in India.\u2022 treehousehideaway.com; five treehouses for two; from \u00a3165 full-board Thirteen tents look out across a 100-year-old reservoir, home to more than 250 species of migratory birds, while antelope graze on the bank. Smartly contained within white canvas, bedrooms are furnished in elegant Rajput style, while bathrooms feature marble and slate. Toast and tea are delivered to your tent before breakfast, pillows are of softest down. All is exemplary, from lessons on village lore to surely the most delicious food in the region. Head to bed by torchlight \u2013 to discover hot water bottles tucked between the sheets.\u2022 chhatrasagar.com; 13 tents; from \u00a3230 full-board, with tax, jeep and birdwatching tour includedShahpura Bagh would look very different if ancestor Rajadhiraj Nahar Singh had not mortgaged the jewels to build earth dams and bring water to his people. There would be no pastures, mustard crops or evergreens. At the top of the house, bedrooms are served by light and cool walls and bathrooms with old claw-foot tubs. Eat together in the beautiful dining room. The hospitable family will entertain you with hilarious anecdotes of Rajasthan's most \"colourful characters\".\u2022 shahpurabagh.com; four doubles, six suites; from \u00a365The women of the dusty village still cook over open fires, as they did when brave Darbar Lal Singh ruled 300 years ago. Anirudh Rathore's restoration recalls the halcyon days of royal Rajasthan. Seated beneath the fabulous ceiling of the dining room, guarded by portraits of five generations, you can appreciate how this was the court where warriors met over matters of state. Disturbed only by distant prayer, you can float in the exquisite infinity pool. Why not play at being the movie star when, couched in velvet on a bullock cart, you progress through the village (not for the shy), to the great curiosity of the locals? Few travellers make it this far: a rare treat.\u2022  fortbarli.com ; six doubles, two suites; from \u00a375 Enjoy acres of wheat fields, twittering birds, gardens and hammocks swinging from shady fruit trees. The old house itself is elegantly light and cooled by the breeze. Old, rescued artefacts account for much of the furniture. A well-stocked gym and library will stretch different muscle groups before a candlelit dinner in the company of your warm, cultured hosts. Bhanwar and his wife are deeply eco-conscious, encouraging guests to share a car, employing and buying locally, composting. Even the pool, set among palms, is an irrigation resource.\u2022 savista.com; 13 doubles, three suites; from \u00a380English gardens, a terracotta bridge, 80s kitsch \u2013 yet this is still the real India, living with a family in what Mr and Mrs Singh love to call \"a cosy home from home\". It's right in the heart of romantic Udaipur and, from the terrific rooftop terrace, you can visually plan your day's itinerary, starting at the famous Fateh Sagar Lake. The furniture in the bedrooms takes you on a colour-coded journey, beginning with 200-year-old Rajasthan and tumbling into the present.\u2022  lakeviewvilla.in  ; four doubles, one suite; from \u00a323 A retired British doctor, a traveller and a talker with comedic flair, Chris has poured energy into creating his utopia; his staff wear the broadest smiles and the whole place sweeps you into a warm embrace. The house stands at the foot of a steep hill, huddled in a horseshoe of scrub hills with views from the pretty garden across the lake to the Western Ghats. Bedrooms are a picture of taste and restraint \u2013 tiled floors, white linen, solar-powered showers, fresh flowers on bedspreads. Chris is passionate about the environment and social responsibility, guided trips to the village support the local community.\u2022 cardamomhouse.com; six doubles, one suite; from \u00a340Husna-Tara has created a dream \u2013 effortlessly stylish and wickedly indulgent. In 1860, a Scottish tea company established the estate, enticed by the luxuriant hillsides and cool climes; today they supply Harrods. As perfect as the teas are the sundowners on the terrace and the immaculate lawns \u2013 and the bedroom suites are some of the loveliest in the world. Gaze from a wicker chair on inspirational views, dine by moonlight on exquisite foods. Camp out at a \"lodge\" near the river where sumptuous picnics are presented on linen. Tricky to reach but worth every rut and bounce.\u2022 glenburnteaestate.com; eight suites; from \u00a3230 full-board with activities, transfers and laundry included\u2022 Observer readers can buy a copy of Alastair Sawday's Special Places to Stay, India & Sri Lanka, which is published on Thursday, for \u00a37.19 (rrp \u00a311.99) plus \u00a32.99p&p. Visit sawdays.co.uk/bookshop and use the code INDIAOBSERVER or phone 01275 395431. Offer ends 31 October 2009", "tags": ["India holidays", "Hotels", "Delhi holidays", "Wildlife holidays", "Food and drink", "Travel", "Spa breaks"], "title": "20 fabulous boutique hotels in India"},{"date": "2009-09-23T08:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "There's no stranger figure on Indian television news at the moment than retired atomic scientist K Santhanam. One of the driving forces behind the country's weapons nuclear programme, Santhanam has gone rogue in the past few weeks, denouncing the timidity of Indian government's pursuit of the most powerful weapons ever devised.Santhanam wants the country to stop worrying and love the bomb. According to the scientist, India's nuclear tests conducted more than a decade ago were a dud. The country now stands \"naked\" before China \u2013 unable to deter the People's Liberation Army.The only solution, says Santhanam, is to defy world opinion and explode a massive thermonuclear device \u2013 in his words for India \"to cross the Rubicon\" by dropping its voluntary testing moratorium.This runs against the grain of current thinking, which envisages a shrinking of nuclear weapons. The old cold war mentality of mutually assured destruction and the idea of deterrence have been replaced with a call for a nuclear weapons-free world.This shift can be traced back to AQ Khan's atomic supermarket, run from Pakistan, which spread technologies to hostile regimes \u2013 with American indifference. The result is that a host of states from Iran to North Korea stand on the threshold of going nuclear.More worrying is an assessment that Pakistan's own nuclear weapons facilities have been attacked three times in two years by extremists. Al-Qaida openly says it wants the bomb to wage war on America.Nuclear weapons in such hands would make deterrence less effective and more hazardous. Little wonder that one of Barack Obama's key messages at the UN this week will be about global nuclear disarmament.The securitists in India have a different agenda. They see nuclear weapons as a route to respect. Santhanam is undoubtedly a hawk, one who has chafed against the restraints India faced since it refused in the 1960s to sign the nuclear non-proliferation treaty \u2013 Delhi said it was a version of nuclear apartheid.The NPT banned countries, apart from the five security council members, from owning atomic weapons and simultaneously benefiting from civilian trade in such technologies. The result was that India tried to build its nuclear weapons industry from scratch.India did get the bomb \u2013 exploding the Smiling Buddha in 1974 and 15 years later it tested five devices. The uber-nationalists say that India's home-grown nukes could be geared up for bigger things \u2013 citing Pakistan's expanding nuclear arsenal and China's vast armoury as reasons to explode bigger devices.There is an opportunity lurking in the rhetoric gap between Obama's speeches on disarmament and the implementation of such ideas. That opening, say hawks, could be filled by a series of massive Indian nuclear tests, which would deter Delhi's enemies and secure its stockpile \u2013 while the world frets about AQ Khan, Iran and North Korea.Bizarre as this might sound, Indian testing could be justified by the president's soaring idealism. Although Obama wants to Washington to ratify the comprehensive test ban treaty, it has yet to be passed by the Senate. As long as the US has not signed the treaty, Delhi's hawks reason, Washington can denounce Indian nuclear tests but the rest of the world is going to ask why senators have blocked the treaty for years.For a section of India's elite, the US's political gridlock is a boon. They point to China, which tested its arsenal until 1996 before signing up to the NPT and endorsing the CTBT. Why, runs the thinking, shouldn't India be allowed to do the same?It's a dangerous game. India has not signed the NPT or the CTBT. It has been a nuclear rogue state. Yet it was brought in from the cold last year by the international community and permitted to trade in nuclear technology despite not having signed the NPT.It is the only exception ever made for any state with nuclear weapons \u2013 a coup and recognition of its rising global status. France, Russia and the US have signed lucrative deals with India. Canada and Britain want in too. The world signalled that it wanted to turn swords into ploughshares \u2013 converting nuclear weapons know-how into nuclear energy know-how.A series of massive Indian nuclear tests would snatch defeat from the jaws of diplomatic victory. It might provide a short-cut to international status \u2013 but it would be one of a pariah. Questions would be raised about India's pursuit of intercontinental ballistic missiles, its plans for nuclear-powered submarines and its burgeoning space industry. It would rightfully be seen as a renegade act, sparking an arms race in Asia when the world least needed it.Should India test again, the country would once again be subject to sanctions and be seen as a nation engaged in a needless military build-up while its population languished in poverty. Ever-growing nuclear stockpiles are seen as a threat to the international order and a distraction from economic progress. For India to go nuclear all over again in a bigger, more deadly way would be a sign of weakness not strength.", "tags": ["India", "Nuclear weapons", "World news"], "title": "India must turn away from the bomb | Randeep Ramesh"},{"date": "2009-09-10T08:28:34Z", "country": "india", "content": "Five children have been killed and more than 20 injured in a stampede at a school in north-east Delhi, according to hospital officials.The stampede left at least five dead and another 24 were hurt, according to the hospital where the injured have been taken. The Press Trust of India (PTI) news agency reported that 27 pupils were injured.The stampede was triggered by rumours of an electrical current passing through the building after a short-circuit in the school, the PTI reported.Five of those injured in the incident were in critical condition in Guru Tegh Bahadur hospital, said medical superintendent OP Kalra.The stampede occurred as the pupils, aged eight to 16, arrived for an exam, Kalra told reporters.Joint commissioner of the New Delhi police, Dharmendra Kumar, told the PTI: \"There was a stampede as some of the children on the first floor were asked to come down and others were asked to go up and apparently the staircase was very narrow. Most of the children got stuck there.\"The PTI reported that the five dead pupils were girls, as were 26 of the 27 children it reported as injured.", "tags": ["India", "Schools", "World news", "Education"], "title": "India school stampede kills pupils"},{"date": "2009-07-01T10:45:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The Indian gay and lesbian community may have been told not to get their hopes up about the government decriminalising homosexuality, but the fact that talks have even begun this week to discuss repealing section 377 of the Indian Penal Code, should be cause to celebrate. In India, homosexuality is illegal and carries a life sentence. But while fierce opposition has predictably come from extreme Hindu and Muslim religious parties such as the Vishwa Hindu Parishad and Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind, who claim it would bring \"sexual anarchy\" and \"spread diseases\", it can only be a matter of time until change arrives. After all, even Nepal lifted its ban in 2007.Apart from the fact that India is trying to rebrand itself as a superpower and distance itself from its neighbour Pakistan (which also bans homosexuality), the gay revolution is already under way, whether or not the judicial system likes it. Gay Pride parades took place in India's major cities last Sunday for the second successful year in a row, from which a poignant image emerged that encapsulated the years of struggle and hope for the future of India's gay community. Two elderly Indian women, one resting her head on the other's shoulders, carried banners declaring their love for each other. Doesn't sound like a big deal? In Hindi, to quote Deepa Mehta's groundbreaking lesbian film Fire, there isn't even a word for lesbian. It doesn't exist in Indian society, according to those in power \u2013 it cannot exist.Well, it does. And due to the intolerance meted out by sections of Indian society, there are an incredible number of gay men and women who have found themselves in loveless marriages, arranged or otherwise forced by whispering relatives to deny their very selves. This intolerance has passed by osmosis to the British Asian community over here. As someone who used to write for UkGay.com to highlight British Asian gay and lesbian issues and increase their visibility in the press, I think very little has changed over the past few years with regards to community attitudes. Worryingly, a 2007 survey by the BBC Asian Network showed that a whopping 44% of British Asian youngsters felt homosexuality was immoral.While this is disheartening, change in attitude on both sides might be helped along from an unlikely quarter \u2013 Bollywood. Films over recent years have in one way or another touched upon gay issues. The most relevant was Fashion, released this year, which had a sub-plot in which a gay male fashion designer married his female friend to keep his mother happy. Perhaps it would help if India's gay celebrities actually came out to champion the cause, but for now they've only got Prince Manvendra from Gujarati royalty, who came out in 2007 and appeared on the ghastly BBC show The Undercover Princes to find love in Brighton's gay bars.For now India's gay community takes its strength from its tireless activists and a flourishing clubbing scene, as does its British Asian counterpart. Whether India's government repeals section 377 or not, the fact that sections of the country are once again having this debate surely means we're getting a step closer.", "tags": ["India", "LGBT rights", "World news"], "title": "Gay days for India | Poorna Shetty"},{"date": "2009-07-28T15:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Last weekend, it was reported that India had denied a visa to Rebiya Kadeer, the ostensible leader in exile of China's minority Uighur community, who China accuses of masterminding recent unrest in its western province of Xinjiang. Many Indian strategists applauded the decision \u2013 only for the Uighur Human Rights Project to later deny the reports. New Delhi, the strategists argued, had little to gain from riling Beijing and even less to gain from adding to Kadeer's travel itinerary, a global junket aimed at building sympathy for the plight of the Uighurs. The Turkic, predominantly Muslim Uighurs made headlines this summer after riots and state repression shook Xinjiang. India's interests, some say, would be best served by staying out of the mess altogether.After all, a visit from Kadeer would, it seems, only cause grief for her would-be hosts. Her impending attendance at the Melbourne International Film Festival in Australia prompted Chinese directors to withdraw their films and Chinese hackers to attack the festival's website. In a furious diplomatic spat, Beijing slammed Japan's decision to grant her a visa. And Chinese officials threatened Ankara over the Turkish prime minister's promise to allow Kadeer into Turkey.This certainly isn't the first (nor will it be the last) time a state has put pressure on other countries to curtail the movement of controversial individuals. But what we should find distressing is the extent to which countries have allowed their own affairs to be dictated by China's propaganda campaign. Kadeer is supported by American money, but she is not a \"terrorist\" (as China insists on dubbing her and her allies), nor is she capable of orchestrating the unrest in Xinjiang (as China claims she did). Instead, China has turned this woman \u2013 who I had the pleasure of meeting briefly when she visited openDemocracy's offices a few years ago \u2013 into a straw-man, directing domestic outrage against her while distracting attention from the real anger, real frustration and real grievances of the Uighurs.Indians should feel disappointed by the idea that their country would placate China's officials and legions of \"netizens\". In so many ways, India is strikingly different from its fellow Asian giant. India is a democracy, bubbling with debate and dissent. It is a truly plural country, uniting dozens of languages, thousands of dialects, numerous religions and ethnicities. It is no stranger to ethnic violence and secessionism, but it has managed to accommodate most of these outbreaks through the democratic process and under the wide roof of Indian identity. No Indian leader could now speak as Chinese president Hu Jintao did yesterday when, in archaic terms, he called for the \"revival of the great Chinese race\".But like China, India has settled upon a more functional vision of foreign policy in the 21st century. In the wake of the cold war and the stumbles of American power, both New Delhi and Beijing believe in building a \"multipolar world order\", in which many more countries can be stakeholders in an international system defined by negotiation and respect of national sovereignty. Such a system may be more global and representative, but it provides little scope for any kind of judgment and policy beyond the strategic.Fifty years ago, India welcomed the Dalai Lama and the Tibetan leadership as they fled the guns and tanks of the Chinese army. Up to the 1990s, India supported Aung San Suu Kyi's democratic movement in Chinese-backed Burma, when western governments had little interest in her struggle (let's not forget that the west also had \u2013 and continues to have \u2013 a great predilection for expedient, morally blind foreign policy). Indian policymakers remember that these decisions had real strategic consequences, including a disastrous war with China in 1962 and the loss of influence on its eastern border. For India to deny Kadeer a visa would stem from a more cautious political calculus. But would also suggests that India accepts the rules of Chinese geopolitics: power \u2013 never ideals \u2013 is the ultimate arbiter of action and compromise.", "tags": ["India", "China", "Rebiya Kadeer", "Human rights", "Race issues", "World news", "Law", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "India, don't kowtow to China | Kanishk Tharoor"},{"date": "2009-09-26T23:07:26Z", "country": "india", "content": "When travelling in a country as richly alien as India, it is tempting and almost forgivable to reach for the familiar. The unwary retreat to large, Western-style hotels where they are safe but dissatisfied (and also \u2013 misguidedly \u2013 convinced they are safe from water-borne diseases.)Yet the solutions are there. All over India people have opened their homes or created small hotels where you feel safely part of the country. But the word \"hotel'' does little justice to this fabulous mix. There are, in our latest guide alone, treehouses, villas, camps, palaces, cottages, bungalows and forts \u2013 up mountains and rivers, in cities and in the countryside. The variety is almost bewildering. Adopt any role you wish: collector of human experience, idler, yoga disciple, massagee, meditator, adventurer, aimless wanderer, self-improver, design buff \u2013 India can absorb all your fantasies and offer a thousand more.Above all, India is utterly itself. It is so diverse that the footprints of other cultures quickly fade or take on an Indian hue. That is a considerable strength, and you, too, if you step off the path to meet the people to whom these places belong, will be changed. Each place gives you India on its own plate \u2013 a treat for every type of traveller.Before you march headlong into the full Indian experience, unwind in this city oasis with an acre of garden. The Manor, designed by a Japanese architect, started life in the 1950s as a jungle-fringed hotel; now it finds itself in the city's smartest suburb. With far more character than many other luxury addresses, it exudes a minimalism that is never austere: lovely wall hangings in the corridors, stunning mosaic floors. The delicious food is Indian or fusion and the tranquil garden is a sweet spot for a fresh lime soda. Try a morning yoga or a rejuvenating massage \u2013 a 15-minute taster is included in the price.\u2022 themanordelhi.com; 15 double rooms from Rs7,500 (\u00a395). All prices in this article are for a double or twin room per night Step into the air-conditioned cool marble reception \u2013 delicious! Immediately you are made to feel at home, in among the big sandstone Jaisalmer fresco and the chairs crafted from Rajasthani ox carts. Owners Rajat and Sanjana can organise anything you come up with. Every peaceful bedroom is special in its own way \u2013 a gold-plated elephant head-dress or a Bollywood poster, a small balcony, a swish wet room. There's a spa and a rooftop restaurant with views east over suburbs and trees. A five-course menu flows from the kitchen, with an exceptional chef and a brand new tandoor.\u2022shantihome.com; 17 doubles; from \u00a375The perfect soft landing into India. Owners Martin and Annie have a profound knowledge of India and give the warmest welcome you could wish for \u2013 cool lime sodas on arrival, delicious food and conversation later. Their new bougainvillea-strewn, Lutyens-style farmhouse is an hour outside the craziness of Delhi. Each elegant bedroom opens onto a veranda running around a courtyard. In summer you can sleep on the charpois (rope-strung beds) in the wonderful gardens. Martin will walk you round his farmstead, where organic vegetables grow; they keep pigs and buffalos, too.\u2022 tiklibottom.com; two doubles, two twins; full-board from \u00a3150 The choice of setting for \"Sacred Five Trees\" is inspired and the 40 metre-long covered veranda is a place to sit and dream amid the sweet scents of jasmine and frangipani. Unfussy decorative touches \u2013 copper pots, bowls of floating flowers, cane lampshades \u2013 soothe, as do the views of the river, the buffalos grazing and the distant forest. Belgian by blood, Goa-born and convent-educated in Surrey and Mumbai, Lulu's approach to guests is wise and warm; nothing is too much trouble. Only traditional materials have been used: laterite stone, high wooden ceilings and tiled roofs. Bedrooms, each with a private balcony, wrap around an inner courtyard.\u2022 islaingoa.com; four doubles; full-board from \u00a3130Among the coconuts on the outskirts of Loutolim, one of Goa's prettiest villages, a Jodhpur-blue exterior and fairy lights cascading from the terracotta roof are the first signs that you're in for something different. Norman and Carole's 700-year-old house is a wonderland of colour, outstanding local and international art (much of it Cuban), richly embroidered Rajasthani upholstery and antiques. Complementary interests \u2013 for Norman, art and a snooker table; for Carole, her exceptional cooking and jewellery (for sale) \u2013 come together with a shared passion for their garden. Four serenely well-designed bedrooms the colour of jewels face out on to the pool.\u2022 casasusegadgoa.com; four doubles; from \u00a365Off the beaten track, up in north Goa, are two stylish villas with views that soar downriver. On arrival you are ushered to the terrace with a sundowner: lap up the luxuriant scene. The views from the infinity pool are more breathtaking still. Later, meander downhill for a barbecue under the stars. The rooms each have a sit-out space overseeing the river or the islands. There are simple bright linens and rugs on dark stone floors, and walk-in showers. Look forward to long days lazing by two pools, serenaded by wildlife and spoiled by staff. Join in yoga on the terrace or plan a trip to the beaches. Leave by speedboat \u2013 James Bond-style. Bliss.\u2022 casacolvale.com; 11 doubles; from \u00a390 If you have pottered up the mountainside in that splendid little train, filled with expectations of Shimla, you may have been underwhelmed by the town. Its glorious past and its parochial present are at odds. But Chapslee is a treat, undisturbed by mobiles, internet or TV. One of the oldest houses in town (1835), it was the summer residence of the late Raja Charanjit Singh of Kapurthala; the present owner is his grandson. The walls are festooned with swords and sabres, Raj-era paintings and embroideries. Bedrooms are immensely comfortable and the suite is spoilingly sumptuous. The sitting room is in hunting-lodge style; the garden is smothered in nasturtiums. It's more English than England, a flawless snapshot of another age.\u2022 chapslee.com; four doubles, one suite; half-board from \u00a3190Pull through gates, enter landscaped grounds, and be welcomed with a marigold garland by serene, white-robed staff. As you fill in a questionnaire about your mental and physical health, realisation dawns that this is no regular luxury hotel. Your stay is planned in terms of diet and treatments: Ayurvedic massage and exquisite food, meditation and a rejuvenating spa, pukka astanga and hatha yoga twice a day and, if you like, afternoons spent in the organic vegetable garden. Of course, you can come just to soak up the atmosphere and sunbathe by the pool.\u2022 shreyasretreat.com; three cottage suites, eight tents, one cottage for five; full-board \u00a3250. Yoga and sound meditation classes includedThere are two separate bungalows, one housing a single suite, the other two double rooms. Huge sliding screens give onto verandas with bamboo blinds and views across the shimmering lake. This must be one of the most heavenly spots in all Kerala. The thatched air-conditioned suite has a dining room, living room and two bathrooms \u2013 a super-cool retreat. The lovely pool is shared. Interiors are colourfully minimalist, typical of the ethos of Malabar House, a small chain of boutique properties, which renovates old Keralan buildings with sympathy.\u2022 malabarhouse.com; one suite for two from \u00a3230; cottage for two from \u00a3140 Laze by the pool, sip cocktails under the mango tree. This 300-year-old colonial building was the office of an English tea broker. Interiors are studded with bold local paintings, entertaining artefacts and simple antiques. The bedrooms have high ceilings, deep comfortable beds and big windows for cool breezes. Chic bathrooms in the cottages have open-to-the-sky showers. Windows overlook the ingenious Chinese fishing nets (ancient but still in use) or the courtyard garden with its fountain and pond full of lilies. Dinners of caught-that-day fish are a pleasure, but it is the staff that are the biggest delight.\u2022 oldharbourhotel.com; 10 doubles, three cottage suites; from \u00a395 A few years ago Christel and Jan swapped their busy hotel in Spa, Belgium, for this cluster of cottages on a palm-fringed beach. The bedrooms are large and lovely, airy and light; walls are washed in ochre; silk bedcovers are piled high with cushions in rich reds and oranges. The chef will whip up tasty local dishes for you any time. Cross the sandy garden, duck under the thatched porch and you're on the beach, which belongs to you and the fishermen alone. It's almost a relief to discover when you arrive that there's not a lot to do.\u2022 abeachsymphony.com; four cottages for two; from \u00a395. Child bed available Ahilya, perched high above the Narmada river where there's always a breeze, is an enchanting hotel. The building's pale stone floors, dark timbers and ancient shuttered doors have been exquisitely restored. Richard Holkar is the driving force behind Ahilya. His family were the kings of Indore, though the family is more westernised today. Thanks to the Holkar Trust, the hand weaving for which Maheshwar was once famous is again thriving \u2013 you may visit the handloom centre nearby. Tranquil bedrooms have finely woven fabrics and views. Have a buffet breakfast on the ramparts and dine on delectable home-grown food on the terrace.\u2022 ahilyafort.com; nine doubles, two twins, a single, two tents; full-board \u00a3140 Reception is a treehouse, with an open-air lounge/dining room/bar and a look-out with live footage of the camp's watering hole. Home, too, is five treehouses scattered across the grounds; each is authentic, romantic, spectacular and spacious. There are big open showers, tribal paintings, vibrant throws and doors that fold back to a big balcony with a sensational view. You are pretty much left to your own devices but open jeeps and experienced guides will ferry you into the reserve from 7.30am. Bandhavgarh, compact and teeming with wildlife, has the densest tiger population in India.\u2022 treehousehideaway.com; five treehouses for two; from \u00a3165 full-board Thirteen tents look out across a 100-year-old reservoir, home to more than 250 species of migratory birds, while antelope graze on the bank. Smartly contained within white canvas, bedrooms are furnished in elegant Rajput style, while bathrooms feature marble and slate. Toast and tea are delivered to your tent before breakfast, pillows are of softest down. All is exemplary, from lessons on village lore to surely the most delicious food in the region. Head to bed by torchlight \u2013 to discover hot water bottles tucked between the sheets.\u2022 chhatrasagar.com; 13 tents; from \u00a3230 full-board, with tax, jeep and birdwatching tour includedShahpura Bagh would look very different if ancestor Rajadhiraj Nahar Singh had not mortgaged the jewels to build earth dams and bring water to his people. There would be no pastures, mustard crops or evergreens. At the top of the house, bedrooms are served by light and cool walls and bathrooms with old claw-foot tubs. Eat together in the beautiful dining room. The hospitable family will entertain you with hilarious anecdotes of Rajasthan's most \"colourful characters\".\u2022 shahpurabagh.com; four doubles, six suites; from \u00a365The women of the dusty village still cook over open fires, as they did when brave Darbar Lal Singh ruled 300 years ago. Anirudh Rathore's restoration recalls the halcyon days of royal Rajasthan. Seated beneath the fabulous ceiling of the dining room, guarded by portraits of five generations, you can appreciate how this was the court where warriors met over matters of state. Disturbed only by distant prayer, you can float in the exquisite infinity pool. Why not play at being the movie star when, couched in velvet on a bullock cart, you progress through the village (not for the shy), to the great curiosity of the locals? Few travellers make it this far: a rare treat.\u2022  fortbarli.com ; six doubles, two suites; from \u00a375 Enjoy acres of wheat fields, twittering birds, gardens and hammocks swinging from shady fruit trees. The old house itself is elegantly light and cooled by the breeze. Old, rescued artefacts account for much of the furniture. A well-stocked gym and library will stretch different muscle groups before a candlelit dinner in the company of your warm, cultured hosts. Bhanwar and his wife are deeply eco-conscious, encouraging guests to share a car, employing and buying locally, composting. Even the pool, set among palms, is an irrigation resource.\u2022 savista.com; 13 doubles, three suites; from \u00a380English gardens, a terracotta bridge, 80s kitsch \u2013 yet this is still the real India, living with a family in what Mr and Mrs Singh love to call \"a cosy home from home\". It's right in the heart of romantic Udaipur and, from the terrific rooftop terrace, you can visually plan your day's itinerary, starting at the famous Fateh Sagar Lake. The furniture in the bedrooms takes you on a colour-coded journey, beginning with 200-year-old Rajasthan and tumbling into the present.\u2022  lakeviewvilla.in  ; four doubles, one suite; from \u00a323 A retired British doctor, a traveller and a talker with comedic flair, Chris has poured energy into creating his utopia; his staff wear the broadest smiles and the whole place sweeps you into a warm embrace. The house stands at the foot of a steep hill, huddled in a horseshoe of scrub hills with views from the pretty garden across the lake to the Western Ghats. Bedrooms are a picture of taste and restraint \u2013 tiled floors, white linen, solar-powered showers, fresh flowers on bedspreads. Chris is passionate about the environment and social responsibility, guided trips to the village support the local community.\u2022 cardamomhouse.com; six doubles, one suite; from \u00a340Husna-Tara has created a dream \u2013 effortlessly stylish and wickedly indulgent. In 1860, a Scottish tea company established the estate, enticed by the luxuriant hillsides and cool climes; today they supply Harrods. As perfect as the teas are the sundowners on the terrace and the immaculate lawns \u2013 and the bedroom suites are some of the loveliest in the world. Gaze from a wicker chair on inspirational views, dine by moonlight on exquisite foods. Camp out at a \"lodge\" near the river where sumptuous picnics are presented on linen. Tricky to reach but worth every rut and bounce.\u2022 glenburnteaestate.com; eight suites; from \u00a3230 full-board with activities, transfers and laundry included\u2022 Observer readers can buy a copy of Alastair Sawday's Special Places to Stay, India & Sri Lanka, which is published on Thursday, for \u00a37.19 (rrp \u00a311.99) plus \u00a32.99p&p. Visit sawdays.co.uk/bookshop and use the code INDIAOBSERVER or phone 01275 395431. Offer ends 31 October 2009", "tags": ["India holidays", "Hotels", "Delhi holidays", "Wildlife holidays", "Food and drink", "Travel", "Spa breaks"], "title": "20 fabulous boutique hotels in India"},{"date": "2009-09-23T08:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "There's no stranger figure on Indian television news at the moment than retired atomic scientist K Santhanam. One of the driving forces behind the country's weapons nuclear programme, Santhanam has gone rogue in the past few weeks, denouncing the timidity of Indian government's pursuit of the most powerful weapons ever devised.Santhanam wants the country to stop worrying and love the bomb. According to the scientist, India's nuclear tests conducted more than a decade ago were a dud. The country now stands \"naked\" before China \u2013 unable to deter the People's Liberation Army.The only solution, says Santhanam, is to defy world opinion and explode a massive thermonuclear device \u2013 in his words for India \"to cross the Rubicon\" by dropping its voluntary testing moratorium.This runs against the grain of current thinking, which envisages a shrinking of nuclear weapons. The old cold war mentality of mutually assured destruction and the idea of deterrence have been replaced with a call for a nuclear weapons-free world.This shift can be traced back to AQ Khan's atomic supermarket, run from Pakistan, which spread technologies to hostile regimes \u2013 with American indifference. The result is that a host of states from Iran to North Korea stand on the threshold of going nuclear.More worrying is an assessment that Pakistan's own nuclear weapons facilities have been attacked three times in two years by extremists. Al-Qaida openly says it wants the bomb to wage war on America.Nuclear weapons in such hands would make deterrence less effective and more hazardous. Little wonder that one of Barack Obama's key messages at the UN this week will be about global nuclear disarmament.The securitists in India have a different agenda. They see nuclear weapons as a route to respect. Santhanam is undoubtedly a hawk, one who has chafed against the restraints India faced since it refused in the 1960s to sign the nuclear non-proliferation treaty \u2013 Delhi said it was a version of nuclear apartheid.The NPT banned countries, apart from the five security council members, from owning atomic weapons and simultaneously benefiting from civilian trade in such technologies. The result was that India tried to build its nuclear weapons industry from scratch.India did get the bomb \u2013 exploding the Smiling Buddha in 1974 and 15 years later it tested five devices. The uber-nationalists say that India's home-grown nukes could be geared up for bigger things \u2013 citing Pakistan's expanding nuclear arsenal and China's vast armoury as reasons to explode bigger devices.There is an opportunity lurking in the rhetoric gap between Obama's speeches on disarmament and the implementation of such ideas. That opening, say hawks, could be filled by a series of massive Indian nuclear tests, which would deter Delhi's enemies and secure its stockpile \u2013 while the world frets about AQ Khan, Iran and North Korea.Bizarre as this might sound, Indian testing could be justified by the president's soaring idealism. Although Obama wants to Washington to ratify the comprehensive test ban treaty, it has yet to be passed by the Senate. As long as the US has not signed the treaty, Delhi's hawks reason, Washington can denounce Indian nuclear tests but the rest of the world is going to ask why senators have blocked the treaty for years.For a section of India's elite, the US's political gridlock is a boon. They point to China, which tested its arsenal until 1996 before signing up to the NPT and endorsing the CTBT. Why, runs the thinking, shouldn't India be allowed to do the same?It's a dangerous game. India has not signed the NPT or the CTBT. It has been a nuclear rogue state. Yet it was brought in from the cold last year by the international community and permitted to trade in nuclear technology despite not having signed the NPT.It is the only exception ever made for any state with nuclear weapons \u2013 a coup and recognition of its rising global status. France, Russia and the US have signed lucrative deals with India. Canada and Britain want in too. The world signalled that it wanted to turn swords into ploughshares \u2013 converting nuclear weapons know-how into nuclear energy know-how.A series of massive Indian nuclear tests would snatch defeat from the jaws of diplomatic victory. It might provide a short-cut to international status \u2013 but it would be one of a pariah. Questions would be raised about India's pursuit of intercontinental ballistic missiles, its plans for nuclear-powered submarines and its burgeoning space industry. It would rightfully be seen as a renegade act, sparking an arms race in Asia when the world least needed it.Should India test again, the country would once again be subject to sanctions and be seen as a nation engaged in a needless military build-up while its population languished in poverty. Ever-growing nuclear stockpiles are seen as a threat to the international order and a distraction from economic progress. For India to go nuclear all over again in a bigger, more deadly way would be a sign of weakness not strength.", "tags": ["India", "Nuclear weapons", "World news"], "title": "India must turn away from the bomb | Randeep Ramesh"},{"date": "2009-09-16T15:41:40Z", "country": "india", "content": "BP has signalled a further retreat from its international renewable business by selling off its wind operation in India today.The oil group, which recently shut down its alternative energy headquarters in London, said it would concentrate its wind interests in the US.BP has sold three operational windfarms in India for just under $100m (\u00a361m) to Green Infra Limited, an independent energy provider owned by private equity.The business controls a relatively modest 100MW of power in locations such as Maharashtra but has a vital foothold in one of the world's fastest-growing renewable markets.\"Following a strategic review in 2008, BP decided to concentrate its global wind development activities on the portfolio of onshore wind development projects and opportunities that it had built up across the US,\" it said in a prepared statement.The company will continue with its solar joint venture in India and has no intention of selling any of its petroleum-related businesses there.BP employs over 1,500 staff in India and says it is continuing to \"actively explore new opportunities and long-term material growth options\" for its Castrol automotive lubricants and other sectors.The company was recently awarded operation of a deepwater oil exploration block in the Krishna-Godavari basin off the east coast of India.It says it remains committed to its Tata BP Solar joint venture which is a leading manufacturer and supplier of photovoltaic power systems.But since Tony Hayward took the helm at BP from John Browne in the spring of 2007, critics have detected a marked retreat on the renewables front.There has also been a move into more carbon-intensive activities such as tar sands.But Hayward and BP deny any major change of direction, insisting that the company is just marshalling its resources better in an economic downturn.They point out that over the past three years, BP has built a wind business in the US with interests in over 1,000MW of installed gross generating capacity and more than 1,000MW gross capacity at an advanced stage of development. In total, BP's US wind energy portfolio contains almost 100 projects, with a total potential generating capacity of up to 20,000MW.Critics of the company's record on renewable energy point to the decision to close the independent London office of BP Alternative Energy and the exit of managing director, Vivienne Cox in June. In April, BP axed 620 jobs from its solar power business, closing two plants in Spain and phasing out module assembly at one in the US. There has also been confirmation that the 2009 budget for the clean energy division will be cut from $1.4bn (\u00a3850m) to anywhere between $1bn and $500m but the company has insisted that its original spending target of $8bn by 2015 remains on track.", "tags": ["Wind power", "Renewable energy", "Energy", "India", "World news", "BP", "Business", "Utilities", "Oil", "Oil", "Energy industry"], "title": "BP sells windfarm operation in India"},{"date": "2009-09-10T08:28:34Z", "country": "india", "content": "Five children have been killed and more than 20 injured in a stampede at a school in north-east Delhi, according to hospital officials.The stampede left at least five dead and another 24 were hurt, according to the hospital where the injured have been taken. The Press Trust of India (PTI) news agency reported that 27 pupils were injured.The stampede was triggered by rumours of an electrical current passing through the building after a short-circuit in the school, the PTI reported.Five of those injured in the incident were in critical condition in Guru Tegh Bahadur hospital, said medical superintendent OP Kalra.The stampede occurred as the pupils, aged eight to 16, arrived for an exam, Kalra told reporters.Joint commissioner of the New Delhi police, Dharmendra Kumar, told the PTI: \"There was a stampede as some of the children on the first floor were asked to come down and others were asked to go up and apparently the staircase was very narrow. Most of the children got stuck there.\"The PTI reported that the five dead pupils were girls, as were 26 of the 27 children it reported as injured.", "tags": ["India", "Schools", "World news", "Education"], "title": "India school stampede kills pupils"},{"date": "2009-07-01T10:45:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The Indian gay and lesbian community may have been told not to get their hopes up about the government decriminalising homosexuality, but the fact that talks have even begun this week to discuss repealing section 377 of the Indian Penal Code, should be cause to celebrate. In India, homosexuality is illegal and carries a life sentence. But while fierce opposition has predictably come from extreme Hindu and Muslim religious parties such as the Vishwa Hindu Parishad and Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind, who claim it would bring \"sexual anarchy\" and \"spread diseases\", it can only be a matter of time until change arrives. After all, even Nepal lifted its ban in 2007.Apart from the fact that India is trying to rebrand itself as a superpower and distance itself from its neighbour Pakistan (which also bans homosexuality), the gay revolution is already under way, whether or not the judicial system likes it. Gay Pride parades took place in India's major cities last Sunday for the second successful year in a row, from which a poignant image emerged that encapsulated the years of struggle and hope for the future of India's gay community. Two elderly Indian women, one resting her head on the other's shoulders, carried banners declaring their love for each other. Doesn't sound like a big deal? In Hindi, to quote Deepa Mehta's groundbreaking lesbian film Fire, there isn't even a word for lesbian. It doesn't exist in Indian society, according to those in power \u2013 it cannot exist.Well, it does. And due to the intolerance meted out by sections of Indian society, there are an incredible number of gay men and women who have found themselves in loveless marriages, arranged or otherwise forced by whispering relatives to deny their very selves. This intolerance has passed by osmosis to the British Asian community over here. As someone who used to write for UkGay.com to highlight British Asian gay and lesbian issues and increase their visibility in the press, I think very little has changed over the past few years with regards to community attitudes. Worryingly, a 2007 survey by the BBC Asian Network showed that a whopping 44% of British Asian youngsters felt homosexuality was immoral.While this is disheartening, change in attitude on both sides might be helped along from an unlikely quarter \u2013 Bollywood. Films over recent years have in one way or another touched upon gay issues. The most relevant was Fashion, released this year, which had a sub-plot in which a gay male fashion designer married his female friend to keep his mother happy. Perhaps it would help if India's gay celebrities actually came out to champion the cause, but for now they've only got Prince Manvendra from Gujarati royalty, who came out in 2007 and appeared on the ghastly BBC show The Undercover Princes to find love in Brighton's gay bars.For now India's gay community takes its strength from its tireless activists and a flourishing clubbing scene, as does its British Asian counterpart. Whether India's government repeals section 377 or not, the fact that sections of the country are once again having this debate surely means we're getting a step closer.", "tags": ["India", "LGBT rights", "World news"], "title": "Gay days for India | Poorna Shetty"},{"date": "2009-07-28T15:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Last weekend, it was reported that India had denied a visa to Rebiya Kadeer, the ostensible leader in exile of China's minority Uighur community, who China accuses of masterminding recent unrest in its western province of Xinjiang. Many Indian strategists applauded the decision \u2013 only for the Uighur Human Rights Project to later deny the reports. New Delhi, the strategists argued, had little to gain from riling Beijing and even less to gain from adding to Kadeer's travel itinerary, a global junket aimed at building sympathy for the plight of the Uighurs. The Turkic, predominantly Muslim Uighurs made headlines this summer after riots and state repression shook Xinjiang. India's interests, some say, would be best served by staying out of the mess altogether.After all, a visit from Kadeer would, it seems, only cause grief for her would-be hosts. Her impending attendance at the Melbourne International Film Festival in Australia prompted Chinese directors to withdraw their films and Chinese hackers to attack the festival's website. In a furious diplomatic spat, Beijing slammed Japan's decision to grant her a visa. And Chinese officials threatened Ankara over the Turkish prime minister's promise to allow Kadeer into Turkey.This certainly isn't the first (nor will it be the last) time a state has put pressure on other countries to curtail the movement of controversial individuals. But what we should find distressing is the extent to which countries have allowed their own affairs to be dictated by China's propaganda campaign. Kadeer is supported by American money, but she is not a \"terrorist\" (as China insists on dubbing her and her allies), nor is she capable of orchestrating the unrest in Xinjiang (as China claims she did). Instead, China has turned this woman \u2013 who I had the pleasure of meeting briefly when she visited openDemocracy's offices a few years ago \u2013 into a straw-man, directing domestic outrage against her while distracting attention from the real anger, real frustration and real grievances of the Uighurs.Indians should feel disappointed by the idea that their country would placate China's officials and legions of \"netizens\". In so many ways, India is strikingly different from its fellow Asian giant. India is a democracy, bubbling with debate and dissent. It is a truly plural country, uniting dozens of languages, thousands of dialects, numerous religions and ethnicities. It is no stranger to ethnic violence and secessionism, but it has managed to accommodate most of these outbreaks through the democratic process and under the wide roof of Indian identity. No Indian leader could now speak as Chinese president Hu Jintao did yesterday when, in archaic terms, he called for the \"revival of the great Chinese race\".But like China, India has settled upon a more functional vision of foreign policy in the 21st century. In the wake of the cold war and the stumbles of American power, both New Delhi and Beijing believe in building a \"multipolar world order\", in which many more countries can be stakeholders in an international system defined by negotiation and respect of national sovereignty. Such a system may be more global and representative, but it provides little scope for any kind of judgment and policy beyond the strategic.Fifty years ago, India welcomed the Dalai Lama and the Tibetan leadership as they fled the guns and tanks of the Chinese army. Up to the 1990s, India supported Aung San Suu Kyi's democratic movement in Chinese-backed Burma, when western governments had little interest in her struggle (let's not forget that the west also had \u2013 and continues to have \u2013 a great predilection for expedient, morally blind foreign policy). Indian policymakers remember that these decisions had real strategic consequences, including a disastrous war with China in 1962 and the loss of influence on its eastern border. For India to deny Kadeer a visa would stem from a more cautious political calculus. But would also suggests that India accepts the rules of Chinese geopolitics: power \u2013 never ideals \u2013 is the ultimate arbiter of action and compromise.", "tags": ["India", "China", "Rebiya Kadeer", "Human rights", "Race issues", "World news", "Law", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "India, don't kowtow to China | Kanishk Tharoor"},{"date": "2009-09-26T23:07:26Z", "country": "india", "content": "When travelling in a country as richly alien as India, it is tempting and almost forgivable to reach for the familiar. The unwary retreat to large, Western-style hotels where they are safe but dissatisfied (and also \u2013 misguidedly \u2013 convinced they are safe from water-borne diseases.)Yet the solutions are there. All over India people have opened their homes or created small hotels where you feel safely part of the country. But the word \"hotel'' does little justice to this fabulous mix. There are, in our latest guide alone, treehouses, villas, camps, palaces, cottages, bungalows and forts \u2013 up mountains and rivers, in cities and in the countryside. The variety is almost bewildering. Adopt any role you wish: collector of human experience, idler, yoga disciple, massagee, meditator, adventurer, aimless wanderer, self-improver, design buff \u2013 India can absorb all your fantasies and offer a thousand more.Above all, India is utterly itself. It is so diverse that the footprints of other cultures quickly fade or take on an Indian hue. That is a considerable strength, and you, too, if you step off the path to meet the people to whom these places belong, will be changed. Each place gives you India on its own plate \u2013 a treat for every type of traveller.Before you march headlong into the full Indian experience, unwind in this city oasis with an acre of garden. The Manor, designed by a Japanese architect, started life in the 1950s as a jungle-fringed hotel; now it finds itself in the city's smartest suburb. With far more character than many other luxury addresses, it exudes a minimalism that is never austere: lovely wall hangings in the corridors, stunning mosaic floors. The delicious food is Indian or fusion and the tranquil garden is a sweet spot for a fresh lime soda. Try a morning yoga or a rejuvenating massage \u2013 a 15-minute taster is included in the price.\u2022 themanordelhi.com; 15 double rooms from Rs7,500 (\u00a395). All prices in this article are for a double or twin room per night Step into the air-conditioned cool marble reception \u2013 delicious! Immediately you are made to feel at home, in among the big sandstone Jaisalmer fresco and the chairs crafted from Rajasthani ox carts. Owners Rajat and Sanjana can organise anything you come up with. Every peaceful bedroom is special in its own way \u2013 a gold-plated elephant head-dress or a Bollywood poster, a small balcony, a swish wet room. There's a spa and a rooftop restaurant with views east over suburbs and trees. A five-course menu flows from the kitchen, with an exceptional chef and a brand new tandoor.\u2022shantihome.com; 17 doubles; from \u00a375The perfect soft landing into India. Owners Martin and Annie have a profound knowledge of India and give the warmest welcome you could wish for \u2013 cool lime sodas on arrival, delicious food and conversation later. Their new bougainvillea-strewn, Lutyens-style farmhouse is an hour outside the craziness of Delhi. Each elegant bedroom opens onto a veranda running around a courtyard. In summer you can sleep on the charpois (rope-strung beds) in the wonderful gardens. Martin will walk you round his farmstead, where organic vegetables grow; they keep pigs and buffalos, too.\u2022 tiklibottom.com; two doubles, two twins; full-board from \u00a3150 The choice of setting for \"Sacred Five Trees\" is inspired and the 40 metre-long covered veranda is a place to sit and dream amid the sweet scents of jasmine and frangipani. Unfussy decorative touches \u2013 copper pots, bowls of floating flowers, cane lampshades \u2013 soothe, as do the views of the river, the buffalos grazing and the distant forest. Belgian by blood, Goa-born and convent-educated in Surrey and Mumbai, Lulu's approach to guests is wise and warm; nothing is too much trouble. Only traditional materials have been used: laterite stone, high wooden ceilings and tiled roofs. Bedrooms, each with a private balcony, wrap around an inner courtyard.\u2022 islaingoa.com; four doubles; full-board from \u00a3130Among the coconuts on the outskirts of Loutolim, one of Goa's prettiest villages, a Jodhpur-blue exterior and fairy lights cascading from the terracotta roof are the first signs that you're in for something different. Norman and Carole's 700-year-old house is a wonderland of colour, outstanding local and international art (much of it Cuban), richly embroidered Rajasthani upholstery and antiques. Complementary interests \u2013 for Norman, art and a snooker table; for Carole, her exceptional cooking and jewellery (for sale) \u2013 come together with a shared passion for their garden. Four serenely well-designed bedrooms the colour of jewels face out on to the pool.\u2022 casasusegadgoa.com; four doubles; from \u00a365Off the beaten track, up in north Goa, are two stylish villas with views that soar downriver. On arrival you are ushered to the terrace with a sundowner: lap up the luxuriant scene. The views from the infinity pool are more breathtaking still. Later, meander downhill for a barbecue under the stars. The rooms each have a sit-out space overseeing the river or the islands. There are simple bright linens and rugs on dark stone floors, and walk-in showers. Look forward to long days lazing by two pools, serenaded by wildlife and spoiled by staff. Join in yoga on the terrace or plan a trip to the beaches. Leave by speedboat \u2013 James Bond-style. Bliss.\u2022 casacolvale.com; 11 doubles; from \u00a390 If you have pottered up the mountainside in that splendid little train, filled with expectations of Shimla, you may have been underwhelmed by the town. Its glorious past and its parochial present are at odds. But Chapslee is a treat, undisturbed by mobiles, internet or TV. One of the oldest houses in town (1835), it was the summer residence of the late Raja Charanjit Singh of Kapurthala; the present owner is his grandson. The walls are festooned with swords and sabres, Raj-era paintings and embroideries. Bedrooms are immensely comfortable and the suite is spoilingly sumptuous. The sitting room is in hunting-lodge style; the garden is smothered in nasturtiums. It's more English than England, a flawless snapshot of another age.\u2022 chapslee.com; four doubles, one suite; half-board from \u00a3190Pull through gates, enter landscaped grounds, and be welcomed with a marigold garland by serene, white-robed staff. As you fill in a questionnaire about your mental and physical health, realisation dawns that this is no regular luxury hotel. Your stay is planned in terms of diet and treatments: Ayurvedic massage and exquisite food, meditation and a rejuvenating spa, pukka astanga and hatha yoga twice a day and, if you like, afternoons spent in the organic vegetable garden. Of course, you can come just to soak up the atmosphere and sunbathe by the pool.\u2022 shreyasretreat.com; three cottage suites, eight tents, one cottage for five; full-board \u00a3250. Yoga and sound meditation classes includedThere are two separate bungalows, one housing a single suite, the other two double rooms. Huge sliding screens give onto verandas with bamboo blinds and views across the shimmering lake. This must be one of the most heavenly spots in all Kerala. The thatched air-conditioned suite has a dining room, living room and two bathrooms \u2013 a super-cool retreat. The lovely pool is shared. Interiors are colourfully minimalist, typical of the ethos of Malabar House, a small chain of boutique properties, which renovates old Keralan buildings with sympathy.\u2022 malabarhouse.com; one suite for two from \u00a3230; cottage for two from \u00a3140 Laze by the pool, sip cocktails under the mango tree. This 300-year-old colonial building was the office of an English tea broker. Interiors are studded with bold local paintings, entertaining artefacts and simple antiques. The bedrooms have high ceilings, deep comfortable beds and big windows for cool breezes. Chic bathrooms in the cottages have open-to-the-sky showers. Windows overlook the ingenious Chinese fishing nets (ancient but still in use) or the courtyard garden with its fountain and pond full of lilies. Dinners of caught-that-day fish are a pleasure, but it is the staff that are the biggest delight.\u2022 oldharbourhotel.com; 10 doubles, three cottage suites; from \u00a395 A few years ago Christel and Jan swapped their busy hotel in Spa, Belgium, for this cluster of cottages on a palm-fringed beach. The bedrooms are large and lovely, airy and light; walls are washed in ochre; silk bedcovers are piled high with cushions in rich reds and oranges. The chef will whip up tasty local dishes for you any time. Cross the sandy garden, duck under the thatched porch and you're on the beach, which belongs to you and the fishermen alone. It's almost a relief to discover when you arrive that there's not a lot to do.\u2022 abeachsymphony.com; four cottages for two; from \u00a395. Child bed available Ahilya, perched high above the Narmada river where there's always a breeze, is an enchanting hotel. The building's pale stone floors, dark timbers and ancient shuttered doors have been exquisitely restored. Richard Holkar is the driving force behind Ahilya. His family were the kings of Indore, though the family is more westernised today. Thanks to the Holkar Trust, the hand weaving for which Maheshwar was once famous is again thriving \u2013 you may visit the handloom centre nearby. Tranquil bedrooms have finely woven fabrics and views. Have a buffet breakfast on the ramparts and dine on delectable home-grown food on the terrace.\u2022 ahilyafort.com; nine doubles, two twins, a single, two tents; full-board \u00a3140 Reception is a treehouse, with an open-air lounge/dining room/bar and a look-out with live footage of the camp's watering hole. Home, too, is five treehouses scattered across the grounds; each is authentic, romantic, spectacular and spacious. There are big open showers, tribal paintings, vibrant throws and doors that fold back to a big balcony with a sensational view. You are pretty much left to your own devices but open jeeps and experienced guides will ferry you into the reserve from 7.30am. Bandhavgarh, compact and teeming with wildlife, has the densest tiger population in India.\u2022 treehousehideaway.com; five treehouses for two; from \u00a3165 full-board Thirteen tents look out across a 100-year-old reservoir, home to more than 250 species of migratory birds, while antelope graze on the bank. Smartly contained within white canvas, bedrooms are furnished in elegant Rajput style, while bathrooms feature marble and slate. Toast and tea are delivered to your tent before breakfast, pillows are of softest down. All is exemplary, from lessons on village lore to surely the most delicious food in the region. Head to bed by torchlight \u2013 to discover hot water bottles tucked between the sheets.\u2022 chhatrasagar.com; 13 tents; from \u00a3230 full-board, with tax, jeep and birdwatching tour includedShahpura Bagh would look very different if ancestor Rajadhiraj Nahar Singh had not mortgaged the jewels to build earth dams and bring water to his people. There would be no pastures, mustard crops or evergreens. At the top of the house, bedrooms are served by light and cool walls and bathrooms with old claw-foot tubs. Eat together in the beautiful dining room. The hospitable family will entertain you with hilarious anecdotes of Rajasthan's most \"colourful characters\".\u2022 shahpurabagh.com; four doubles, six suites; from \u00a365The women of the dusty village still cook over open fires, as they did when brave Darbar Lal Singh ruled 300 years ago. Anirudh Rathore's restoration recalls the halcyon days of royal Rajasthan. Seated beneath the fabulous ceiling of the dining room, guarded by portraits of five generations, you can appreciate how this was the court where warriors met over matters of state. Disturbed only by distant prayer, you can float in the exquisite infinity pool. Why not play at being the movie star when, couched in velvet on a bullock cart, you progress through the village (not for the shy), to the great curiosity of the locals? Few travellers make it this far: a rare treat.\u2022  fortbarli.com ; six doubles, two suites; from \u00a375 Enjoy acres of wheat fields, twittering birds, gardens and hammocks swinging from shady fruit trees. The old house itself is elegantly light and cooled by the breeze. Old, rescued artefacts account for much of the furniture. A well-stocked gym and library will stretch different muscle groups before a candlelit dinner in the company of your warm, cultured hosts. Bhanwar and his wife are deeply eco-conscious, encouraging guests to share a car, employing and buying locally, composting. Even the pool, set among palms, is an irrigation resource.\u2022 savista.com; 13 doubles, three suites; from \u00a380English gardens, a terracotta bridge, 80s kitsch \u2013 yet this is still the real India, living with a family in what Mr and Mrs Singh love to call \"a cosy home from home\". It's right in the heart of romantic Udaipur and, from the terrific rooftop terrace, you can visually plan your day's itinerary, starting at the famous Fateh Sagar Lake. The furniture in the bedrooms takes you on a colour-coded journey, beginning with 200-year-old Rajasthan and tumbling into the present.\u2022  lakeviewvilla.in  ; four doubles, one suite; from \u00a323 A retired British doctor, a traveller and a talker with comedic flair, Chris has poured energy into creating his utopia; his staff wear the broadest smiles and the whole place sweeps you into a warm embrace. The house stands at the foot of a steep hill, huddled in a horseshoe of scrub hills with views from the pretty garden across the lake to the Western Ghats. Bedrooms are a picture of taste and restraint \u2013 tiled floors, white linen, solar-powered showers, fresh flowers on bedspreads. Chris is passionate about the environment and social responsibility, guided trips to the village support the local community.\u2022 cardamomhouse.com; six doubles, one suite; from \u00a340Husna-Tara has created a dream \u2013 effortlessly stylish and wickedly indulgent. In 1860, a Scottish tea company established the estate, enticed by the luxuriant hillsides and cool climes; today they supply Harrods. As perfect as the teas are the sundowners on the terrace and the immaculate lawns \u2013 and the bedroom suites are some of the loveliest in the world. Gaze from a wicker chair on inspirational views, dine by moonlight on exquisite foods. Camp out at a \"lodge\" near the river where sumptuous picnics are presented on linen. Tricky to reach but worth every rut and bounce.\u2022 glenburnteaestate.com; eight suites; from \u00a3230 full-board with activities, transfers and laundry included\u2022 Observer readers can buy a copy of Alastair Sawday's Special Places to Stay, India & Sri Lanka, which is published on Thursday, for \u00a37.19 (rrp \u00a311.99) plus \u00a32.99p&p. Visit sawdays.co.uk/bookshop and use the code INDIAOBSERVER or phone 01275 395431. Offer ends 31 October 2009", "tags": ["India holidays", "Hotels", "Delhi holidays", "Wildlife holidays", "Food and drink", "Travel", "Spa breaks"], "title": "20 fabulous boutique hotels in India"},{"date": "2009-09-23T08:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "There's no stranger figure on Indian television news at the moment than retired atomic scientist K Santhanam. One of the driving forces behind the country's weapons nuclear programme, Santhanam has gone rogue in the past few weeks, denouncing the timidity of Indian government's pursuit of the most powerful weapons ever devised.Santhanam wants the country to stop worrying and love the bomb. According to the scientist, India's nuclear tests conducted more than a decade ago were a dud. The country now stands \"naked\" before China \u2013 unable to deter the People's Liberation Army.The only solution, says Santhanam, is to defy world opinion and explode a massive thermonuclear device \u2013 in his words for India \"to cross the Rubicon\" by dropping its voluntary testing moratorium.This runs against the grain of current thinking, which envisages a shrinking of nuclear weapons. The old cold war mentality of mutually assured destruction and the idea of deterrence have been replaced with a call for a nuclear weapons-free world.This shift can be traced back to AQ Khan's atomic supermarket, run from Pakistan, which spread technologies to hostile regimes \u2013 with American indifference. The result is that a host of states from Iran to North Korea stand on the threshold of going nuclear.More worrying is an assessment that Pakistan's own nuclear weapons facilities have been attacked three times in two years by extremists. Al-Qaida openly says it wants the bomb to wage war on America.Nuclear weapons in such hands would make deterrence less effective and more hazardous. Little wonder that one of Barack Obama's key messages at the UN this week will be about global nuclear disarmament.The securitists in India have a different agenda. They see nuclear weapons as a route to respect. Santhanam is undoubtedly a hawk, one who has chafed against the restraints India faced since it refused in the 1960s to sign the nuclear non-proliferation treaty \u2013 Delhi said it was a version of nuclear apartheid.The NPT banned countries, apart from the five security council members, from owning atomic weapons and simultaneously benefiting from civilian trade in such technologies. The result was that India tried to build its nuclear weapons industry from scratch.India did get the bomb \u2013 exploding the Smiling Buddha in 1974 and 15 years later it tested five devices. The uber-nationalists say that India's home-grown nukes could be geared up for bigger things \u2013 citing Pakistan's expanding nuclear arsenal and China's vast armoury as reasons to explode bigger devices.There is an opportunity lurking in the rhetoric gap between Obama's speeches on disarmament and the implementation of such ideas. That opening, say hawks, could be filled by a series of massive Indian nuclear tests, which would deter Delhi's enemies and secure its stockpile \u2013 while the world frets about AQ Khan, Iran and North Korea.Bizarre as this might sound, Indian testing could be justified by the president's soaring idealism. Although Obama wants to Washington to ratify the comprehensive test ban treaty, it has yet to be passed by the Senate. As long as the US has not signed the treaty, Delhi's hawks reason, Washington can denounce Indian nuclear tests but the rest of the world is going to ask why senators have blocked the treaty for years.For a section of India's elite, the US's political gridlock is a boon. They point to China, which tested its arsenal until 1996 before signing up to the NPT and endorsing the CTBT. Why, runs the thinking, shouldn't India be allowed to do the same?It's a dangerous game. India has not signed the NPT or the CTBT. It has been a nuclear rogue state. Yet it was brought in from the cold last year by the international community and permitted to trade in nuclear technology despite not having signed the NPT.It is the only exception ever made for any state with nuclear weapons \u2013 a coup and recognition of its rising global status. France, Russia and the US have signed lucrative deals with India. Canada and Britain want in too. The world signalled that it wanted to turn swords into ploughshares \u2013 converting nuclear weapons know-how into nuclear energy know-how.A series of massive Indian nuclear tests would snatch defeat from the jaws of diplomatic victory. It might provide a short-cut to international status \u2013 but it would be one of a pariah. Questions would be raised about India's pursuit of intercontinental ballistic missiles, its plans for nuclear-powered submarines and its burgeoning space industry. It would rightfully be seen as a renegade act, sparking an arms race in Asia when the world least needed it.Should India test again, the country would once again be subject to sanctions and be seen as a nation engaged in a needless military build-up while its population languished in poverty. Ever-growing nuclear stockpiles are seen as a threat to the international order and a distraction from economic progress. For India to go nuclear all over again in a bigger, more deadly way would be a sign of weakness not strength.", "tags": ["India", "Nuclear weapons", "World news"], "title": "India must turn away from the bomb | Randeep Ramesh"},{"date": "2009-09-16T15:41:40Z", "country": "india", "content": "BP has signalled a further retreat from its international renewable business by selling off its wind operation in India today.The oil group, which recently shut down its alternative energy headquarters in London, said it would concentrate its wind interests in the US.BP has sold three operational windfarms in India for just under $100m (\u00a361m) to Green Infra Limited, an independent energy provider owned by private equity.The business controls a relatively modest 100MW of power in locations such as Maharashtra but has a vital foothold in one of the world's fastest-growing renewable markets.\"Following a strategic review in 2008, BP decided to concentrate its global wind development activities on the portfolio of onshore wind development projects and opportunities that it had built up across the US,\" it said in a prepared statement.The company will continue with its solar joint venture in India and has no intention of selling any of its petroleum-related businesses there.BP employs over 1,500 staff in India and says it is continuing to \"actively explore new opportunities and long-term material growth options\" for its Castrol automotive lubricants and other sectors.The company was recently awarded operation of a deepwater oil exploration block in the Krishna-Godavari basin off the east coast of India.It says it remains committed to its Tata BP Solar joint venture which is a leading manufacturer and supplier of photovoltaic power systems.But since Tony Hayward took the helm at BP from John Browne in the spring of 2007, critics have detected a marked retreat on the renewables front.There has also been a move into more carbon-intensive activities such as tar sands.But Hayward and BP deny any major change of direction, insisting that the company is just marshalling its resources better in an economic downturn.They point out that over the past three years, BP has built a wind business in the US with interests in over 1,000MW of installed gross generating capacity and more than 1,000MW gross capacity at an advanced stage of development. In total, BP's US wind energy portfolio contains almost 100 projects, with a total potential generating capacity of up to 20,000MW.Critics of the company's record on renewable energy point to the decision to close the independent London office of BP Alternative Energy and the exit of managing director, Vivienne Cox in June. In April, BP axed 620 jobs from its solar power business, closing two plants in Spain and phasing out module assembly at one in the US. There has also been confirmation that the 2009 budget for the clean energy division will be cut from $1.4bn (\u00a3850m) to anywhere between $1bn and $500m but the company has insisted that its original spending target of $8bn by 2015 remains on track.", "tags": ["Wind power", "Renewable energy", "Energy", "India", "World news", "BP", "Business", "Utilities", "Oil", "Oil", "Energy industry"], "title": "BP sells windfarm operation in India"},{"date": "2009-09-14T08:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "My name is Sharda and I'm 16. I live in one of India's poorest states of Uttar Pradesh in a low-income group family. My father, who was a post office clerk, committed suicide five years ago by jumping into a well because he couldn't cope with the pressure of providing for our family of seven \u2013 my mother and my five siblings. Since then, my mother has been struggling to make ends meet with my dad's pension and a small tailoring business she runs from home. When my father was alive, we used to live in our own house. But after his demise, we moved in with my uncle into his big house in the neighborhood. My mother initially refused to live at my uncle's \u2013 her brother \u2013 but the temptation to save rent made her relent. I studied up to grade 10 but had to give up my studies after my father's death. I have to contribute to the family income and take care of my younger siblings. I help mum stitch clothes and deliver them to the houses in the neighborhood. I'm particularly good at embroidery and help mum with this craft because she has a problem coping with the intricacies of needlework due to her failing eyesight.My uncle is a prosperous businessman and a widower. He has three sons, all in their 20s, who help him run three grocery stores. Apart from tailoring, my mum also does housekeeping for my uncle in lieu of rent. It's a big house \u2013 with seven rooms -- and we occupy the outhouse. But my uncle is kind. He lets us use his kitchen, fridge and watch TV on occasions. One day, while we were all watching TV, I noticed that my youngest cousin had his eyes glued to me rather than the television screen. This continued for many days. One day I asked him what his problem was, to which he replied that he found me very attractive and would like to marry me one day. I told him he was nuts as Hindu culture doesn't permit marriage between first cousins. But he was adamant and started wooing me with fervour. He clandestinely started getting chocolates and sweets for me from his grocery store. Initially, I refused to accept the goodies but when he persisted, I gave in \u2013 these were, after all, luxuries that I could not afford. Gradually, I started enjoying his attention and even began to like him. He promised that he would treat me like a queen after marriage, take me around in his fancy car and we'd travel across the world. How charming was the imaginary world my cousin had created for me. And, like a fool, I truly fell for it. One day, he came early to the house from the store and asked me out. He said his friend was throwing a big birthday bash and had invited the two of us. I was thrilled at the prospect of attending a party. I lied to my mother about needing new needles for embroidery and ran off with my cousin to the party venue. Except that there was no party. My cousin had tricked me into coming out with him and took me to a hotel where we spent a couple of hours.Life was never the same for me after that. A few weeks later I panicked when I found out I was pregnant. When I told my cousin about it, he told me to relax. He assured me that he'll search on the internet for a remedy and he also warned me not to disclose news of the pregnancy to the rest of the family. After consulting the internet, my cousin advised me to take an emergency contraceptive pill which he said, \"will make the baby vanish\".As I had no education in these matters, I popped the pill. But much to my horror, I discovered weeks later that I was still pregnant. I told my cousin about this problem and asked him to marry me. The jerk refused, saying that would all happen in good time, but first I must get the baby aborted. I was aghast. Telling my mum about the havoc in my life was not an option as she would have killed me. So I went along with my cousin to a local quack who promised us anonymity. The baby was quietly dropped.I feel my whole world has collapsed around me. My lack of education in matters related to sex have brought me to such a sorry pass. Teachers never bothered tackling this topic in school, while Indian parents are most hesitant to give sex-related advise to their kids. I know I'm not alone in my predicament \u2013 there are hordes of ill-educated girls like me in India. I'm so miserable that I sometimes contemplate suicide. The only thing that holds me back are thoughts about my hapless mother. I'm petrified of my future. At the moment, I feel I don't have one.", "tags": ["India", "Abortion", "Health", "Women"], "title": "The rise of emergency contraception in India"},{"date": "2009-09-10T08:28:34Z", "country": "india", "content": "Five children have been killed and more than 20 injured in a stampede at a school in north-east Delhi, according to hospital officials.The stampede left at least five dead and another 24 were hurt, according to the hospital where the injured have been taken. The Press Trust of India (PTI) news agency reported that 27 pupils were injured.The stampede was triggered by rumours of an electrical current passing through the building after a short-circuit in the school, the PTI reported.Five of those injured in the incident were in critical condition in Guru Tegh Bahadur hospital, said medical superintendent OP Kalra.The stampede occurred as the pupils, aged eight to 16, arrived for an exam, Kalra told reporters.Joint commissioner of the New Delhi police, Dharmendra Kumar, told the PTI: \"There was a stampede as some of the children on the first floor were asked to come down and others were asked to go up and apparently the staircase was very narrow. Most of the children got stuck there.\"The PTI reported that the five dead pupils were girls, as were 26 of the 27 children it reported as injured.", "tags": ["India", "Schools", "World news", "Education"], "title": "India school stampede kills pupils"},{"date": "2009-07-01T10:45:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The Indian gay and lesbian community may have been told not to get their hopes up about the government decriminalising homosexuality, but the fact that talks have even begun this week to discuss repealing section 377 of the Indian Penal Code, should be cause to celebrate. In India, homosexuality is illegal and carries a life sentence. But while fierce opposition has predictably come from extreme Hindu and Muslim religious parties such as the Vishwa Hindu Parishad and Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind, who claim it would bring \"sexual anarchy\" and \"spread diseases\", it can only be a matter of time until change arrives. After all, even Nepal lifted its ban in 2007.Apart from the fact that India is trying to rebrand itself as a superpower and distance itself from its neighbour Pakistan (which also bans homosexuality), the gay revolution is already under way, whether or not the judicial system likes it. Gay Pride parades took place in India's major cities last Sunday for the second successful year in a row, from which a poignant image emerged that encapsulated the years of struggle and hope for the future of India's gay community. Two elderly Indian women, one resting her head on the other's shoulders, carried banners declaring their love for each other. Doesn't sound like a big deal? In Hindi, to quote Deepa Mehta's groundbreaking lesbian film Fire, there isn't even a word for lesbian. It doesn't exist in Indian society, according to those in power \u2013 it cannot exist.Well, it does. And due to the intolerance meted out by sections of Indian society, there are an incredible number of gay men and women who have found themselves in loveless marriages, arranged or otherwise forced by whispering relatives to deny their very selves. This intolerance has passed by osmosis to the British Asian community over here. As someone who used to write for UkGay.com to highlight British Asian gay and lesbian issues and increase their visibility in the press, I think very little has changed over the past few years with regards to community attitudes. Worryingly, a 2007 survey by the BBC Asian Network showed that a whopping 44% of British Asian youngsters felt homosexuality was immoral.While this is disheartening, change in attitude on both sides might be helped along from an unlikely quarter \u2013 Bollywood. Films over recent years have in one way or another touched upon gay issues. The most relevant was Fashion, released this year, which had a sub-plot in which a gay male fashion designer married his female friend to keep his mother happy. Perhaps it would help if India's gay celebrities actually came out to champion the cause, but for now they've only got Prince Manvendra from Gujarati royalty, who came out in 2007 and appeared on the ghastly BBC show The Undercover Princes to find love in Brighton's gay bars.For now India's gay community takes its strength from its tireless activists and a flourishing clubbing scene, as does its British Asian counterpart. Whether India's government repeals section 377 or not, the fact that sections of the country are once again having this debate surely means we're getting a step closer.", "tags": ["India", "LGBT rights", "World news"], "title": "Gay days for India | Poorna Shetty"},{"date": "2009-07-28T15:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Last weekend, it was reported that India had denied a visa to Rebiya Kadeer, the ostensible leader in exile of China's minority Uighur community, who China accuses of masterminding recent unrest in its western province of Xinjiang. Many Indian strategists applauded the decision \u2013 only for the Uighur Human Rights Project to later deny the reports. New Delhi, the strategists argued, had little to gain from riling Beijing and even less to gain from adding to Kadeer's travel itinerary, a global junket aimed at building sympathy for the plight of the Uighurs. The Turkic, predominantly Muslim Uighurs made headlines this summer after riots and state repression shook Xinjiang. India's interests, some say, would be best served by staying out of the mess altogether.After all, a visit from Kadeer would, it seems, only cause grief for her would-be hosts. Her impending attendance at the Melbourne International Film Festival in Australia prompted Chinese directors to withdraw their films and Chinese hackers to attack the festival's website. In a furious diplomatic spat, Beijing slammed Japan's decision to grant her a visa. And Chinese officials threatened Ankara over the Turkish prime minister's promise to allow Kadeer into Turkey.This certainly isn't the first (nor will it be the last) time a state has put pressure on other countries to curtail the movement of controversial individuals. But what we should find distressing is the extent to which countries have allowed their own affairs to be dictated by China's propaganda campaign. Kadeer is supported by American money, but she is not a \"terrorist\" (as China insists on dubbing her and her allies), nor is she capable of orchestrating the unrest in Xinjiang (as China claims she did). Instead, China has turned this woman \u2013 who I had the pleasure of meeting briefly when she visited openDemocracy's offices a few years ago \u2013 into a straw-man, directing domestic outrage against her while distracting attention from the real anger, real frustration and real grievances of the Uighurs.Indians should feel disappointed by the idea that their country would placate China's officials and legions of \"netizens\". In so many ways, India is strikingly different from its fellow Asian giant. India is a democracy, bubbling with debate and dissent. It is a truly plural country, uniting dozens of languages, thousands of dialects, numerous religions and ethnicities. It is no stranger to ethnic violence and secessionism, but it has managed to accommodate most of these outbreaks through the democratic process and under the wide roof of Indian identity. No Indian leader could now speak as Chinese president Hu Jintao did yesterday when, in archaic terms, he called for the \"revival of the great Chinese race\".But like China, India has settled upon a more functional vision of foreign policy in the 21st century. In the wake of the cold war and the stumbles of American power, both New Delhi and Beijing believe in building a \"multipolar world order\", in which many more countries can be stakeholders in an international system defined by negotiation and respect of national sovereignty. Such a system may be more global and representative, but it provides little scope for any kind of judgment and policy beyond the strategic.Fifty years ago, India welcomed the Dalai Lama and the Tibetan leadership as they fled the guns and tanks of the Chinese army. Up to the 1990s, India supported Aung San Suu Kyi's democratic movement in Chinese-backed Burma, when western governments had little interest in her struggle (let's not forget that the west also had \u2013 and continues to have \u2013 a great predilection for expedient, morally blind foreign policy). Indian policymakers remember that these decisions had real strategic consequences, including a disastrous war with China in 1962 and the loss of influence on its eastern border. For India to deny Kadeer a visa would stem from a more cautious political calculus. But would also suggests that India accepts the rules of Chinese geopolitics: power \u2013 never ideals \u2013 is the ultimate arbiter of action and compromise.", "tags": ["India", "China", "Rebiya Kadeer", "Human rights", "Race issues", "World news", "Law", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "India, don't kowtow to China | Kanishk Tharoor"},{"date": "2009-09-26T23:07:26Z", "country": "india", "content": "When travelling in a country as richly alien as India, it is tempting and almost forgivable to reach for the familiar. The unwary retreat to large, Western-style hotels where they are safe but dissatisfied (and also \u2013 misguidedly \u2013 convinced they are safe from water-borne diseases.)Yet the solutions are there. All over India people have opened their homes or created small hotels where you feel safely part of the country. But the word \"hotel'' does little justice to this fabulous mix. There are, in our latest guide alone, treehouses, villas, camps, palaces, cottages, bungalows and forts \u2013 up mountains and rivers, in cities and in the countryside. The variety is almost bewildering. Adopt any role you wish: collector of human experience, idler, yoga disciple, massagee, meditator, adventurer, aimless wanderer, self-improver, design buff \u2013 India can absorb all your fantasies and offer a thousand more.Above all, India is utterly itself. It is so diverse that the footprints of other cultures quickly fade or take on an Indian hue. That is a considerable strength, and you, too, if you step off the path to meet the people to whom these places belong, will be changed. Each place gives you India on its own plate \u2013 a treat for every type of traveller.Before you march headlong into the full Indian experience, unwind in this city oasis with an acre of garden. The Manor, designed by a Japanese architect, started life in the 1950s as a jungle-fringed hotel; now it finds itself in the city's smartest suburb. With far more character than many other luxury addresses, it exudes a minimalism that is never austere: lovely wall hangings in the corridors, stunning mosaic floors. The delicious food is Indian or fusion and the tranquil garden is a sweet spot for a fresh lime soda. Try a morning yoga or a rejuvenating massage \u2013 a 15-minute taster is included in the price.\u2022 themanordelhi.com; 15 double rooms from Rs7,500 (\u00a395). All prices in this article are for a double or twin room per night Step into the air-conditioned cool marble reception \u2013 delicious! Immediately you are made to feel at home, in among the big sandstone Jaisalmer fresco and the chairs crafted from Rajasthani ox carts. Owners Rajat and Sanjana can organise anything you come up with. Every peaceful bedroom is special in its own way \u2013 a gold-plated elephant head-dress or a Bollywood poster, a small balcony, a swish wet room. There's a spa and a rooftop restaurant with views east over suburbs and trees. A five-course menu flows from the kitchen, with an exceptional chef and a brand new tandoor.\u2022shantihome.com; 17 doubles; from \u00a375The perfect soft landing into India. Owners Martin and Annie have a profound knowledge of India and give the warmest welcome you could wish for \u2013 cool lime sodas on arrival, delicious food and conversation later. Their new bougainvillea-strewn, Lutyens-style farmhouse is an hour outside the craziness of Delhi. Each elegant bedroom opens onto a veranda running around a courtyard. In summer you can sleep on the charpois (rope-strung beds) in the wonderful gardens. Martin will walk you round his farmstead, where organic vegetables grow; they keep pigs and buffalos, too.\u2022 tiklibottom.com; two doubles, two twins; full-board from \u00a3150 The choice of setting for \"Sacred Five Trees\" is inspired and the 40 metre-long covered veranda is a place to sit and dream amid the sweet scents of jasmine and frangipani. Unfussy decorative touches \u2013 copper pots, bowls of floating flowers, cane lampshades \u2013 soothe, as do the views of the river, the buffalos grazing and the distant forest. Belgian by blood, Goa-born and convent-educated in Surrey and Mumbai, Lulu's approach to guests is wise and warm; nothing is too much trouble. Only traditional materials have been used: laterite stone, high wooden ceilings and tiled roofs. Bedrooms, each with a private balcony, wrap around an inner courtyard.\u2022 islaingoa.com; four doubles; full-board from \u00a3130Among the coconuts on the outskirts of Loutolim, one of Goa's prettiest villages, a Jodhpur-blue exterior and fairy lights cascading from the terracotta roof are the first signs that you're in for something different. Norman and Carole's 700-year-old house is a wonderland of colour, outstanding local and international art (much of it Cuban), richly embroidered Rajasthani upholstery and antiques. Complementary interests \u2013 for Norman, art and a snooker table; for Carole, her exceptional cooking and jewellery (for sale) \u2013 come together with a shared passion for their garden. Four serenely well-designed bedrooms the colour of jewels face out on to the pool.\u2022 casasusegadgoa.com; four doubles; from \u00a365Off the beaten track, up in north Goa, are two stylish villas with views that soar downriver. On arrival you are ushered to the terrace with a sundowner: lap up the luxuriant scene. The views from the infinity pool are more breathtaking still. Later, meander downhill for a barbecue under the stars. The rooms each have a sit-out space overseeing the river or the islands. There are simple bright linens and rugs on dark stone floors, and walk-in showers. Look forward to long days lazing by two pools, serenaded by wildlife and spoiled by staff. Join in yoga on the terrace or plan a trip to the beaches. Leave by speedboat \u2013 James Bond-style. Bliss.\u2022 casacolvale.com; 11 doubles; from \u00a390 If you have pottered up the mountainside in that splendid little train, filled with expectations of Shimla, you may have been underwhelmed by the town. Its glorious past and its parochial present are at odds. But Chapslee is a treat, undisturbed by mobiles, internet or TV. One of the oldest houses in town (1835), it was the summer residence of the late Raja Charanjit Singh of Kapurthala; the present owner is his grandson. The walls are festooned with swords and sabres, Raj-era paintings and embroideries. Bedrooms are immensely comfortable and the suite is spoilingly sumptuous. The sitting room is in hunting-lodge style; the garden is smothered in nasturtiums. It's more English than England, a flawless snapshot of another age.\u2022 chapslee.com; four doubles, one suite; half-board from \u00a3190Pull through gates, enter landscaped grounds, and be welcomed with a marigold garland by serene, white-robed staff. As you fill in a questionnaire about your mental and physical health, realisation dawns that this is no regular luxury hotel. Your stay is planned in terms of diet and treatments: Ayurvedic massage and exquisite food, meditation and a rejuvenating spa, pukka astanga and hatha yoga twice a day and, if you like, afternoons spent in the organic vegetable garden. Of course, you can come just to soak up the atmosphere and sunbathe by the pool.\u2022 shreyasretreat.com; three cottage suites, eight tents, one cottage for five; full-board \u00a3250. Yoga and sound meditation classes includedThere are two separate bungalows, one housing a single suite, the other two double rooms. Huge sliding screens give onto verandas with bamboo blinds and views across the shimmering lake. This must be one of the most heavenly spots in all Kerala. The thatched air-conditioned suite has a dining room, living room and two bathrooms \u2013 a super-cool retreat. The lovely pool is shared. Interiors are colourfully minimalist, typical of the ethos of Malabar House, a small chain of boutique properties, which renovates old Keralan buildings with sympathy.\u2022 malabarhouse.com; one suite for two from \u00a3230; cottage for two from \u00a3140 Laze by the pool, sip cocktails under the mango tree. This 300-year-old colonial building was the office of an English tea broker. Interiors are studded with bold local paintings, entertaining artefacts and simple antiques. The bedrooms have high ceilings, deep comfortable beds and big windows for cool breezes. Chic bathrooms in the cottages have open-to-the-sky showers. Windows overlook the ingenious Chinese fishing nets (ancient but still in use) or the courtyard garden with its fountain and pond full of lilies. Dinners of caught-that-day fish are a pleasure, but it is the staff that are the biggest delight.\u2022 oldharbourhotel.com; 10 doubles, three cottage suites; from \u00a395 A few years ago Christel and Jan swapped their busy hotel in Spa, Belgium, for this cluster of cottages on a palm-fringed beach. The bedrooms are large and lovely, airy and light; walls are washed in ochre; silk bedcovers are piled high with cushions in rich reds and oranges. The chef will whip up tasty local dishes for you any time. Cross the sandy garden, duck under the thatched porch and you're on the beach, which belongs to you and the fishermen alone. It's almost a relief to discover when you arrive that there's not a lot to do.\u2022 abeachsymphony.com; four cottages for two; from \u00a395. Child bed available Ahilya, perched high above the Narmada river where there's always a breeze, is an enchanting hotel. The building's pale stone floors, dark timbers and ancient shuttered doors have been exquisitely restored. Richard Holkar is the driving force behind Ahilya. His family were the kings of Indore, though the family is more westernised today. Thanks to the Holkar Trust, the hand weaving for which Maheshwar was once famous is again thriving \u2013 you may visit the handloom centre nearby. Tranquil bedrooms have finely woven fabrics and views. Have a buffet breakfast on the ramparts and dine on delectable home-grown food on the terrace.\u2022 ahilyafort.com; nine doubles, two twins, a single, two tents; full-board \u00a3140 Reception is a treehouse, with an open-air lounge/dining room/bar and a look-out with live footage of the camp's watering hole. Home, too, is five treehouses scattered across the grounds; each is authentic, romantic, spectacular and spacious. There are big open showers, tribal paintings, vibrant throws and doors that fold back to a big balcony with a sensational view. You are pretty much left to your own devices but open jeeps and experienced guides will ferry you into the reserve from 7.30am. Bandhavgarh, compact and teeming with wildlife, has the densest tiger population in India.\u2022 treehousehideaway.com; five treehouses for two; from \u00a3165 full-board Thirteen tents look out across a 100-year-old reservoir, home to more than 250 species of migratory birds, while antelope graze on the bank. Smartly contained within white canvas, bedrooms are furnished in elegant Rajput style, while bathrooms feature marble and slate. Toast and tea are delivered to your tent before breakfast, pillows are of softest down. All is exemplary, from lessons on village lore to surely the most delicious food in the region. Head to bed by torchlight \u2013 to discover hot water bottles tucked between the sheets.\u2022 chhatrasagar.com; 13 tents; from \u00a3230 full-board, with tax, jeep and birdwatching tour includedShahpura Bagh would look very different if ancestor Rajadhiraj Nahar Singh had not mortgaged the jewels to build earth dams and bring water to his people. There would be no pastures, mustard crops or evergreens. At the top of the house, bedrooms are served by light and cool walls and bathrooms with old claw-foot tubs. Eat together in the beautiful dining room. The hospitable family will entertain you with hilarious anecdotes of Rajasthan's most \"colourful characters\".\u2022 shahpurabagh.com; four doubles, six suites; from \u00a365The women of the dusty village still cook over open fires, as they did when brave Darbar Lal Singh ruled 300 years ago. Anirudh Rathore's restoration recalls the halcyon days of royal Rajasthan. Seated beneath the fabulous ceiling of the dining room, guarded by portraits of five generations, you can appreciate how this was the court where warriors met over matters of state. Disturbed only by distant prayer, you can float in the exquisite infinity pool. Why not play at being the movie star when, couched in velvet on a bullock cart, you progress through the village (not for the shy), to the great curiosity of the locals? Few travellers make it this far: a rare treat.\u2022  fortbarli.com ; six doubles, two suites; from \u00a375 Enjoy acres of wheat fields, twittering birds, gardens and hammocks swinging from shady fruit trees. The old house itself is elegantly light and cooled by the breeze. Old, rescued artefacts account for much of the furniture. A well-stocked gym and library will stretch different muscle groups before a candlelit dinner in the company of your warm, cultured hosts. Bhanwar and his wife are deeply eco-conscious, encouraging guests to share a car, employing and buying locally, composting. Even the pool, set among palms, is an irrigation resource.\u2022 savista.com; 13 doubles, three suites; from \u00a380English gardens, a terracotta bridge, 80s kitsch \u2013 yet this is still the real India, living with a family in what Mr and Mrs Singh love to call \"a cosy home from home\". It's right in the heart of romantic Udaipur and, from the terrific rooftop terrace, you can visually plan your day's itinerary, starting at the famous Fateh Sagar Lake. The furniture in the bedrooms takes you on a colour-coded journey, beginning with 200-year-old Rajasthan and tumbling into the present.\u2022  lakeviewvilla.in  ; four doubles, one suite; from \u00a323 A retired British doctor, a traveller and a talker with comedic flair, Chris has poured energy into creating his utopia; his staff wear the broadest smiles and the whole place sweeps you into a warm embrace. The house stands at the foot of a steep hill, huddled in a horseshoe of scrub hills with views from the pretty garden across the lake to the Western Ghats. Bedrooms are a picture of taste and restraint \u2013 tiled floors, white linen, solar-powered showers, fresh flowers on bedspreads. Chris is passionate about the environment and social responsibility, guided trips to the village support the local community.\u2022 cardamomhouse.com; six doubles, one suite; from \u00a340Husna-Tara has created a dream \u2013 effortlessly stylish and wickedly indulgent. In 1860, a Scottish tea company established the estate, enticed by the luxuriant hillsides and cool climes; today they supply Harrods. As perfect as the teas are the sundowners on the terrace and the immaculate lawns \u2013 and the bedroom suites are some of the loveliest in the world. Gaze from a wicker chair on inspirational views, dine by moonlight on exquisite foods. Camp out at a \"lodge\" near the river where sumptuous picnics are presented on linen. Tricky to reach but worth every rut and bounce.\u2022 glenburnteaestate.com; eight suites; from \u00a3230 full-board with activities, transfers and laundry included\u2022 Observer readers can buy a copy of Alastair Sawday's Special Places to Stay, India & Sri Lanka, which is published on Thursday, for \u00a37.19 (rrp \u00a311.99) plus \u00a32.99p&p. Visit sawdays.co.uk/bookshop and use the code INDIAOBSERVER or phone 01275 395431. Offer ends 31 October 2009", "tags": ["India holidays", "Hotels", "Delhi holidays", "Wildlife holidays", "Food and drink", "Travel", "Spa breaks"], "title": "20 fabulous boutique hotels in India"},{"date": "2009-09-23T08:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "There's no stranger figure on Indian television news at the moment than retired atomic scientist K Santhanam. One of the driving forces behind the country's weapons nuclear programme, Santhanam has gone rogue in the past few weeks, denouncing the timidity of Indian government's pursuit of the most powerful weapons ever devised.Santhanam wants the country to stop worrying and love the bomb. According to the scientist, India's nuclear tests conducted more than a decade ago were a dud. The country now stands \"naked\" before China \u2013 unable to deter the People's Liberation Army.The only solution, says Santhanam, is to defy world opinion and explode a massive thermonuclear device \u2013 in his words for India \"to cross the Rubicon\" by dropping its voluntary testing moratorium.This runs against the grain of current thinking, which envisages a shrinking of nuclear weapons. The old cold war mentality of mutually assured destruction and the idea of deterrence have been replaced with a call for a nuclear weapons-free world.This shift can be traced back to AQ Khan's atomic supermarket, run from Pakistan, which spread technologies to hostile regimes \u2013 with American indifference. The result is that a host of states from Iran to North Korea stand on the threshold of going nuclear.More worrying is an assessment that Pakistan's own nuclear weapons facilities have been attacked three times in two years by extremists. Al-Qaida openly says it wants the bomb to wage war on America.Nuclear weapons in such hands would make deterrence less effective and more hazardous. Little wonder that one of Barack Obama's key messages at the UN this week will be about global nuclear disarmament.The securitists in India have a different agenda. They see nuclear weapons as a route to respect. Santhanam is undoubtedly a hawk, one who has chafed against the restraints India faced since it refused in the 1960s to sign the nuclear non-proliferation treaty \u2013 Delhi said it was a version of nuclear apartheid.The NPT banned countries, apart from the five security council members, from owning atomic weapons and simultaneously benefiting from civilian trade in such technologies. The result was that India tried to build its nuclear weapons industry from scratch.India did get the bomb \u2013 exploding the Smiling Buddha in 1974 and 15 years later it tested five devices. The uber-nationalists say that India's home-grown nukes could be geared up for bigger things \u2013 citing Pakistan's expanding nuclear arsenal and China's vast armoury as reasons to explode bigger devices.There is an opportunity lurking in the rhetoric gap between Obama's speeches on disarmament and the implementation of such ideas. That opening, say hawks, could be filled by a series of massive Indian nuclear tests, which would deter Delhi's enemies and secure its stockpile \u2013 while the world frets about AQ Khan, Iran and North Korea.Bizarre as this might sound, Indian testing could be justified by the president's soaring idealism. Although Obama wants to Washington to ratify the comprehensive test ban treaty, it has yet to be passed by the Senate. As long as the US has not signed the treaty, Delhi's hawks reason, Washington can denounce Indian nuclear tests but the rest of the world is going to ask why senators have blocked the treaty for years.For a section of India's elite, the US's political gridlock is a boon. They point to China, which tested its arsenal until 1996 before signing up to the NPT and endorsing the CTBT. Why, runs the thinking, shouldn't India be allowed to do the same?It's a dangerous game. India has not signed the NPT or the CTBT. It has been a nuclear rogue state. Yet it was brought in from the cold last year by the international community and permitted to trade in nuclear technology despite not having signed the NPT.It is the only exception ever made for any state with nuclear weapons \u2013 a coup and recognition of its rising global status. France, Russia and the US have signed lucrative deals with India. Canada and Britain want in too. The world signalled that it wanted to turn swords into ploughshares \u2013 converting nuclear weapons know-how into nuclear energy know-how.A series of massive Indian nuclear tests would snatch defeat from the jaws of diplomatic victory. It might provide a short-cut to international status \u2013 but it would be one of a pariah. Questions would be raised about India's pursuit of intercontinental ballistic missiles, its plans for nuclear-powered submarines and its burgeoning space industry. It would rightfully be seen as a renegade act, sparking an arms race in Asia when the world least needed it.Should India test again, the country would once again be subject to sanctions and be seen as a nation engaged in a needless military build-up while its population languished in poverty. Ever-growing nuclear stockpiles are seen as a threat to the international order and a distraction from economic progress. For India to go nuclear all over again in a bigger, more deadly way would be a sign of weakness not strength.", "tags": ["India", "Nuclear weapons", "World news"], "title": "India must turn away from the bomb | Randeep Ramesh"},{"date": "2009-09-16T15:41:40Z", "country": "india", "content": "BP has signalled a further retreat from its international renewable business by selling off its wind operation in India today.The oil group, which recently shut down its alternative energy headquarters in London, said it would concentrate its wind interests in the US.BP has sold three operational windfarms in India for just under $100m (\u00a361m) to Green Infra Limited, an independent energy provider owned by private equity.The business controls a relatively modest 100MW of power in locations such as Maharashtra but has a vital foothold in one of the world's fastest-growing renewable markets.\"Following a strategic review in 2008, BP decided to concentrate its global wind development activities on the portfolio of onshore wind development projects and opportunities that it had built up across the US,\" it said in a prepared statement.The company will continue with its solar joint venture in India and has no intention of selling any of its petroleum-related businesses there.BP employs over 1,500 staff in India and says it is continuing to \"actively explore new opportunities and long-term material growth options\" for its Castrol automotive lubricants and other sectors.The company was recently awarded operation of a deepwater oil exploration block in the Krishna-Godavari basin off the east coast of India.It says it remains committed to its Tata BP Solar joint venture which is a leading manufacturer and supplier of photovoltaic power systems.But since Tony Hayward took the helm at BP from John Browne in the spring of 2007, critics have detected a marked retreat on the renewables front.There has also been a move into more carbon-intensive activities such as tar sands.But Hayward and BP deny any major change of direction, insisting that the company is just marshalling its resources better in an economic downturn.They point out that over the past three years, BP has built a wind business in the US with interests in over 1,000MW of installed gross generating capacity and more than 1,000MW gross capacity at an advanced stage of development. In total, BP's US wind energy portfolio contains almost 100 projects, with a total potential generating capacity of up to 20,000MW.Critics of the company's record on renewable energy point to the decision to close the independent London office of BP Alternative Energy and the exit of managing director, Vivienne Cox in June. In April, BP axed 620 jobs from its solar power business, closing two plants in Spain and phasing out module assembly at one in the US. There has also been confirmation that the 2009 budget for the clean energy division will be cut from $1.4bn (\u00a3850m) to anywhere between $1bn and $500m but the company has insisted that its original spending target of $8bn by 2015 remains on track.", "tags": ["Wind power", "Renewable energy", "Energy", "India", "World news", "BP", "Business", "Utilities", "Oil", "Oil", "Energy industry"], "title": "BP sells windfarm operation in India"},{"date": "2009-09-14T08:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "My name is Sharda and I'm 16. I live in one of India's poorest states of Uttar Pradesh in a low-income group family. My father, who was a post office clerk, committed suicide five years ago by jumping into a well because he couldn't cope with the pressure of providing for our family of seven \u2013 my mother and my five siblings. Since then, my mother has been struggling to make ends meet with my dad's pension and a small tailoring business she runs from home. When my father was alive, we used to live in our own house. But after his demise, we moved in with my uncle into his big house in the neighborhood. My mother initially refused to live at my uncle's \u2013 her brother \u2013 but the temptation to save rent made her relent. I studied up to grade 10 but had to give up my studies after my father's death. I have to contribute to the family income and take care of my younger siblings. I help mum stitch clothes and deliver them to the houses in the neighborhood. I'm particularly good at embroidery and help mum with this craft because she has a problem coping with the intricacies of needlework due to her failing eyesight.My uncle is a prosperous businessman and a widower. He has three sons, all in their 20s, who help him run three grocery stores. Apart from tailoring, my mum also does housekeeping for my uncle in lieu of rent. It's a big house \u2013 with seven rooms -- and we occupy the outhouse. But my uncle is kind. He lets us use his kitchen, fridge and watch TV on occasions. One day, while we were all watching TV, I noticed that my youngest cousin had his eyes glued to me rather than the television screen. This continued for many days. One day I asked him what his problem was, to which he replied that he found me very attractive and would like to marry me one day. I told him he was nuts as Hindu culture doesn't permit marriage between first cousins. But he was adamant and started wooing me with fervour. He clandestinely started getting chocolates and sweets for me from his grocery store. Initially, I refused to accept the goodies but when he persisted, I gave in \u2013 these were, after all, luxuries that I could not afford. Gradually, I started enjoying his attention and even began to like him. He promised that he would treat me like a queen after marriage, take me around in his fancy car and we'd travel across the world. How charming was the imaginary world my cousin had created for me. And, like a fool, I truly fell for it. One day, he came early to the house from the store and asked me out. He said his friend was throwing a big birthday bash and had invited the two of us. I was thrilled at the prospect of attending a party. I lied to my mother about needing new needles for embroidery and ran off with my cousin to the party venue. Except that there was no party. My cousin had tricked me into coming out with him and took me to a hotel where we spent a couple of hours.Life was never the same for me after that. A few weeks later I panicked when I found out I was pregnant. When I told my cousin about it, he told me to relax. He assured me that he'll search on the internet for a remedy and he also warned me not to disclose news of the pregnancy to the rest of the family. After consulting the internet, my cousin advised me to take an emergency contraceptive pill which he said, \"will make the baby vanish\".As I had no education in these matters, I popped the pill. But much to my horror, I discovered weeks later that I was still pregnant. I told my cousin about this problem and asked him to marry me. The jerk refused, saying that would all happen in good time, but first I must get the baby aborted. I was aghast. Telling my mum about the havoc in my life was not an option as she would have killed me. So I went along with my cousin to a local quack who promised us anonymity. The baby was quietly dropped.I feel my whole world has collapsed around me. My lack of education in matters related to sex have brought me to such a sorry pass. Teachers never bothered tackling this topic in school, while Indian parents are most hesitant to give sex-related advise to their kids. I know I'm not alone in my predicament \u2013 there are hordes of ill-educated girls like me in India. I'm so miserable that I sometimes contemplate suicide. The only thing that holds me back are thoughts about my hapless mother. I'm petrified of my future. At the moment, I feel I don't have one.", "tags": ["India", "Abortion", "Health", "Women"], "title": "The rise of emergency contraception in India"},{"date": "2009-08-18T13:59:27Z", "country": "india", "content": "A shy girl in a wedding sari and bright red lipstick arrives in a village. A struggling man's arms are crushed when he tries to lift a rock. In the swirling monsoon floods, a mother must literally carry the weight of her family on her shoulders. Children are forced to scavenge for rotting roots. With no oxen, a farmer pulls the plough herself. Mother India: 21st Century Remix (MI21) is a \"re-imagining\" of Mehboob Khan's 1957 classic, conceived by producer Indy Hunjan. The film has been cut down from 163 to 45 minutes. Sound and subtitles have been removed, and it has been re-scored by turntablist DJ Tigerstyle, a cellist and a drummer. It's the kind of project that, if it doesn't hit the right note, could end up feeling like a scene from Nathan Barley. Fortunately, any cynicism is laid to rest by the thoughtful editing of the film's monumental setpieces by Josh Ford, and the impressive restraint of the new music. Tigerstyle creates an elegant, haunting score that enhances the emotion onscreen without overstating it. \"I always wanted to bring Mother India to a wider audience,\" says Hunjan. \"It's a film that has been with me my whole life.\" The original is a gruelling watch. Radha (Nargis) and her husband borrow from the local moneylender, sending them into a spiral of debt from which they can never escape. Over the course of almost three hours, every possible misfortune befalls her.The film's misery can feel relentless. Moreover, the fact \u2013 as in most Bollywood movies \u2013 that the characters often break into song and dance routines is something western audiences find notoriously difficult to take seriously. Hunjan insists MI21 is conceived as a restatement of Mother India, not an improvement. Nonetheless, it was striking at the performance in London how readily non-south Asians (around half of those present) connected with the film. Removing the need to read subtitles, and the culture shock of the songs, allows new audiences direct access to the film's emotional core. Mother India is often compared to Gone With The Wind. Both are epic melodramas, following one woman's turbulent life. In GWTW, Scarlett faces the challenges of the Confederate south in addition to her own romantic strife: war, destruction, reconstruction, the end of slavery. In Mother India, Radha faces the challenges of India's poor in addition to her own family problems: hunger, debt, caste, illiteracy. Unlike GWTW, Mother India is not adapted from a novel \u2013 but it does have the feel and structure of one, sitting somewhere between Thomas Hardy and Charles Dickens on one hand, and Rohinton Mistry and Vikram Seth on the other.It is also intensely political. \"Radha is a strong female role model,\" says Hunjan. \"She fights her corner with grace.\" Her plight has some parallels to the Hindu legend of Sita, which implies that a woman's duty is to suffer endless trials. Largely thanks to Nargis's extraordinary performance, Mother India does not end up feeling anti-feminist, but it is certainly open to interpretation. So, too, is its view of poverty, which takes it into a heated Indian debate. The view of MK Gandhi was that poverty was a spiritual blessing that should be glorified and extended to all. The view of Jawaharlal Nehru was that poverty was a social evil that should be ended. Mother India does have a Gandhian sense of dignity emerging from poverty, of suffering as a path to triumph. Yet it makes forceful Nehruvian arguments for education and industrialisation. Inevitably, these are lost from the shortened version. Even so, MI21 is a powerful and moving glimpse of a challenging, unwieldy masterpiece. After the performance, an old man congratulates Hunjan. \"I was there when Mother India was being filmed,\" he says. \"We all went from our village to the set, hoping to be chosen as extras. I have seen it hundreds of times. Tonight, I felt again like when I saw it for the first time.\" Like many in the audience, he had tears in his eyes. Even 52 years on, Mother India still has the power to turn on the waterworks. Though, to understand that reference fully, new audiences may have to seek out the original.\u2022 More information, including tour dates, for Mother India: 21st Century Remix\u2022 Alex von Tunzelmann's book, Indian Summer: The Secret History of the End of an Empire, was published in 2007", "tags": ["Film", "Culture", "Bollywood", "Thomas Hardy", "Charles Dickens", "India", "Music"], "title": "Remixing Mother India for a new generation | Alex von Tunzelmann"},{"date": "2009-12-25T10:00:01Z", "country": "india", "content": "In the 19th century, Indian armies twice crossed the Hindu Kush, hoping to stitch together the patchwork political authority of the territory in the service of their British masters. Over a century later, the sovereign republic of India once more has a renewed presence in what was once its mountainous buffer from the Tsarist, and then Soviet, giant to the north.A year ago, Indians completed the construction of Afghanistan's new parliament building and, to compound the symbolism, provided training to the legislators who would make the country's laws. Over a billion dollars in aid and investment, multiple consulates, and a little-reported thousand-strong troop presence all testify to the flourishing ties between the two democracies.India is Afghanistan's fifth-largest donor, pledging $1.2bn since 2001 and providing aid that spans education, health and infrastructure. The most eye-catching project, a 215km road connecting the Iranian border to Afghanistan's arterial highway, will eventually allow India to transport goods by sea to an Iranian port it is developing, and thence to Afghanistan and beyond. This circumvents the overland route, blocked by Pakistan, but also gives a fillip to Indo-Afghan trade ($538m during 2007-8). Hamid Karzai, himself educated in India and the beneficiary of Indian military support during the 1990s, visited India four times in the first five years of his tenure. The Afghan national army, the linchpin of the new American strategy to pacify the country, receives training across India.Not everyone is happy with the widening Indian footprint. Pakistan, long reliant on Afghanistan as a source of \"strategic depth\" has invoked fears of encirclement and Indian-sponsored separatism. This is in addition to the panoply of wild \"conspiracy theorists who insist that every one of Pakistan's ills are there because of interference by the US, India, Israel and Afghanistan\", says Ahmed Rashid, a noted Pakistani journalist.Among other attacks, a car bomb at the Indian embassy in Kabul killed 41 in July 2008. According to the New York Times, American officials quickly presented \"intercepted communications between Pakistani intelligence officers and militants who carried out the attack\" to demonstrate Pakistani culpability and \"the ISI officers had not been renegades\".Then in September 2009, General Stanley McChrystal, the commander of the International Security Assistance Force, suggested in a leaked assessment of the war that \"while Indian activities largely benefit the Afghan people, increasing Indian influence in Afghanistan is likely to exacerbate regional tensions and encourage Pakistani countermeasures in Afghanistan or India\". The scarcely veiled threat of further bloodbaths such as Mumbai prompted renewed anger in the Indian media.India has responded cautiously. Indian defence minister AK Antony insisted \"categorically \u2026 there is no question of Indian military involvement in Afghanistan \u2026 not now, not in the future\". A former head of India's foreign intelligence service has said that \"sending troops \u2026 is not an option\".There are sound and perhaps compelling reasons for this reticence. There remain bitter memories of the 1,200 deaths suffered by an Indian peacekeeping force in Sri Lanka, and although Indian security forces have six decades of counterinsurgency experience, they face multiple intensifying guerilla wars at home from Maoists and separatists. Moreover, India's coalition politics, featuring local parties with parochial interests, is hardly suited to sustaining ambitious foreign policies.Yet more than 1,000 members of the paramilitary Indo-Tibetan Border Police are deployed in Afghanistan. President Obama's affirmation to withdraw US forces by 2011 has generated a prospective vacuum, inducing Pakistan to renew its support for the Taliban. This has produced loudening, though still marginal, Indian voices in favour of more boots on the ground.Amir Taheri, writing in The Times, suggests that a military commitment is \"surprisingly popular in India\". One former diplomat argues that \"influential sections of Indian opinion are stridently calling for an outright Indian intervention in Afghanistan without awaiting the niceties of an American invitation letter\".The editor of the \"realist\" journal Pragati writes that \"military involvement \u2026 will shift the battleground away from Kashmir and the Indian mainland\". An affiliated blog draws on the idea of \"force fungibility\" to argue that \"since it is not feasible for Indian troops to directly attack Pakistan's military-jihadi complex, India should ensure that US troops do so\" by \"reliev[ing them] of duties in areas where they are not actually fighting the Taliban \u2013 especially in western and northern Afghanistan\".Others have suggested that \"the best contribution \u2026 might be in the areas of combat training and creating capacities in logistics and communications\", still sorely lacking in the embryonic Afghan national army.Support for the war is faltering in western capitals, partly because citizens cannot see how it furthers homeland security. The frequency and scale of attacks on India mean that Indians have no such trouble. National caveats on force employment \u2013 particularly from France, Italy, and Germany \u2013 hinder the efficacy of Nato troops, but Indian casualty sensitivity is almost certainly less than that in, say, Britain.India's longstanding cultural ties to Afghanistan \u2013 Bollywood movies are wildly popular there, for instance \u2013 mean that Indian soldiers would be less likely to be stigmatised as occupiers, with 73% of Afghans professing a favourable view of India (and 91% holding the opposite view of Pakistan).India is also experienced at counterinsurgency, enjoys good relations with regional powers such as Iran and Russia (including bases in Tajikistan), and the large reserves of available forces. India has nearly 9,000 troops with the UN, and just withdrew 30,000 from Jammu and Kashmir.The obstacle to India's involvement is Pakistan. Yet few stop to evaluate the absurdity of having \"today's most active sponsor of terrorism\" as a frontline ally against terrorists. In December 2009, the New York Times reported Pakistan's refusal to crack down on Siraj Haqqani, the strongest Taliban commander in Afghanistan, on the basis that he was a \"longtime asset of Pakistan's spy agency\".The truth downplayed in western capitals is that India is one of the only interested parties, the US included, that has an interest in both state-building and counterterrorism on the Afghan side of the Durand line. Creating incentives for it to expand its provision of security could lay the groundwork for a commitment that will last long after the last western soldier is flown \u2013 or desperately airlifted \u2013 out of Kabul.", "tags": ["World news", "Afghanistan", "India", "Pakistan", "US news", "US foreign policy", "Politics", "Foreign policy", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Let India help Afghanistan | Shashank Joshi"},{"date": "2009-12-25T10:00:01Z", "country": "india", "content": "In the 19th century, Indian armies twice crossed the Hindu Kush, hoping to stitch together the patchwork political authority of the territory in the service of their British masters. Over a century later, the sovereign republic of India once more has a renewed presence in what was once its mountainous buffer from the Tsarist, and then Soviet, giant to the north.A year ago, Indians completed the construction of Afghanistan's new parliament building and, to compound the symbolism, provided training to the legislators who would make the country's laws. Over a billion dollars in aid and investment, multiple consulates, and a little-reported thousand-strong troop presence all testify to the flourishing ties between the two democracies.India is Afghanistan's fifth-largest donor, pledging $1.2bn since 2001 and providing aid that spans education, health and infrastructure. The most eye-catching project, a 215km road connecting the Iranian border to Afghanistan's arterial highway, will eventually allow India to transport goods by sea to an Iranian port it is developing, and thence to Afghanistan and beyond. This circumvents the overland route, blocked by Pakistan, but also gives a fillip to Indo-Afghan trade ($538m during 2007-8). Hamid Karzai, himself educated in India and the beneficiary of Indian military support during the 1990s, visited India four times in the first five years of his tenure. The Afghan national army, the linchpin of the new American strategy to pacify the country, receives training across India.Not everyone is happy with the widening Indian footprint. Pakistan, long reliant on Afghanistan as a source of \"strategic depth\" has invoked fears of encirclement and Indian-sponsored separatism. This is in addition to the panoply of wild \"conspiracy theorists who insist that every one of Pakistan's ills are there because of interference by the US, India, Israel and Afghanistan\", says Ahmed Rashid, a noted Pakistani journalist.Among other attacks, a car bomb at the Indian embassy in Kabul killed 41 in July 2008. According to the New York Times, American officials quickly presented \"intercepted communications between Pakistani intelligence officers and militants who carried out the attack\" to demonstrate Pakistani culpability and \"the ISI officers had not been renegades\".Then in September 2009, General Stanley McChrystal, the commander of the International Security Assistance Force, suggested in a leaked assessment of the war that \"while Indian activities largely benefit the Afghan people, increasing Indian influence in Afghanistan is likely to exacerbate regional tensions and encourage Pakistani countermeasures in Afghanistan or India\". The scarcely veiled threat of further bloodbaths such as Mumbai prompted renewed anger in the Indian media.India has responded cautiously. Indian defence minister AK Antony insisted \"categorically \u2026 there is no question of Indian military involvement in Afghanistan \u2026 not now, not in the future\". A former head of India's foreign intelligence service has said that \"sending troops \u2026 is not an option\".There are sound and perhaps compelling reasons for this reticence. There remain bitter memories of the 1,200 deaths suffered by an Indian peacekeeping force in Sri Lanka, and although Indian security forces have six decades of counterinsurgency experience, they face multiple intensifying guerilla wars at home from Maoists and separatists. Moreover, India's coalition politics, featuring local parties with parochial interests, is hardly suited to sustaining ambitious foreign policies.Yet more than 1,000 members of the paramilitary Indo-Tibetan Border Police are deployed in Afghanistan. President Obama's affirmation to withdraw US forces by 2011 has generated a prospective vacuum, inducing Pakistan to renew its support for the Taliban. This has produced loudening, though still marginal, Indian voices in favour of more boots on the ground.Amir Taheri, writing in The Times, suggests that a military commitment is \"surprisingly popular in India\". One former diplomat argues that \"influential sections of Indian opinion are stridently calling for an outright Indian intervention in Afghanistan without awaiting the niceties of an American invitation letter\".The editor of the \"realist\" journal Pragati writes that \"military involvement \u2026 will shift the battleground away from Kashmir and the Indian mainland\". An affiliated blog draws on the idea of \"force fungibility\" to argue that \"since it is not feasible for Indian troops to directly attack Pakistan's military-jihadi complex, India should ensure that US troops do so\" by \"reliev[ing them] of duties in areas where they are not actually fighting the Taliban \u2013 especially in western and northern Afghanistan\".Others have suggested that \"the best contribution \u2026 might be in the areas of combat training and creating capacities in logistics and communications\", still sorely lacking in the embryonic Afghan national army.Support for the war is faltering in western capitals, partly because citizens cannot see how it furthers homeland security. The frequency and scale of attacks on India mean that Indians have no such trouble. National caveats on force employment \u2013 particularly from France, Italy, and Germany \u2013 hinder the efficacy of Nato troops, but Indian casualty sensitivity is almost certainly less than that in, say, Britain.India's longstanding cultural ties to Afghanistan \u2013 Bollywood movies are wildly popular there, for instance \u2013 mean that Indian soldiers would be less likely to be stigmatised as occupiers, with 73% of Afghans professing a favourable view of India (and 91% holding the opposite view of Pakistan).India is also experienced at counterinsurgency, enjoys good relations with regional powers such as Iran and Russia (including bases in Tajikistan), and the large reserves of available forces. India has nearly 9,000 troops with the UN, and just withdrew 30,000 from Jammu and Kashmir.The obstacle to India's involvement is Pakistan. Yet few stop to evaluate the absurdity of having \"today's most active sponsor of terrorism\" as a frontline ally against terrorists. In December 2009, the New York Times reported Pakistan's refusal to crack down on Siraj Haqqani, the strongest Taliban commander in Afghanistan, on the basis that he was a \"longtime asset of Pakistan's spy agency\".The truth downplayed in western capitals is that India is one of the only interested parties, the US included, that has an interest in both state-building and counterterrorism on the Afghan side of the Durand line. Creating incentives for it to expand its provision of security could lay the groundwork for a commitment that will last long after the last western soldier is flown \u2013 or desperately airlifted \u2013 out of Kabul.", "tags": ["World news", "Afghanistan", "India", "Pakistan", "US news", "US foreign policy", "Politics", "Foreign policy", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Let India help Afghanistan | Shashank Joshi"},{"date": "2009-12-02T21:29:51Z", "country": "india", "content": "India became the last of the \"big four\" polluters to reveal its opening hand in the negotiations today, ahead of the crucial climate change talks in Copenhagen next week.Government sources revealed the country could curb the carbon emitted relative to the growth of its economy \u2013 its carbon intensity \u2013 by 24% by 2020.The target would mean emissions would continue to rise as the government aims to lift millions out of poverty, but by less than currently predicted.The leaked figure days after the announcement last week that China would cut its carbon intensity by more than 40% by 2020. The EU has already pledged a 20% cut in carbon emissions by 2020 \u2013 set to rise to 30% if other developed countries match the European target \u2013 while the US last month proposed cuts of 17%. These four are expected to emit almost two-thirds of the carbon between now and 2050.Comparing the targets is complicated. India and China's target are for carbon intensity, but they at least use the same base year, 2005. The EU uses 1990 as a base year, while the US uses 2005. But observers see all the targets as below what scientists say are needed to give an even chance of keeping temperature rise below the dangerous limit of 2C.\"If India offers an emissions target, even if it's relative to their economic growth, it's a very welcome step,\" said Bryony Worthington, founder of campaign group Sandbag. \"It's yet another sign that rapidly developing countries see the potential for green growth. Europe now needs to up its game and commit to targets which really get to grips with our apparently unshakeable addiction to carbon.\"Sources told the Indian media that the reduction in carbon intensity could go up to 37% by 2030, compared with 2005. India's environment minister, Jairam Ramesh, is expected to make a statement in parliament tomorrow to announce the targets. To reduce emissions, India's national action plan on climate change sees increasing solar power generation and improving energy efficiency as a route to \"greener growth\". In August, India laid out an ambitious plan to generate 20GW of solar power by 2020, which could equate to 75% of the world's solar energy.The country, which is the fourth-highest emitter of greenhouse gases, has been under pressure from developed nations to announce its plan to control emissions.The \"voluntary reductions\" were first floated by Ramesh last week during talks with the Chinese prime minister. He told journalists then that India could not afford to be seen as lagging behind in other nations in offering to act.A senior government official, who declined to be named, told Reuters that India's final targets, likely to be presented in Copenhagen, could reflect a broad range rather than a specific figure.The momentum generated by the succession of announcements on targets may throw attention on to the issue of funding for climate adaptation in poorer nations.Delhi has been a hardliner in the negotiations saying it won't accept legally binding emission caps and offered only to keep per-capita output of carbon lower than that of richer nations. The average Indian's carbon footprint is eight times smaller than the average person in Britain.", "tags": ["Greenhouse gas emissions", "Climate change", "India", "Environment", "World news", "Copenhagen climate change conference 2009", "Global climate talks"], "title": "India reveals carbon emission targets"},{"date": "2009-12-25T10:00:01Z", "country": "india", "content": "In the 19th century, Indian armies twice crossed the Hindu Kush, hoping to stitch together the patchwork political authority of the territory in the service of their British masters. Over a century later, the sovereign republic of India once more has a renewed presence in what was once its mountainous buffer from the Tsarist, and then Soviet, giant to the north.A year ago, Indians completed the construction of Afghanistan's new parliament building and, to compound the symbolism, provided training to the legislators who would make the country's laws. Over a billion dollars in aid and investment, multiple consulates, and a little-reported thousand-strong troop presence all testify to the flourishing ties between the two democracies.India is Afghanistan's fifth-largest donor, pledging $1.2bn since 2001 and providing aid that spans education, health and infrastructure. The most eye-catching project, a 215km road connecting the Iranian border to Afghanistan's arterial highway, will eventually allow India to transport goods by sea to an Iranian port it is developing, and thence to Afghanistan and beyond. This circumvents the overland route, blocked by Pakistan, but also gives a fillip to Indo-Afghan trade ($538m during 2007-8). Hamid Karzai, himself educated in India and the beneficiary of Indian military support during the 1990s, visited India four times in the first five years of his tenure. The Afghan national army, the linchpin of the new American strategy to pacify the country, receives training across India.Not everyone is happy with the widening Indian footprint. Pakistan, long reliant on Afghanistan as a source of \"strategic depth\" has invoked fears of encirclement and Indian-sponsored separatism. This is in addition to the panoply of wild \"conspiracy theorists who insist that every one of Pakistan's ills are there because of interference by the US, India, Israel and Afghanistan\", says Ahmed Rashid, a noted Pakistani journalist.Among other attacks, a car bomb at the Indian embassy in Kabul killed 41 in July 2008. According to the New York Times, American officials quickly presented \"intercepted communications between Pakistani intelligence officers and militants who carried out the attack\" to demonstrate Pakistani culpability and \"the ISI officers had not been renegades\".Then in September 2009, General Stanley McChrystal, the commander of the International Security Assistance Force, suggested in a leaked assessment of the war that \"while Indian activities largely benefit the Afghan people, increasing Indian influence in Afghanistan is likely to exacerbate regional tensions and encourage Pakistani countermeasures in Afghanistan or India\". The scarcely veiled threat of further bloodbaths such as Mumbai prompted renewed anger in the Indian media.India has responded cautiously. Indian defence minister AK Antony insisted \"categorically \u2026 there is no question of Indian military involvement in Afghanistan \u2026 not now, not in the future\". A former head of India's foreign intelligence service has said that \"sending troops \u2026 is not an option\".There are sound and perhaps compelling reasons for this reticence. There remain bitter memories of the 1,200 deaths suffered by an Indian peacekeeping force in Sri Lanka, and although Indian security forces have six decades of counterinsurgency experience, they face multiple intensifying guerilla wars at home from Maoists and separatists. Moreover, India's coalition politics, featuring local parties with parochial interests, is hardly suited to sustaining ambitious foreign policies.Yet more than 1,000 members of the paramilitary Indo-Tibetan Border Police are deployed in Afghanistan. President Obama's affirmation to withdraw US forces by 2011 has generated a prospective vacuum, inducing Pakistan to renew its support for the Taliban. This has produced loudening, though still marginal, Indian voices in favour of more boots on the ground.Amir Taheri, writing in The Times, suggests that a military commitment is \"surprisingly popular in India\". One former diplomat argues that \"influential sections of Indian opinion are stridently calling for an outright Indian intervention in Afghanistan without awaiting the niceties of an American invitation letter\".The editor of the \"realist\" journal Pragati writes that \"military involvement \u2026 will shift the battleground away from Kashmir and the Indian mainland\". An affiliated blog draws on the idea of \"force fungibility\" to argue that \"since it is not feasible for Indian troops to directly attack Pakistan's military-jihadi complex, India should ensure that US troops do so\" by \"reliev[ing them] of duties in areas where they are not actually fighting the Taliban \u2013 especially in western and northern Afghanistan\".Others have suggested that \"the best contribution \u2026 might be in the areas of combat training and creating capacities in logistics and communications\", still sorely lacking in the embryonic Afghan national army.Support for the war is faltering in western capitals, partly because citizens cannot see how it furthers homeland security. The frequency and scale of attacks on India mean that Indians have no such trouble. National caveats on force employment \u2013 particularly from France, Italy, and Germany \u2013 hinder the efficacy of Nato troops, but Indian casualty sensitivity is almost certainly less than that in, say, Britain.India's longstanding cultural ties to Afghanistan \u2013 Bollywood movies are wildly popular there, for instance \u2013 mean that Indian soldiers would be less likely to be stigmatised as occupiers, with 73% of Afghans professing a favourable view of India (and 91% holding the opposite view of Pakistan).India is also experienced at counterinsurgency, enjoys good relations with regional powers such as Iran and Russia (including bases in Tajikistan), and the large reserves of available forces. India has nearly 9,000 troops with the UN, and just withdrew 30,000 from Jammu and Kashmir.The obstacle to India's involvement is Pakistan. Yet few stop to evaluate the absurdity of having \"today's most active sponsor of terrorism\" as a frontline ally against terrorists. In December 2009, the New York Times reported Pakistan's refusal to crack down on Siraj Haqqani, the strongest Taliban commander in Afghanistan, on the basis that he was a \"longtime asset of Pakistan's spy agency\".The truth downplayed in western capitals is that India is one of the only interested parties, the US included, that has an interest in both state-building and counterterrorism on the Afghan side of the Durand line. Creating incentives for it to expand its provision of security could lay the groundwork for a commitment that will last long after the last western soldier is flown \u2013 or desperately airlifted \u2013 out of Kabul.", "tags": ["World news", "Afghanistan", "India", "Pakistan", "US news", "US foreign policy", "Politics", "Foreign policy", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Let India help Afghanistan | Shashank Joshi"},{"date": "2009-12-02T21:29:51Z", "country": "india", "content": "India became the last of the \"big four\" polluters to reveal its opening hand in the negotiations today, ahead of the crucial climate change talks in Copenhagen next week.Government sources revealed the country could curb the carbon emitted relative to the growth of its economy \u2013 its carbon intensity \u2013 by 24% by 2020.The target would mean emissions would continue to rise as the government aims to lift millions out of poverty, but by less than currently predicted.The leaked figure days after the announcement last week that China would cut its carbon intensity by more than 40% by 2020. The EU has already pledged a 20% cut in carbon emissions by 2020 \u2013 set to rise to 30% if other developed countries match the European target \u2013 while the US last month proposed cuts of 17%. These four are expected to emit almost two-thirds of the carbon between now and 2050.Comparing the targets is complicated. India and China's target are for carbon intensity, but they at least use the same base year, 2005. The EU uses 1990 as a base year, while the US uses 2005. But observers see all the targets as below what scientists say are needed to give an even chance of keeping temperature rise below the dangerous limit of 2C.\"If India offers an emissions target, even if it's relative to their economic growth, it's a very welcome step,\" said Bryony Worthington, founder of campaign group Sandbag. \"It's yet another sign that rapidly developing countries see the potential for green growth. Europe now needs to up its game and commit to targets which really get to grips with our apparently unshakeable addiction to carbon.\"Sources told the Indian media that the reduction in carbon intensity could go up to 37% by 2030, compared with 2005. India's environment minister, Jairam Ramesh, is expected to make a statement in parliament tomorrow to announce the targets. To reduce emissions, India's national action plan on climate change sees increasing solar power generation and improving energy efficiency as a route to \"greener growth\". In August, India laid out an ambitious plan to generate 20GW of solar power by 2020, which could equate to 75% of the world's solar energy.The country, which is the fourth-highest emitter of greenhouse gases, has been under pressure from developed nations to announce its plan to control emissions.The \"voluntary reductions\" were first floated by Ramesh last week during talks with the Chinese prime minister. He told journalists then that India could not afford to be seen as lagging behind in other nations in offering to act.A senior government official, who declined to be named, told Reuters that India's final targets, likely to be presented in Copenhagen, could reflect a broad range rather than a specific figure.The momentum generated by the succession of announcements on targets may throw attention on to the issue of funding for climate adaptation in poorer nations.Delhi has been a hardliner in the negotiations saying it won't accept legally binding emission caps and offered only to keep per-capita output of carbon lower than that of richer nations. The average Indian's carbon footprint is eight times smaller than the average person in Britain.", "tags": ["Greenhouse gas emissions", "Climate change", "India", "Environment", "World news", "Copenhagen climate change conference 2009", "Global climate talks"], "title": "India reveals carbon emission targets"},{"date": "2009-12-11T15:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "India, where I come from, is beautiful, dignified and wise \u2013 just like my grandmother, Nani ma (grandmother in Hindi). The insight and depth of argument India brings to the table at the climate change conference in Copenhagen is well researched and reflects its experience in negotiating for years.When India was young, developed countries were busy polluting the world and India, now that it is coming of age, is calling for them to take ambitious binding commitments as per their historical responsibilities and to help India age gracefully by giving it adequate finance and technology to grow, but on a low-carbon pathway.India is the second most populous country in the world and releases the fifth largest amount of emissions \u2013 yet I would argue that it has almost negligible per capita emissions, as most of the population is so poor. Poverty has actually grown over years, no doubt down to our inability to correlate growth with better standards of living, which is perhaps why we figure very low on the Human Development Index compared to other developing economies. So it's somewhat unfair to club us together with China \u2013 we're neither as old nor as polluting as our next-door neighbour.Despite all this India really has behaved more maturely than its age might suggest. Recently in parliament, Jairam Ramesh, our environment and forests minister, announced that the country would reduce the intensity of carbon by 24% by 2020. India has also ratified the Kyoto protocol and come out with a national action plan on climate change, which has eight missions, one of which is among the most ambitious solar projects, to generate about 20 gigawatts of power by 2022 and another to enhance renewable energy sources.But my grandmother always tells me how much money she has, but she'd never allow me to search her purse. Similarly India will give biannual reports to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) about its emissions reduction actions but will never allow international scrutiny for its domestically funded actions. It would also like all the finance offered to be additional and not as a Christmas gift (read official development assistance).Grandmothers also hold on to traditions. India has always put forward its view that the text being negotiated in Copenhagen is not in line with the convention (UNFCCC body principles) and the Bali Action Plan which was enforced by parties at the landmark COP13 in Bali. It feels that the text favours rich countries and most of the statements try to move away from the principles that have been agreed upon.This was again reflected in the recent tussle between the small island states and the advanced developing economies on whether to start discussions on amending the Kyoto protocol and bring in a new protocol. Since the Kyoto protocol acknowledges the differences between rich and poor nations with individually tailored responsibilities (one of the only global negotiations where this holds true), India will continue to defend it and block any move that would enable the richer countries to buy time and commit less and the conference to deviate from its core agenda.I often remind my grandmother that you need to accept we live in a new world. I urge the Indian government to see that it is putting so many people's lives at risk, including many of my own friends from the island nations. Could it not do anything to get a more ambitious deal? Could it not push the US harder, take the mike and make a bold statement that the European Union should show leadership?I am sure that the reasons for it blocking Tuvalu's proposal to amend the Kyoto protocol is not to escape from its own responsibilities but to make sure that developed countries' overdue obligations are committed first and attention from them is not diverted .India wants to ensure a deal in Copenhagen. When your grandmother needs to convince you, she would try to use all the ploys she could. India needs to do the same. It should empower its stakeholders to raise their voices and aggressively engage with the Indian media, civil society, youth and indigenous communities to progressively put pressure on the developed nations to deliver on their responsibilities.Be vocal and bold. That's all I ask.", "tags": ["Copenhagen climate change conference 2009", "India", "Climate change", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Kyoto protocol", "Environment", "World news", "Global climate talks"], "title": "India must speak out at Copenhagen | Leela Raina"},{"date": "2009-12-25T10:00:01Z", "country": "india", "content": "In the 19th century, Indian armies twice crossed the Hindu Kush, hoping to stitch together the patchwork political authority of the territory in the service of their British masters. Over a century later, the sovereign republic of India once more has a renewed presence in what was once its mountainous buffer from the Tsarist, and then Soviet, giant to the north.A year ago, Indians completed the construction of Afghanistan's new parliament building and, to compound the symbolism, provided training to the legislators who would make the country's laws. Over a billion dollars in aid and investment, multiple consulates, and a little-reported thousand-strong troop presence all testify to the flourishing ties between the two democracies.India is Afghanistan's fifth-largest donor, pledging $1.2bn since 2001 and providing aid that spans education, health and infrastructure. The most eye-catching project, a 215km road connecting the Iranian border to Afghanistan's arterial highway, will eventually allow India to transport goods by sea to an Iranian port it is developing, and thence to Afghanistan and beyond. This circumvents the overland route, blocked by Pakistan, but also gives a fillip to Indo-Afghan trade ($538m during 2007-8). Hamid Karzai, himself educated in India and the beneficiary of Indian military support during the 1990s, visited India four times in the first five years of his tenure. The Afghan national army, the linchpin of the new American strategy to pacify the country, receives training across India.Not everyone is happy with the widening Indian footprint. Pakistan, long reliant on Afghanistan as a source of \"strategic depth\" has invoked fears of encirclement and Indian-sponsored separatism. This is in addition to the panoply of wild \"conspiracy theorists who insist that every one of Pakistan's ills are there because of interference by the US, India, Israel and Afghanistan\", says Ahmed Rashid, a noted Pakistani journalist.Among other attacks, a car bomb at the Indian embassy in Kabul killed 41 in July 2008. According to the New York Times, American officials quickly presented \"intercepted communications between Pakistani intelligence officers and militants who carried out the attack\" to demonstrate Pakistani culpability and \"the ISI officers had not been renegades\".Then in September 2009, General Stanley McChrystal, the commander of the International Security Assistance Force, suggested in a leaked assessment of the war that \"while Indian activities largely benefit the Afghan people, increasing Indian influence in Afghanistan is likely to exacerbate regional tensions and encourage Pakistani countermeasures in Afghanistan or India\". The scarcely veiled threat of further bloodbaths such as Mumbai prompted renewed anger in the Indian media.India has responded cautiously. Indian defence minister AK Antony insisted \"categorically \u2026 there is no question of Indian military involvement in Afghanistan \u2026 not now, not in the future\". A former head of India's foreign intelligence service has said that \"sending troops \u2026 is not an option\".There are sound and perhaps compelling reasons for this reticence. There remain bitter memories of the 1,200 deaths suffered by an Indian peacekeeping force in Sri Lanka, and although Indian security forces have six decades of counterinsurgency experience, they face multiple intensifying guerilla wars at home from Maoists and separatists. Moreover, India's coalition politics, featuring local parties with parochial interests, is hardly suited to sustaining ambitious foreign policies.Yet more than 1,000 members of the paramilitary Indo-Tibetan Border Police are deployed in Afghanistan. President Obama's affirmation to withdraw US forces by 2011 has generated a prospective vacuum, inducing Pakistan to renew its support for the Taliban. This has produced loudening, though still marginal, Indian voices in favour of more boots on the ground.Amir Taheri, writing in The Times, suggests that a military commitment is \"surprisingly popular in India\". One former diplomat argues that \"influential sections of Indian opinion are stridently calling for an outright Indian intervention in Afghanistan without awaiting the niceties of an American invitation letter\".The editor of the \"realist\" journal Pragati writes that \"military involvement \u2026 will shift the battleground away from Kashmir and the Indian mainland\". An affiliated blog draws on the idea of \"force fungibility\" to argue that \"since it is not feasible for Indian troops to directly attack Pakistan's military-jihadi complex, India should ensure that US troops do so\" by \"reliev[ing them] of duties in areas where they are not actually fighting the Taliban \u2013 especially in western and northern Afghanistan\".Others have suggested that \"the best contribution \u2026 might be in the areas of combat training and creating capacities in logistics and communications\", still sorely lacking in the embryonic Afghan national army.Support for the war is faltering in western capitals, partly because citizens cannot see how it furthers homeland security. The frequency and scale of attacks on India mean that Indians have no such trouble. National caveats on force employment \u2013 particularly from France, Italy, and Germany \u2013 hinder the efficacy of Nato troops, but Indian casualty sensitivity is almost certainly less than that in, say, Britain.India's longstanding cultural ties to Afghanistan \u2013 Bollywood movies are wildly popular there, for instance \u2013 mean that Indian soldiers would be less likely to be stigmatised as occupiers, with 73% of Afghans professing a favourable view of India (and 91% holding the opposite view of Pakistan).India is also experienced at counterinsurgency, enjoys good relations with regional powers such as Iran and Russia (including bases in Tajikistan), and the large reserves of available forces. India has nearly 9,000 troops with the UN, and just withdrew 30,000 from Jammu and Kashmir.The obstacle to India's involvement is Pakistan. Yet few stop to evaluate the absurdity of having \"today's most active sponsor of terrorism\" as a frontline ally against terrorists. In December 2009, the New York Times reported Pakistan's refusal to crack down on Siraj Haqqani, the strongest Taliban commander in Afghanistan, on the basis that he was a \"longtime asset of Pakistan's spy agency\".The truth downplayed in western capitals is that India is one of the only interested parties, the US included, that has an interest in both state-building and counterterrorism on the Afghan side of the Durand line. Creating incentives for it to expand its provision of security could lay the groundwork for a commitment that will last long after the last western soldier is flown \u2013 or desperately airlifted \u2013 out of Kabul.", "tags": ["World news", "Afghanistan", "India", "Pakistan", "US news", "US foreign policy", "Politics", "Foreign policy", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Let India help Afghanistan | Shashank Joshi"},{"date": "2009-12-02T21:29:51Z", "country": "india", "content": "India became the last of the \"big four\" polluters to reveal its opening hand in the negotiations today, ahead of the crucial climate change talks in Copenhagen next week.Government sources revealed the country could curb the carbon emitted relative to the growth of its economy \u2013 its carbon intensity \u2013 by 24% by 2020.The target would mean emissions would continue to rise as the government aims to lift millions out of poverty, but by less than currently predicted.The leaked figure days after the announcement last week that China would cut its carbon intensity by more than 40% by 2020. The EU has already pledged a 20% cut in carbon emissions by 2020 \u2013 set to rise to 30% if other developed countries match the European target \u2013 while the US last month proposed cuts of 17%. These four are expected to emit almost two-thirds of the carbon between now and 2050.Comparing the targets is complicated. India and China's target are for carbon intensity, but they at least use the same base year, 2005. The EU uses 1990 as a base year, while the US uses 2005. But observers see all the targets as below what scientists say are needed to give an even chance of keeping temperature rise below the dangerous limit of 2C.\"If India offers an emissions target, even if it's relative to their economic growth, it's a very welcome step,\" said Bryony Worthington, founder of campaign group Sandbag. \"It's yet another sign that rapidly developing countries see the potential for green growth. Europe now needs to up its game and commit to targets which really get to grips with our apparently unshakeable addiction to carbon.\"Sources told the Indian media that the reduction in carbon intensity could go up to 37% by 2030, compared with 2005. India's environment minister, Jairam Ramesh, is expected to make a statement in parliament tomorrow to announce the targets. To reduce emissions, India's national action plan on climate change sees increasing solar power generation and improving energy efficiency as a route to \"greener growth\". In August, India laid out an ambitious plan to generate 20GW of solar power by 2020, which could equate to 75% of the world's solar energy.The country, which is the fourth-highest emitter of greenhouse gases, has been under pressure from developed nations to announce its plan to control emissions.The \"voluntary reductions\" were first floated by Ramesh last week during talks with the Chinese prime minister. He told journalists then that India could not afford to be seen as lagging behind in other nations in offering to act.A senior government official, who declined to be named, told Reuters that India's final targets, likely to be presented in Copenhagen, could reflect a broad range rather than a specific figure.The momentum generated by the succession of announcements on targets may throw attention on to the issue of funding for climate adaptation in poorer nations.Delhi has been a hardliner in the negotiations saying it won't accept legally binding emission caps and offered only to keep per-capita output of carbon lower than that of richer nations. The average Indian's carbon footprint is eight times smaller than the average person in Britain.", "tags": ["Greenhouse gas emissions", "Climate change", "India", "Environment", "World news", "Copenhagen climate change conference 2009", "Global climate talks"], "title": "India reveals carbon emission targets"},{"date": "2009-12-11T15:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "India, where I come from, is beautiful, dignified and wise \u2013 just like my grandmother, Nani ma (grandmother in Hindi). The insight and depth of argument India brings to the table at the climate change conference in Copenhagen is well researched and reflects its experience in negotiating for years.When India was young, developed countries were busy polluting the world and India, now that it is coming of age, is calling for them to take ambitious binding commitments as per their historical responsibilities and to help India age gracefully by giving it adequate finance and technology to grow, but on a low-carbon pathway.India is the second most populous country in the world and releases the fifth largest amount of emissions \u2013 yet I would argue that it has almost negligible per capita emissions, as most of the population is so poor. Poverty has actually grown over years, no doubt down to our inability to correlate growth with better standards of living, which is perhaps why we figure very low on the Human Development Index compared to other developing economies. So it's somewhat unfair to club us together with China \u2013 we're neither as old nor as polluting as our next-door neighbour.Despite all this India really has behaved more maturely than its age might suggest. Recently in parliament, Jairam Ramesh, our environment and forests minister, announced that the country would reduce the intensity of carbon by 24% by 2020. India has also ratified the Kyoto protocol and come out with a national action plan on climate change, which has eight missions, one of which is among the most ambitious solar projects, to generate about 20 gigawatts of power by 2022 and another to enhance renewable energy sources.But my grandmother always tells me how much money she has, but she'd never allow me to search her purse. Similarly India will give biannual reports to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) about its emissions reduction actions but will never allow international scrutiny for its domestically funded actions. It would also like all the finance offered to be additional and not as a Christmas gift (read official development assistance).Grandmothers also hold on to traditions. India has always put forward its view that the text being negotiated in Copenhagen is not in line with the convention (UNFCCC body principles) and the Bali Action Plan which was enforced by parties at the landmark COP13 in Bali. It feels that the text favours rich countries and most of the statements try to move away from the principles that have been agreed upon.This was again reflected in the recent tussle between the small island states and the advanced developing economies on whether to start discussions on amending the Kyoto protocol and bring in a new protocol. Since the Kyoto protocol acknowledges the differences between rich and poor nations with individually tailored responsibilities (one of the only global negotiations where this holds true), India will continue to defend it and block any move that would enable the richer countries to buy time and commit less and the conference to deviate from its core agenda.I often remind my grandmother that you need to accept we live in a new world. I urge the Indian government to see that it is putting so many people's lives at risk, including many of my own friends from the island nations. Could it not do anything to get a more ambitious deal? Could it not push the US harder, take the mike and make a bold statement that the European Union should show leadership?I am sure that the reasons for it blocking Tuvalu's proposal to amend the Kyoto protocol is not to escape from its own responsibilities but to make sure that developed countries' overdue obligations are committed first and attention from them is not diverted .India wants to ensure a deal in Copenhagen. When your grandmother needs to convince you, she would try to use all the ploys she could. India needs to do the same. It should empower its stakeholders to raise their voices and aggressively engage with the Indian media, civil society, youth and indigenous communities to progressively put pressure on the developed nations to deliver on their responsibilities.Be vocal and bold. That's all I ask.", "tags": ["Copenhagen climate change conference 2009", "India", "Climate change", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Kyoto protocol", "Environment", "World news", "Global climate talks"], "title": "India must speak out at Copenhagen | Leela Raina"},{"date": "2009-11-29T17:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "In 2005 I spent time with a student named Rajesh in Meerut College, in Uttar Pradesh. Rajesh was in his early 30s and had been studying in Meerut for 13 years. Like many long-time students there, he described himself as \"unemployed\", someone \"just waiting\".There are many like Rajesh in Meerut and across northern India. Behind the image of tech-savvy IT specialists in India lies a dispiriting picture common throughout Asia, Africa and Latin America: a multitude of educated but unemployed young men.The sources of this problem are not difficult to identify: rising education rates have led to higher aspirations around the world. At the same time, governments have often cut the public sector jobs upon which educated people formerly depended. The result in numerous places has been the \"overproduction\" of educated people: the \"men hanging out on the street\" that seem to feature in so many travel accounts and contemporary anthropologies of poorer countries.Over the past 15 years I have been doing research funded by the Economic and Social Research Council on the problem of educated unemployment in Uttar Pradesh, whose 190m people make it India's most populous state. Many parents in Uttar Pradesh are able to finance school and university education for their children. But these graduates find it impossible to obtain salaried jobs.The sheer scale of the problem of youth unemployment is staggering. There are regularly more than 10,000 applicants for a single government post in Meerut. Students there tell me that to get a job it is now necessary to possess \"source\" (social connections) and \"force\" (the money for bribes).Students' anger is compounded by their fury at educational decay. Lack of investment in higher education and widespread corruption in many universities has undermined the value of students' degrees. Things came to a head in 2006 when it emerged that, as an economy measure, the registrar of a prominent university in Meerut had been sending masters theses to be marked by school pupils, some allegedly as young as eight. When students discovered what had happened, they came into the streets to burn their degrees.Some young people in Meerut give up on the search for salaried work and return to farming or manual labour. There are MAs, even PhDs, working in the fields of Uttar Pradesh. But like Rajesh, many students respond to unemployment by simply remaining in education, collecting degrees, and hoping that their luck will change.What are the social and political implications of this mass unemployment? At the family level, the impact is marked. Those unsuccessful in finding decent, permanent jobs often face parents who resent scrimping and saving for their sons' education. Parents often complain about the sacrifices they made to educate their children. Moreover, young women sometimes work in the field to keep their brothers in college \u2013 and this has led to many tensions between siblings.What of political unrest? Commentators in the past have tended to imagine these men as either politically apathetic or violent threats to civilised society. My research \u2013 which involved years of interviewing and hanging out with young men \u2013 has tried to move beyond these stereotypes. To be sure, some unemployed young men have been involved in violence, such as the Hindu/Muslim riots and pogroms that erupted in India in the early 1990s. But the reality may be more mundane. Jobless young men have adopted one of two strategies in contemporary Uttar Pradesh. Some use their free time and skills to advocate on behalf of the poor. There are many such \"social reformers\" in Meerut, who often voice critiques of the Indian state, but tend to avoid violence.A second group work as political entrepreneurs at the local level: they call themselves \"fixers\". These men traded on their knowledge of how politics works at the local level, to sell places in private universities, extract bribes from government officials, or steer contracts towards favoured businessmen. These men do use violence and their actions encourage the further proliferation of corruption in Uttar Pradesh.Mass unemployment among the educated in India may have contradictory implications. On the one hand, it may lead to the emergence of a set of people who can play key development roles in the countryside and small towns. These bright young \"social reformers\" are keen to find outlets for their zeal. On the other hand, there are many young men whose joblessness has provoked aggressive individualism and an \"anyhow\" mentality when it comes to making money. The Indian government and international organisations need to get much better at enrolling the first group into processes of planned development, and persuading the second group to redirect their energy in more positive directions.The time is also ripe for a broader discussion of mass unemployment among educated young people across the world. What do they have in common? How do their responses differ? How might governments and others address the problem? The answers to these questions are likely to reveal a great deal not only about youth the world over, but about the chance of progressive social change in places like India.", "tags": ["India", "Unemployment and employment statistics", "Young people", "Society", "World news", "Business"], "title": "Young, educated and jobless in India | Craig Jeffrey"},{"date": "2009-12-25T10:00:01Z", "country": "india", "content": "In the 19th century, Indian armies twice crossed the Hindu Kush, hoping to stitch together the patchwork political authority of the territory in the service of their British masters. Over a century later, the sovereign republic of India once more has a renewed presence in what was once its mountainous buffer from the Tsarist, and then Soviet, giant to the north.A year ago, Indians completed the construction of Afghanistan's new parliament building and, to compound the symbolism, provided training to the legislators who would make the country's laws. Over a billion dollars in aid and investment, multiple consulates, and a little-reported thousand-strong troop presence all testify to the flourishing ties between the two democracies.India is Afghanistan's fifth-largest donor, pledging $1.2bn since 2001 and providing aid that spans education, health and infrastructure. The most eye-catching project, a 215km road connecting the Iranian border to Afghanistan's arterial highway, will eventually allow India to transport goods by sea to an Iranian port it is developing, and thence to Afghanistan and beyond. This circumvents the overland route, blocked by Pakistan, but also gives a fillip to Indo-Afghan trade ($538m during 2007-8). Hamid Karzai, himself educated in India and the beneficiary of Indian military support during the 1990s, visited India four times in the first five years of his tenure. The Afghan national army, the linchpin of the new American strategy to pacify the country, receives training across India.Not everyone is happy with the widening Indian footprint. Pakistan, long reliant on Afghanistan as a source of \"strategic depth\" has invoked fears of encirclement and Indian-sponsored separatism. This is in addition to the panoply of wild \"conspiracy theorists who insist that every one of Pakistan's ills are there because of interference by the US, India, Israel and Afghanistan\", says Ahmed Rashid, a noted Pakistani journalist.Among other attacks, a car bomb at the Indian embassy in Kabul killed 41 in July 2008. According to the New York Times, American officials quickly presented \"intercepted communications between Pakistani intelligence officers and militants who carried out the attack\" to demonstrate Pakistani culpability and \"the ISI officers had not been renegades\".Then in September 2009, General Stanley McChrystal, the commander of the International Security Assistance Force, suggested in a leaked assessment of the war that \"while Indian activities largely benefit the Afghan people, increasing Indian influence in Afghanistan is likely to exacerbate regional tensions and encourage Pakistani countermeasures in Afghanistan or India\". The scarcely veiled threat of further bloodbaths such as Mumbai prompted renewed anger in the Indian media.India has responded cautiously. Indian defence minister AK Antony insisted \"categorically \u2026 there is no question of Indian military involvement in Afghanistan \u2026 not now, not in the future\". A former head of India's foreign intelligence service has said that \"sending troops \u2026 is not an option\".There are sound and perhaps compelling reasons for this reticence. There remain bitter memories of the 1,200 deaths suffered by an Indian peacekeeping force in Sri Lanka, and although Indian security forces have six decades of counterinsurgency experience, they face multiple intensifying guerilla wars at home from Maoists and separatists. Moreover, India's coalition politics, featuring local parties with parochial interests, is hardly suited to sustaining ambitious foreign policies.Yet more than 1,000 members of the paramilitary Indo-Tibetan Border Police are deployed in Afghanistan. President Obama's affirmation to withdraw US forces by 2011 has generated a prospective vacuum, inducing Pakistan to renew its support for the Taliban. This has produced loudening, though still marginal, Indian voices in favour of more boots on the ground.Amir Taheri, writing in The Times, suggests that a military commitment is \"surprisingly popular in India\". One former diplomat argues that \"influential sections of Indian opinion are stridently calling for an outright Indian intervention in Afghanistan without awaiting the niceties of an American invitation letter\".The editor of the \"realist\" journal Pragati writes that \"military involvement \u2026 will shift the battleground away from Kashmir and the Indian mainland\". An affiliated blog draws on the idea of \"force fungibility\" to argue that \"since it is not feasible for Indian troops to directly attack Pakistan's military-jihadi complex, India should ensure that US troops do so\" by \"reliev[ing them] of duties in areas where they are not actually fighting the Taliban \u2013 especially in western and northern Afghanistan\".Others have suggested that \"the best contribution \u2026 might be in the areas of combat training and creating capacities in logistics and communications\", still sorely lacking in the embryonic Afghan national army.Support for the war is faltering in western capitals, partly because citizens cannot see how it furthers homeland security. The frequency and scale of attacks on India mean that Indians have no such trouble. National caveats on force employment \u2013 particularly from France, Italy, and Germany \u2013 hinder the efficacy of Nato troops, but Indian casualty sensitivity is almost certainly less than that in, say, Britain.India's longstanding cultural ties to Afghanistan \u2013 Bollywood movies are wildly popular there, for instance \u2013 mean that Indian soldiers would be less likely to be stigmatised as occupiers, with 73% of Afghans professing a favourable view of India (and 91% holding the opposite view of Pakistan).India is also experienced at counterinsurgency, enjoys good relations with regional powers such as Iran and Russia (including bases in Tajikistan), and the large reserves of available forces. India has nearly 9,000 troops with the UN, and just withdrew 30,000 from Jammu and Kashmir.The obstacle to India's involvement is Pakistan. Yet few stop to evaluate the absurdity of having \"today's most active sponsor of terrorism\" as a frontline ally against terrorists. In December 2009, the New York Times reported Pakistan's refusal to crack down on Siraj Haqqani, the strongest Taliban commander in Afghanistan, on the basis that he was a \"longtime asset of Pakistan's spy agency\".The truth downplayed in western capitals is that India is one of the only interested parties, the US included, that has an interest in both state-building and counterterrorism on the Afghan side of the Durand line. Creating incentives for it to expand its provision of security could lay the groundwork for a commitment that will last long after the last western soldier is flown \u2013 or desperately airlifted \u2013 out of Kabul.", "tags": ["World news", "Afghanistan", "India", "Pakistan", "US news", "US foreign policy", "Politics", "Foreign policy", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Let India help Afghanistan | Shashank Joshi"},{"date": "2009-12-02T21:29:51Z", "country": "india", "content": "India became the last of the \"big four\" polluters to reveal its opening hand in the negotiations today, ahead of the crucial climate change talks in Copenhagen next week.Government sources revealed the country could curb the carbon emitted relative to the growth of its economy \u2013 its carbon intensity \u2013 by 24% by 2020.The target would mean emissions would continue to rise as the government aims to lift millions out of poverty, but by less than currently predicted.The leaked figure days after the announcement last week that China would cut its carbon intensity by more than 40% by 2020. The EU has already pledged a 20% cut in carbon emissions by 2020 \u2013 set to rise to 30% if other developed countries match the European target \u2013 while the US last month proposed cuts of 17%. These four are expected to emit almost two-thirds of the carbon between now and 2050.Comparing the targets is complicated. India and China's target are for carbon intensity, but they at least use the same base year, 2005. The EU uses 1990 as a base year, while the US uses 2005. But observers see all the targets as below what scientists say are needed to give an even chance of keeping temperature rise below the dangerous limit of 2C.\"If India offers an emissions target, even if it's relative to their economic growth, it's a very welcome step,\" said Bryony Worthington, founder of campaign group Sandbag. \"It's yet another sign that rapidly developing countries see the potential for green growth. Europe now needs to up its game and commit to targets which really get to grips with our apparently unshakeable addiction to carbon.\"Sources told the Indian media that the reduction in carbon intensity could go up to 37% by 2030, compared with 2005. India's environment minister, Jairam Ramesh, is expected to make a statement in parliament tomorrow to announce the targets. To reduce emissions, India's national action plan on climate change sees increasing solar power generation and improving energy efficiency as a route to \"greener growth\". In August, India laid out an ambitious plan to generate 20GW of solar power by 2020, which could equate to 75% of the world's solar energy.The country, which is the fourth-highest emitter of greenhouse gases, has been under pressure from developed nations to announce its plan to control emissions.The \"voluntary reductions\" were first floated by Ramesh last week during talks with the Chinese prime minister. He told journalists then that India could not afford to be seen as lagging behind in other nations in offering to act.A senior government official, who declined to be named, told Reuters that India's final targets, likely to be presented in Copenhagen, could reflect a broad range rather than a specific figure.The momentum generated by the succession of announcements on targets may throw attention on to the issue of funding for climate adaptation in poorer nations.Delhi has been a hardliner in the negotiations saying it won't accept legally binding emission caps and offered only to keep per-capita output of carbon lower than that of richer nations. The average Indian's carbon footprint is eight times smaller than the average person in Britain.", "tags": ["Greenhouse gas emissions", "Climate change", "India", "Environment", "World news", "Copenhagen climate change conference 2009", "Global climate talks"], "title": "India reveals carbon emission targets"},{"date": "2009-12-11T15:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "India, where I come from, is beautiful, dignified and wise \u2013 just like my grandmother, Nani ma (grandmother in Hindi). The insight and depth of argument India brings to the table at the climate change conference in Copenhagen is well researched and reflects its experience in negotiating for years.When India was young, developed countries were busy polluting the world and India, now that it is coming of age, is calling for them to take ambitious binding commitments as per their historical responsibilities and to help India age gracefully by giving it adequate finance and technology to grow, but on a low-carbon pathway.India is the second most populous country in the world and releases the fifth largest amount of emissions \u2013 yet I would argue that it has almost negligible per capita emissions, as most of the population is so poor. Poverty has actually grown over years, no doubt down to our inability to correlate growth with better standards of living, which is perhaps why we figure very low on the Human Development Index compared to other developing economies. So it's somewhat unfair to club us together with China \u2013 we're neither as old nor as polluting as our next-door neighbour.Despite all this India really has behaved more maturely than its age might suggest. Recently in parliament, Jairam Ramesh, our environment and forests minister, announced that the country would reduce the intensity of carbon by 24% by 2020. India has also ratified the Kyoto protocol and come out with a national action plan on climate change, which has eight missions, one of which is among the most ambitious solar projects, to generate about 20 gigawatts of power by 2022 and another to enhance renewable energy sources.But my grandmother always tells me how much money she has, but she'd never allow me to search her purse. Similarly India will give biannual reports to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) about its emissions reduction actions but will never allow international scrutiny for its domestically funded actions. It would also like all the finance offered to be additional and not as a Christmas gift (read official development assistance).Grandmothers also hold on to traditions. India has always put forward its view that the text being negotiated in Copenhagen is not in line with the convention (UNFCCC body principles) and the Bali Action Plan which was enforced by parties at the landmark COP13 in Bali. It feels that the text favours rich countries and most of the statements try to move away from the principles that have been agreed upon.This was again reflected in the recent tussle between the small island states and the advanced developing economies on whether to start discussions on amending the Kyoto protocol and bring in a new protocol. Since the Kyoto protocol acknowledges the differences between rich and poor nations with individually tailored responsibilities (one of the only global negotiations where this holds true), India will continue to defend it and block any move that would enable the richer countries to buy time and commit less and the conference to deviate from its core agenda.I often remind my grandmother that you need to accept we live in a new world. I urge the Indian government to see that it is putting so many people's lives at risk, including many of my own friends from the island nations. Could it not do anything to get a more ambitious deal? Could it not push the US harder, take the mike and make a bold statement that the European Union should show leadership?I am sure that the reasons for it blocking Tuvalu's proposal to amend the Kyoto protocol is not to escape from its own responsibilities but to make sure that developed countries' overdue obligations are committed first and attention from them is not diverted .India wants to ensure a deal in Copenhagen. When your grandmother needs to convince you, she would try to use all the ploys she could. India needs to do the same. It should empower its stakeholders to raise their voices and aggressively engage with the Indian media, civil society, youth and indigenous communities to progressively put pressure on the developed nations to deliver on their responsibilities.Be vocal and bold. That's all I ask.", "tags": ["Copenhagen climate change conference 2009", "India", "Climate change", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Kyoto protocol", "Environment", "World news", "Global climate talks"], "title": "India must speak out at Copenhagen | Leela Raina"},{"date": "2009-11-29T17:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "In 2005 I spent time with a student named Rajesh in Meerut College, in Uttar Pradesh. Rajesh was in his early 30s and had been studying in Meerut for 13 years. Like many long-time students there, he described himself as \"unemployed\", someone \"just waiting\".There are many like Rajesh in Meerut and across northern India. Behind the image of tech-savvy IT specialists in India lies a dispiriting picture common throughout Asia, Africa and Latin America: a multitude of educated but unemployed young men.The sources of this problem are not difficult to identify: rising education rates have led to higher aspirations around the world. At the same time, governments have often cut the public sector jobs upon which educated people formerly depended. The result in numerous places has been the \"overproduction\" of educated people: the \"men hanging out on the street\" that seem to feature in so many travel accounts and contemporary anthropologies of poorer countries.Over the past 15 years I have been doing research funded by the Economic and Social Research Council on the problem of educated unemployment in Uttar Pradesh, whose 190m people make it India's most populous state. Many parents in Uttar Pradesh are able to finance school and university education for their children. But these graduates find it impossible to obtain salaried jobs.The sheer scale of the problem of youth unemployment is staggering. There are regularly more than 10,000 applicants for a single government post in Meerut. Students there tell me that to get a job it is now necessary to possess \"source\" (social connections) and \"force\" (the money for bribes).Students' anger is compounded by their fury at educational decay. Lack of investment in higher education and widespread corruption in many universities has undermined the value of students' degrees. Things came to a head in 2006 when it emerged that, as an economy measure, the registrar of a prominent university in Meerut had been sending masters theses to be marked by school pupils, some allegedly as young as eight. When students discovered what had happened, they came into the streets to burn their degrees.Some young people in Meerut give up on the search for salaried work and return to farming or manual labour. There are MAs, even PhDs, working in the fields of Uttar Pradesh. But like Rajesh, many students respond to unemployment by simply remaining in education, collecting degrees, and hoping that their luck will change.What are the social and political implications of this mass unemployment? At the family level, the impact is marked. Those unsuccessful in finding decent, permanent jobs often face parents who resent scrimping and saving for their sons' education. Parents often complain about the sacrifices they made to educate their children. Moreover, young women sometimes work in the field to keep their brothers in college \u2013 and this has led to many tensions between siblings.What of political unrest? Commentators in the past have tended to imagine these men as either politically apathetic or violent threats to civilised society. My research \u2013 which involved years of interviewing and hanging out with young men \u2013 has tried to move beyond these stereotypes. To be sure, some unemployed young men have been involved in violence, such as the Hindu/Muslim riots and pogroms that erupted in India in the early 1990s. But the reality may be more mundane. Jobless young men have adopted one of two strategies in contemporary Uttar Pradesh. Some use their free time and skills to advocate on behalf of the poor. There are many such \"social reformers\" in Meerut, who often voice critiques of the Indian state, but tend to avoid violence.A second group work as political entrepreneurs at the local level: they call themselves \"fixers\". These men traded on their knowledge of how politics works at the local level, to sell places in private universities, extract bribes from government officials, or steer contracts towards favoured businessmen. These men do use violence and their actions encourage the further proliferation of corruption in Uttar Pradesh.Mass unemployment among the educated in India may have contradictory implications. On the one hand, it may lead to the emergence of a set of people who can play key development roles in the countryside and small towns. These bright young \"social reformers\" are keen to find outlets for their zeal. On the other hand, there are many young men whose joblessness has provoked aggressive individualism and an \"anyhow\" mentality when it comes to making money. The Indian government and international organisations need to get much better at enrolling the first group into processes of planned development, and persuading the second group to redirect their energy in more positive directions.The time is also ripe for a broader discussion of mass unemployment among educated young people across the world. What do they have in common? How do their responses differ? How might governments and others address the problem? The answers to these questions are likely to reveal a great deal not only about youth the world over, but about the chance of progressive social change in places like India.", "tags": ["India", "Unemployment and employment statistics", "Young people", "Society", "World news", "Business"], "title": "Young, educated and jobless in India | Craig Jeffrey"},{"date": "2009-11-26T00:10:01Z", "country": "india", "content": "India's army is the second largest in the world, but its security forces were left flailing by the Mumbai attacks.Fifteen policemen were killed and, according to reports, others simply abandoned their posts. Some officers who confronted the attackers were armed only with canes.One senior officer was shot dead even though he was wearing a bullet-proof vest: the armour was so old it came apart in the volley of bullets. The raid left the force, in the words of one policeman, \"demoralised and looking like we could not take a bullet\".The response of the authorities has been to beef up security, with armed guards in public areas and doorway metal detectors in stations and hotels. But at the main railway terminal commuters still dodge security checks and bags are not searched. The new police commissioner, D Sivanandan, appointed in June, says he has a \"mission to motivate\" and has bought troop carriers, amphibious craft and an arsenal of 2,000 heavy weapons including machine guns and high-velocity sniper rifles. Another 1,000 men have been deployed in anti-terror quick response squads. He has also asked for 4,800 new security cameras to cover the city's hot spots. \"We have to accept a terrorist attack can happen anywhere,\" said Sivanandan. \"London, Madrid, New York. We are not perfect. In the west you have better homeland security, but you spend a lot more money. We are inching towards perfection.\"His ultimate boss, however, India's home minister, Palaniappan Chidambaram, was more circumspect. Last month he said: \"My assessment of the vulnerability is that it has remained the same since 26/11.\"", "tags": ["Mumbai terror attacks", "India", "World news"], "title": "India stepping up security after Mumbai attacks"},{"date": "2009-12-25T10:00:01Z", "country": "india", "content": "In the 19th century, Indian armies twice crossed the Hindu Kush, hoping to stitch together the patchwork political authority of the territory in the service of their British masters. Over a century later, the sovereign republic of India once more has a renewed presence in what was once its mountainous buffer from the Tsarist, and then Soviet, giant to the north.A year ago, Indians completed the construction of Afghanistan's new parliament building and, to compound the symbolism, provided training to the legislators who would make the country's laws. Over a billion dollars in aid and investment, multiple consulates, and a little-reported thousand-strong troop presence all testify to the flourishing ties between the two democracies.India is Afghanistan's fifth-largest donor, pledging $1.2bn since 2001 and providing aid that spans education, health and infrastructure. The most eye-catching project, a 215km road connecting the Iranian border to Afghanistan's arterial highway, will eventually allow India to transport goods by sea to an Iranian port it is developing, and thence to Afghanistan and beyond. This circumvents the overland route, blocked by Pakistan, but also gives a fillip to Indo-Afghan trade ($538m during 2007-8). Hamid Karzai, himself educated in India and the beneficiary of Indian military support during the 1990s, visited India four times in the first five years of his tenure. The Afghan national army, the linchpin of the new American strategy to pacify the country, receives training across India.Not everyone is happy with the widening Indian footprint. Pakistan, long reliant on Afghanistan as a source of \"strategic depth\" has invoked fears of encirclement and Indian-sponsored separatism. This is in addition to the panoply of wild \"conspiracy theorists who insist that every one of Pakistan's ills are there because of interference by the US, India, Israel and Afghanistan\", says Ahmed Rashid, a noted Pakistani journalist.Among other attacks, a car bomb at the Indian embassy in Kabul killed 41 in July 2008. According to the New York Times, American officials quickly presented \"intercepted communications between Pakistani intelligence officers and militants who carried out the attack\" to demonstrate Pakistani culpability and \"the ISI officers had not been renegades\".Then in September 2009, General Stanley McChrystal, the commander of the International Security Assistance Force, suggested in a leaked assessment of the war that \"while Indian activities largely benefit the Afghan people, increasing Indian influence in Afghanistan is likely to exacerbate regional tensions and encourage Pakistani countermeasures in Afghanistan or India\". The scarcely veiled threat of further bloodbaths such as Mumbai prompted renewed anger in the Indian media.India has responded cautiously. Indian defence minister AK Antony insisted \"categorically \u2026 there is no question of Indian military involvement in Afghanistan \u2026 not now, not in the future\". A former head of India's foreign intelligence service has said that \"sending troops \u2026 is not an option\".There are sound and perhaps compelling reasons for this reticence. There remain bitter memories of the 1,200 deaths suffered by an Indian peacekeeping force in Sri Lanka, and although Indian security forces have six decades of counterinsurgency experience, they face multiple intensifying guerilla wars at home from Maoists and separatists. Moreover, India's coalition politics, featuring local parties with parochial interests, is hardly suited to sustaining ambitious foreign policies.Yet more than 1,000 members of the paramilitary Indo-Tibetan Border Police are deployed in Afghanistan. President Obama's affirmation to withdraw US forces by 2011 has generated a prospective vacuum, inducing Pakistan to renew its support for the Taliban. This has produced loudening, though still marginal, Indian voices in favour of more boots on the ground.Amir Taheri, writing in The Times, suggests that a military commitment is \"surprisingly popular in India\". One former diplomat argues that \"influential sections of Indian opinion are stridently calling for an outright Indian intervention in Afghanistan without awaiting the niceties of an American invitation letter\".The editor of the \"realist\" journal Pragati writes that \"military involvement \u2026 will shift the battleground away from Kashmir and the Indian mainland\". An affiliated blog draws on the idea of \"force fungibility\" to argue that \"since it is not feasible for Indian troops to directly attack Pakistan's military-jihadi complex, India should ensure that US troops do so\" by \"reliev[ing them] of duties in areas where they are not actually fighting the Taliban \u2013 especially in western and northern Afghanistan\".Others have suggested that \"the best contribution \u2026 might be in the areas of combat training and creating capacities in logistics and communications\", still sorely lacking in the embryonic Afghan national army.Support for the war is faltering in western capitals, partly because citizens cannot see how it furthers homeland security. The frequency and scale of attacks on India mean that Indians have no such trouble. National caveats on force employment \u2013 particularly from France, Italy, and Germany \u2013 hinder the efficacy of Nato troops, but Indian casualty sensitivity is almost certainly less than that in, say, Britain.India's longstanding cultural ties to Afghanistan \u2013 Bollywood movies are wildly popular there, for instance \u2013 mean that Indian soldiers would be less likely to be stigmatised as occupiers, with 73% of Afghans professing a favourable view of India (and 91% holding the opposite view of Pakistan).India is also experienced at counterinsurgency, enjoys good relations with regional powers such as Iran and Russia (including bases in Tajikistan), and the large reserves of available forces. India has nearly 9,000 troops with the UN, and just withdrew 30,000 from Jammu and Kashmir.The obstacle to India's involvement is Pakistan. Yet few stop to evaluate the absurdity of having \"today's most active sponsor of terrorism\" as a frontline ally against terrorists. In December 2009, the New York Times reported Pakistan's refusal to crack down on Siraj Haqqani, the strongest Taliban commander in Afghanistan, on the basis that he was a \"longtime asset of Pakistan's spy agency\".The truth downplayed in western capitals is that India is one of the only interested parties, the US included, that has an interest in both state-building and counterterrorism on the Afghan side of the Durand line. Creating incentives for it to expand its provision of security could lay the groundwork for a commitment that will last long after the last western soldier is flown \u2013 or desperately airlifted \u2013 out of Kabul.", "tags": ["World news", "Afghanistan", "India", "Pakistan", "US news", "US foreign policy", "Politics", "Foreign policy", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Let India help Afghanistan | Shashank Joshi"},{"date": "2009-12-02T21:29:51Z", "country": "india", "content": "India became the last of the \"big four\" polluters to reveal its opening hand in the negotiations today, ahead of the crucial climate change talks in Copenhagen next week.Government sources revealed the country could curb the carbon emitted relative to the growth of its economy \u2013 its carbon intensity \u2013 by 24% by 2020.The target would mean emissions would continue to rise as the government aims to lift millions out of poverty, but by less than currently predicted.The leaked figure days after the announcement last week that China would cut its carbon intensity by more than 40% by 2020. The EU has already pledged a 20% cut in carbon emissions by 2020 \u2013 set to rise to 30% if other developed countries match the European target \u2013 while the US last month proposed cuts of 17%. These four are expected to emit almost two-thirds of the carbon between now and 2050.Comparing the targets is complicated. India and China's target are for carbon intensity, but they at least use the same base year, 2005. The EU uses 1990 as a base year, while the US uses 2005. But observers see all the targets as below what scientists say are needed to give an even chance of keeping temperature rise below the dangerous limit of 2C.\"If India offers an emissions target, even if it's relative to their economic growth, it's a very welcome step,\" said Bryony Worthington, founder of campaign group Sandbag. \"It's yet another sign that rapidly developing countries see the potential for green growth. Europe now needs to up its game and commit to targets which really get to grips with our apparently unshakeable addiction to carbon.\"Sources told the Indian media that the reduction in carbon intensity could go up to 37% by 2030, compared with 2005. India's environment minister, Jairam Ramesh, is expected to make a statement in parliament tomorrow to announce the targets. To reduce emissions, India's national action plan on climate change sees increasing solar power generation and improving energy efficiency as a route to \"greener growth\". In August, India laid out an ambitious plan to generate 20GW of solar power by 2020, which could equate to 75% of the world's solar energy.The country, which is the fourth-highest emitter of greenhouse gases, has been under pressure from developed nations to announce its plan to control emissions.The \"voluntary reductions\" were first floated by Ramesh last week during talks with the Chinese prime minister. He told journalists then that India could not afford to be seen as lagging behind in other nations in offering to act.A senior government official, who declined to be named, told Reuters that India's final targets, likely to be presented in Copenhagen, could reflect a broad range rather than a specific figure.The momentum generated by the succession of announcements on targets may throw attention on to the issue of funding for climate adaptation in poorer nations.Delhi has been a hardliner in the negotiations saying it won't accept legally binding emission caps and offered only to keep per-capita output of carbon lower than that of richer nations. The average Indian's carbon footprint is eight times smaller than the average person in Britain.", "tags": ["Greenhouse gas emissions", "Climate change", "India", "Environment", "World news", "Copenhagen climate change conference 2009", "Global climate talks"], "title": "India reveals carbon emission targets"},{"date": "2009-12-11T15:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "India, where I come from, is beautiful, dignified and wise \u2013 just like my grandmother, Nani ma (grandmother in Hindi). The insight and depth of argument India brings to the table at the climate change conference in Copenhagen is well researched and reflects its experience in negotiating for years.When India was young, developed countries were busy polluting the world and India, now that it is coming of age, is calling for them to take ambitious binding commitments as per their historical responsibilities and to help India age gracefully by giving it adequate finance and technology to grow, but on a low-carbon pathway.India is the second most populous country in the world and releases the fifth largest amount of emissions \u2013 yet I would argue that it has almost negligible per capita emissions, as most of the population is so poor. Poverty has actually grown over years, no doubt down to our inability to correlate growth with better standards of living, which is perhaps why we figure very low on the Human Development Index compared to other developing economies. So it's somewhat unfair to club us together with China \u2013 we're neither as old nor as polluting as our next-door neighbour.Despite all this India really has behaved more maturely than its age might suggest. Recently in parliament, Jairam Ramesh, our environment and forests minister, announced that the country would reduce the intensity of carbon by 24% by 2020. India has also ratified the Kyoto protocol and come out with a national action plan on climate change, which has eight missions, one of which is among the most ambitious solar projects, to generate about 20 gigawatts of power by 2022 and another to enhance renewable energy sources.But my grandmother always tells me how much money she has, but she'd never allow me to search her purse. Similarly India will give biannual reports to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) about its emissions reduction actions but will never allow international scrutiny for its domestically funded actions. It would also like all the finance offered to be additional and not as a Christmas gift (read official development assistance).Grandmothers also hold on to traditions. India has always put forward its view that the text being negotiated in Copenhagen is not in line with the convention (UNFCCC body principles) and the Bali Action Plan which was enforced by parties at the landmark COP13 in Bali. It feels that the text favours rich countries and most of the statements try to move away from the principles that have been agreed upon.This was again reflected in the recent tussle between the small island states and the advanced developing economies on whether to start discussions on amending the Kyoto protocol and bring in a new protocol. Since the Kyoto protocol acknowledges the differences between rich and poor nations with individually tailored responsibilities (one of the only global negotiations where this holds true), India will continue to defend it and block any move that would enable the richer countries to buy time and commit less and the conference to deviate from its core agenda.I often remind my grandmother that you need to accept we live in a new world. I urge the Indian government to see that it is putting so many people's lives at risk, including many of my own friends from the island nations. Could it not do anything to get a more ambitious deal? Could it not push the US harder, take the mike and make a bold statement that the European Union should show leadership?I am sure that the reasons for it blocking Tuvalu's proposal to amend the Kyoto protocol is not to escape from its own responsibilities but to make sure that developed countries' overdue obligations are committed first and attention from them is not diverted .India wants to ensure a deal in Copenhagen. When your grandmother needs to convince you, she would try to use all the ploys she could. India needs to do the same. It should empower its stakeholders to raise their voices and aggressively engage with the Indian media, civil society, youth and indigenous communities to progressively put pressure on the developed nations to deliver on their responsibilities.Be vocal and bold. That's all I ask.", "tags": ["Copenhagen climate change conference 2009", "India", "Climate change", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Kyoto protocol", "Environment", "World news", "Global climate talks"], "title": "India must speak out at Copenhagen | Leela Raina"},{"date": "2009-11-29T17:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "In 2005 I spent time with a student named Rajesh in Meerut College, in Uttar Pradesh. Rajesh was in his early 30s and had been studying in Meerut for 13 years. Like many long-time students there, he described himself as \"unemployed\", someone \"just waiting\".There are many like Rajesh in Meerut and across northern India. Behind the image of tech-savvy IT specialists in India lies a dispiriting picture common throughout Asia, Africa and Latin America: a multitude of educated but unemployed young men.The sources of this problem are not difficult to identify: rising education rates have led to higher aspirations around the world. At the same time, governments have often cut the public sector jobs upon which educated people formerly depended. The result in numerous places has been the \"overproduction\" of educated people: the \"men hanging out on the street\" that seem to feature in so many travel accounts and contemporary anthropologies of poorer countries.Over the past 15 years I have been doing research funded by the Economic and Social Research Council on the problem of educated unemployment in Uttar Pradesh, whose 190m people make it India's most populous state. Many parents in Uttar Pradesh are able to finance school and university education for their children. But these graduates find it impossible to obtain salaried jobs.The sheer scale of the problem of youth unemployment is staggering. There are regularly more than 10,000 applicants for a single government post in Meerut. Students there tell me that to get a job it is now necessary to possess \"source\" (social connections) and \"force\" (the money for bribes).Students' anger is compounded by their fury at educational decay. Lack of investment in higher education and widespread corruption in many universities has undermined the value of students' degrees. Things came to a head in 2006 when it emerged that, as an economy measure, the registrar of a prominent university in Meerut had been sending masters theses to be marked by school pupils, some allegedly as young as eight. When students discovered what had happened, they came into the streets to burn their degrees.Some young people in Meerut give up on the search for salaried work and return to farming or manual labour. There are MAs, even PhDs, working in the fields of Uttar Pradesh. But like Rajesh, many students respond to unemployment by simply remaining in education, collecting degrees, and hoping that their luck will change.What are the social and political implications of this mass unemployment? At the family level, the impact is marked. Those unsuccessful in finding decent, permanent jobs often face parents who resent scrimping and saving for their sons' education. Parents often complain about the sacrifices they made to educate their children. Moreover, young women sometimes work in the field to keep their brothers in college \u2013 and this has led to many tensions between siblings.What of political unrest? Commentators in the past have tended to imagine these men as either politically apathetic or violent threats to civilised society. My research \u2013 which involved years of interviewing and hanging out with young men \u2013 has tried to move beyond these stereotypes. To be sure, some unemployed young men have been involved in violence, such as the Hindu/Muslim riots and pogroms that erupted in India in the early 1990s. But the reality may be more mundane. Jobless young men have adopted one of two strategies in contemporary Uttar Pradesh. Some use their free time and skills to advocate on behalf of the poor. There are many such \"social reformers\" in Meerut, who often voice critiques of the Indian state, but tend to avoid violence.A second group work as political entrepreneurs at the local level: they call themselves \"fixers\". These men traded on their knowledge of how politics works at the local level, to sell places in private universities, extract bribes from government officials, or steer contracts towards favoured businessmen. These men do use violence and their actions encourage the further proliferation of corruption in Uttar Pradesh.Mass unemployment among the educated in India may have contradictory implications. On the one hand, it may lead to the emergence of a set of people who can play key development roles in the countryside and small towns. These bright young \"social reformers\" are keen to find outlets for their zeal. On the other hand, there are many young men whose joblessness has provoked aggressive individualism and an \"anyhow\" mentality when it comes to making money. The Indian government and international organisations need to get much better at enrolling the first group into processes of planned development, and persuading the second group to redirect their energy in more positive directions.The time is also ripe for a broader discussion of mass unemployment among educated young people across the world. What do they have in common? How do their responses differ? How might governments and others address the problem? The answers to these questions are likely to reveal a great deal not only about youth the world over, but about the chance of progressive social change in places like India.", "tags": ["India", "Unemployment and employment statistics", "Young people", "Society", "World news", "Business"], "title": "Young, educated and jobless in India | Craig Jeffrey"},{"date": "2009-11-26T00:10:01Z", "country": "india", "content": "India's army is the second largest in the world, but its security forces were left flailing by the Mumbai attacks.Fifteen policemen were killed and, according to reports, others simply abandoned their posts. Some officers who confronted the attackers were armed only with canes.One senior officer was shot dead even though he was wearing a bullet-proof vest: the armour was so old it came apart in the volley of bullets. The raid left the force, in the words of one policeman, \"demoralised and looking like we could not take a bullet\".The response of the authorities has been to beef up security, with armed guards in public areas and doorway metal detectors in stations and hotels. But at the main railway terminal commuters still dodge security checks and bags are not searched. The new police commissioner, D Sivanandan, appointed in June, says he has a \"mission to motivate\" and has bought troop carriers, amphibious craft and an arsenal of 2,000 heavy weapons including machine guns and high-velocity sniper rifles. Another 1,000 men have been deployed in anti-terror quick response squads. He has also asked for 4,800 new security cameras to cover the city's hot spots. \"We have to accept a terrorist attack can happen anywhere,\" said Sivanandan. \"London, Madrid, New York. We are not perfect. In the west you have better homeland security, but you spend a lot more money. We are inching towards perfection.\"His ultimate boss, however, India's home minister, Palaniappan Chidambaram, was more circumspect. Last month he said: \"My assessment of the vulnerability is that it has remained the same since 26/11.\"", "tags": ["Mumbai terror attacks", "India", "World news"], "title": "India stepping up security after Mumbai attacks"},{"date": "2009-11-20T09:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "My parents escaped from Tibet in 1959 and I was born in India in 1962. During the journey, many people became sick and many also died from the heat, including my elder sister. When my parents reached Nepal, they stayed there for two years and then moved on to Shimla. In India they had a language problem, which made it difficult for them to work, and so they struggled to provide food for the family. My mother found work in the street, making roads, along with many other Tibetans who were also working on the roads.  When I was seven years of age, we moved from Shimla to Dharamsala, and we lived in a small tent near the bus station. My mother and father had no work there, so my father used to go into the jungle to cut down trees. Then one day, the Dalai Lama's sister Jetsun Pema, was passing by, and in seeing our condition she picked us up from the road and took me and my younger brother to be educated in a school.The school was like a Tibetan children's village for orphans or semi-orphans, meaning for those who have parents who cannot support them, as they don't know how to live in India. At that time, there were around 3,000 children in the village, but now there are a lot more, and although I don't know how many, there are a lot more than people know about. This school was the best thing in my life because my mother was unable to make the money needed to support us. Then when I was twelve years old I became very sick and spent a lot of time in hospital. On one occasion I nearly died \u2013 I had malaria three times and then I had tuberculosis. It meant that I could not finish my studies, but the school looked after me, and then when I was better, the principal decided to select some of us to go on courses.I was to be sent to Delhi for a nursing course, but my mother said that I was too sick and too weak to go there, and so instead she selected for me to do handicrafts. For three years I did tailoring in the handicraft centre, making school uniforms and many other things, and then after that they sent me to Ladakh.It was there that I met my boyfriend who was in the Tibetan army, and then I became pregnant. I spent one and a half years there, during which time my first child was born. Although we had a house and food, it was still difficult for me. It was just too cold, and so we talked together and decided that I should leave Ladakh for a warmer place. So from there I went to Rajput, to a Tibetan women's centre, where I trained again in tailoring, and worked there for three more years.But my husband was not good with me - he was always drinking and he started beating me. Then I was pregnant again, and my sister was so worried about me that she decided to help me start a business. Although she could not support me financially, she gave me some things to sell and through that, I started the business .Then when my younger son was five years old, my husband died from alcoholism and I was left to struggle with two young children.During the next ten years I moved to Ladakh, Goa, and Kerala \u2013 I was the first Tibetan to go there. Then I started a business in Varkala, Kerala, where I stayed for three years. But the local people in Varkala were very bad \u2013 they were always surrounding me and watching how much money I was making. Then they started making problems for me, by demanding money from me and telling me that this was their place and I should not be there.I moved to Kovalam, where at first there was not much of a problem, so I moved my mother there. Again, I have so many worries here with the neighbours. The restaurant people beat my sons for no reason and again I am living in fear. There is no peace in my mind and I cannot concentrate on my business because I keep thinking about other things all the time. There are a lot of disturbances in my mind, so I am thinking of moving again, for the last time. I am thinking it might be the same everywhere, but at least you get peace for one year. Maybe I will move north to Maharashtra \u2013 I have heard that it is a place where the tourists come. I will move with only my sons this time. Now they are aged 20 and 24 years, and I want to do something to help my elder son who is very talented. He does Thanka painting which is very demanding and I want to send him to Missouri to do his studies. Otherwise he will have to do business and business is not good. I am an independent woman and I can work hard. Even if I have a problem I don't ask people \u2013 I have my pride. We were born in India, but we have no Indian citizenship. We cannot buy any land or property here. We are not allowed an Indian passport and so if we want to go abroad, we have to apply to the Tibetan Government for an identity certificate, which can take a very long time (although some smart Tibetan people do have an Indian passport, but I don't know how). Talking makes me feel good. You can't always cry alone, sometimes you need somebody to share the feelings.\u2022 Karma was interviewed by Jill Fordham.", "tags": ["Tibet", "India", "Refugees"], "title": "From Tibet to India: a refugee's story"},{"date": "2010-02-14T00:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Sometimes romance is a quiet connection rather than an intense declaration\u2026 which is why the most romantic moment in my life was on the night train from Varanasi to Delhi, when Christopher and I were barely even speaking.It was no one's fault, our six weeks' travelling around India had been astonishing: we moved open-mouthed from grand palaces to colourful markets, past adorable kids in neat school uniforms, to people living \u2013 quite literally \u2013 in holes in the wall. But now our senses were saturated and our wonder worn to a nub: we quietly shuffled on to the night train and into our bunks, barely exchanging a word.I don't know about Chris, but I was asleep in seconds \u2013 and the second-class sleeper compartment on an Indian train is not a quiet place. Snores of every pitch rang back and forth among the bunks like grunting finalists at Wimbledon; children woke, startled, as the train lurched along the tracks; mothers sleepily sang snatches of unfamiliar songs.I woke at dawn when the train stopped briefly at a small station in Shikohabad Junction, 65km east of Agra, and small boys flooded on to the train, lugging huge silver kettles. Chris was obviously awake, too: he climbed into my bunk nursing two glasses of chai \u2013 the hot spicy tea made with condensed milk which would be undrinkable anywhere else, but on an Indian train at dawn is nothing short of ambrosial.Road weary and grubby and sleep-deprived, Chris and I quietly sipped our tea, looking out the window at the gathering dawn light. It revealed a quiet India: ordinary people going about their everyday lives on the Great Plains, the flat fertile lands irrigated by the Ganges and its tributaries. The train slowed as we passed a small boy driving bison through the watery rice paddies with lazy flicks of a stick. The sun grew higher, caught in distant rivers which snaked like burnished copper into the horizon. It was almost celestial in its beauty.Without speaking, Chris took my hand and squeezed it. We could have slept through to Delhi \u2013 kept our energy for the last push of big sightseeing blockbusters. But instead we'd found and shared this quiet moment of light and simplicity. It felt like a gift.Jennifer Cox is the author of Around the World in 80 Dates (\u00a37.99, Arrow). The overnight train from Varanasi to Delhi costs \u00a313 one way (www.irctc.co.in). Emirates (www.emirates.com) flies from Heathrow to Varanasi from \u00a3608. Ffestiniog Travel (01766 772 030; www.festtravel.co.uk) has a six-night package from \u00a31,150, including flights from Heathrow, three nights each in Varanasi and Delhi, and the train journey from Varanasi to Delhi in a first-class sleeper. For details go to www.incredibleindia.org", "tags": ["Travel", "India holidays"], "title": "Destination romance: Varanasi India"},{"date": "2010-02-14T00:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Sometimes romance is a quiet connection rather than an intense declaration\u2026 which is why the most romantic moment in my life was on the night train from Varanasi to Delhi, when Christopher and I were barely even speaking.It was no one's fault, our six weeks' travelling around India had been astonishing: we moved open-mouthed from grand palaces to colourful markets, past adorable kids in neat school uniforms, to people living \u2013 quite literally \u2013 in holes in the wall. But now our senses were saturated and our wonder worn to a nub: we quietly shuffled on to the night train and into our bunks, barely exchanging a word.I don't know about Chris, but I was asleep in seconds \u2013 and the second-class sleeper compartment on an Indian train is not a quiet place. Snores of every pitch rang back and forth among the bunks like grunting finalists at Wimbledon; children woke, startled, as the train lurched along the tracks; mothers sleepily sang snatches of unfamiliar songs.I woke at dawn when the train stopped briefly at a small station in Shikohabad Junction, 65km east of Agra, and small boys flooded on to the train, lugging huge silver kettles. Chris was obviously awake, too: he climbed into my bunk nursing two glasses of chai \u2013 the hot spicy tea made with condensed milk which would be undrinkable anywhere else, but on an Indian train at dawn is nothing short of ambrosial.Road weary and grubby and sleep-deprived, Chris and I quietly sipped our tea, looking out the window at the gathering dawn light. It revealed a quiet India: ordinary people going about their everyday lives on the Great Plains, the flat fertile lands irrigated by the Ganges and its tributaries. The train slowed as we passed a small boy driving bison through the watery rice paddies with lazy flicks of a stick. The sun grew higher, caught in distant rivers which snaked like burnished copper into the horizon. It was almost celestial in its beauty.Without speaking, Chris took my hand and squeezed it. We could have slept through to Delhi \u2013 kept our energy for the last push of big sightseeing blockbusters. But instead we'd found and shared this quiet moment of light and simplicity. It felt like a gift.Jennifer Cox is the author of Around the World in 80 Dates (\u00a37.99, Arrow). The overnight train from Varanasi to Delhi costs \u00a313 one way (www.irctc.co.in). Emirates (www.emirates.com) flies from Heathrow to Varanasi from \u00a3608. Ffestiniog Travel (01766 772 030; www.festtravel.co.uk) has a six-night package from \u00a31,150, including flights from Heathrow, three nights each in Varanasi and Delhi, and the train journey from Varanasi to Delhi in a first-class sleeper. For details go to www.incredibleindia.org", "tags": ["Travel", "India holidays"], "title": "Destination romance: Varanasi India"},{"date": "2010-03-01T18:17:59Z", "country": "india", "content": "At William Farr, a Church of England comprehensive in Welton, Lincolnshire, dance is part of an annual crosscurricular enrichment day on Indian culture. Year 9 students get a taste of bharatanatyam, kathak and other south Asian dance styles traditionally used for storytelling by watching and performing with dancers from Kala Sangam, a leading South Asian arts organisation.For a \"largely white middle-class school in the Lincolnshire countryside\", it is a way of extending children's understanding of other cultures, says Carole Lymn, head of religious studies, sociology and psychology.\"Working with the professionals, they achieve something they can be proud of in the space of an hour, which is pretty amazing to see.\"Bradford-based Kala Sangam deliver cross-cultural collaborative projects to schools nationwide, while also supporting subject teaching, according to its chief executive Gheeta Upadhyaya. \"Insecondary, for example, we support PE but also explore subjects such as maths through dance, looking at rhythm cycles and time signatures and bringing in elements of geometry and number patterns.\"Dance can be a powerful tool in other ways, she adds.\"There is definitely a lot of self-esteem building, team-work and general positivity that flows from the dances. Students are creating something themselves, it's not just us teaching them what to do.", "tags": ["March 2010"], "title": "Passage to India"},{"date": "2010-02-14T00:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Sometimes romance is a quiet connection rather than an intense declaration\u2026 which is why the most romantic moment in my life was on the night train from Varanasi to Delhi, when Christopher and I were barely even speaking.It was no one's fault, our six weeks' travelling around India had been astonishing: we moved open-mouthed from grand palaces to colourful markets, past adorable kids in neat school uniforms, to people living \u2013 quite literally \u2013 in holes in the wall. But now our senses were saturated and our wonder worn to a nub: we quietly shuffled on to the night train and into our bunks, barely exchanging a word.I don't know about Chris, but I was asleep in seconds \u2013 and the second-class sleeper compartment on an Indian train is not a quiet place. Snores of every pitch rang back and forth among the bunks like grunting finalists at Wimbledon; children woke, startled, as the train lurched along the tracks; mothers sleepily sang snatches of unfamiliar songs.I woke at dawn when the train stopped briefly at a small station in Shikohabad Junction, 65km east of Agra, and small boys flooded on to the train, lugging huge silver kettles. Chris was obviously awake, too: he climbed into my bunk nursing two glasses of chai \u2013 the hot spicy tea made with condensed milk which would be undrinkable anywhere else, but on an Indian train at dawn is nothing short of ambrosial.Road weary and grubby and sleep-deprived, Chris and I quietly sipped our tea, looking out the window at the gathering dawn light. It revealed a quiet India: ordinary people going about their everyday lives on the Great Plains, the flat fertile lands irrigated by the Ganges and its tributaries. The train slowed as we passed a small boy driving bison through the watery rice paddies with lazy flicks of a stick. The sun grew higher, caught in distant rivers which snaked like burnished copper into the horizon. It was almost celestial in its beauty.Without speaking, Chris took my hand and squeezed it. We could have slept through to Delhi \u2013 kept our energy for the last push of big sightseeing blockbusters. But instead we'd found and shared this quiet moment of light and simplicity. It felt like a gift.Jennifer Cox is the author of Around the World in 80 Dates (\u00a37.99, Arrow). The overnight train from Varanasi to Delhi costs \u00a313 one way (www.irctc.co.in). Emirates (www.emirates.com) flies from Heathrow to Varanasi from \u00a3608. Ffestiniog Travel (01766 772 030; www.festtravel.co.uk) has a six-night package from \u00a31,150, including flights from Heathrow, three nights each in Varanasi and Delhi, and the train journey from Varanasi to Delhi in a first-class sleeper. For details go to www.incredibleindia.org", "tags": ["Travel", "India holidays"], "title": "Destination romance: Varanasi India"},{"date": "2010-03-01T18:17:59Z", "country": "india", "content": "At William Farr, a Church of England comprehensive in Welton, Lincolnshire, dance is part of an annual crosscurricular enrichment day on Indian culture. Year 9 students get a taste of bharatanatyam, kathak and other south Asian dance styles traditionally used for storytelling by watching and performing with dancers from Kala Sangam, a leading South Asian arts organisation.For a \"largely white middle-class school in the Lincolnshire countryside\", it is a way of extending children's understanding of other cultures, says Carole Lymn, head of religious studies, sociology and psychology.\"Working with the professionals, they achieve something they can be proud of in the space of an hour, which is pretty amazing to see.\"Bradford-based Kala Sangam deliver cross-cultural collaborative projects to schools nationwide, while also supporting subject teaching, according to its chief executive Gheeta Upadhyaya. \"Insecondary, for example, we support PE but also explore subjects such as maths through dance, looking at rhythm cycles and time signatures and bringing in elements of geometry and number patterns.\"Dance can be a powerful tool in other ways, she adds.\"There is definitely a lot of self-esteem building, team-work and general positivity that flows from the dances. Students are creating something themselves, it's not just us teaching them what to do.", "tags": ["March 2010"], "title": "Passage to India"},{"date": "2010-02-10T09:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Rabiah is smiling. We're sitting in an emergency ward amongst rows of tiny beds filled with tiny children. They're all hooked up to intimidatingly large machinery. Mothers sit next to them, eyes tired and angst-ridden, faces drawn. Ten days ago Rabiah's ten-month-old twins were admitted to the same ward with life-threatening cases of respiratory tract infection. \"I thought they were going to die,\" Rabiah tells me.19-year-old Rabiah and her family are victims of Hurricane Aila \u2013 a brutal storm that affected the lives of millions of people in the Bengal region. Rabiah's family were rescued by an initiative to help malnourished families in the area.On-site doctor Subho Paul offers more insight into the twins' condition. \"Illnesses like this start with a common cold,\" he says. \"In the UK they'd be given a dose of Calpol.\"Here in India, however, underlying cases of malnutrition lead to such low immunity that even a small virus can throw a young child into a life-threatening state. These days it's not simply poverty that keeps families from being well-nourished: many can afford to eat but just don't know what to buy. Common misconceptions, such as choosing formula milk over breastfeeding, and expensive processed imports over local, nutritious fruit and vegetables, along with poor levels of hygiene and low rates of immunisation, all play a part in the shocking fact that a child in India dies every 15 seconds. Even more shocking is the fact that 70-80% of these life-threatening diseases are entirely preventable.With this in mind, the Child In Need India (Cini) was born. For over 35 years, teams of doctors, health workers and volunteers have been fighting to remove malnutrition from India's rural communities. Cini adopts a long-term approach, recognising that if you teach a mother how to help her own children, this new-found wisdom will have an effect on generations to come.Dr Paul shows me how people like Rabiah are helped to start changing their behaviour. \"Ten days ago, she would have been far too worried about her babies for us to preach to her about feeding habits,\" he says. \"First, we have to help the child.\"Once the baby's condition is stable enough to leave the emergency ward, mothers are admitted straight to Cini's very own nutritional rehabilitation centre. Each mother and child is provided with a room, where they are taught about good nutrition and preventative healthcare under the guidance of fully-trained health workers.Today the kindly Dr Debjani teaches a session on nutrition using coloured stripes of the Indian flag (red for protein, white for carbs, green for leafy vegetables). I'm intrigued by the animated, engaged responses to the doctor's questions. These women are enjoying their learning experience.The health workers in the nutritional rehabilitation centre are strong, sisterly women with a background in supporting inexperienced mothers. Along with the role of mentor, each health worker is trained to form a personal bond with each mother individually, so that they feel able to discuss intimate problems like domestic violence or sexual health.Awareness spreads from village to village through word of mouth. \"All we ask from the people is that they share what we have taught them,\" explains assistant director Abinash Gine. \"Not all women can make it directly to our centre, but if one woman can pass on a few things to her neighbours then, gradually, the whole community will gain.\"Cini raises funds through its 'Sponsor a Mother' programme to train mothers to run self-help groups in their own villages. Individual women take responsibility for 20 households at a time, holding monthly meetings to offer advice about pregnancy, education, family planning and the local services and support facilities that are available.Deep in the village of Jandatpur, I am faced with a surprisingly different scenario. Sanoka, 15, is telling me about the birth of her daughter, Rubsa. \"It was a complicated birth,\" she says. \"I had to visit the hospital many times because I had a lot of pain.\"Sanoka's medical records report a persistent abdominal pain, eventually resulting in an early birth through caesarian section. Women in rural India have died of lesser conditions. Her own young age puts baby Rubsa in a high-risk category for malnutrition-related problems.But Rubsa smiles at me with a chubby, round face. Her medical card shows that she's well off the malnutrition charts and up-to-date with all of her vaccinations. Sanoka's family eat a varied diet of protein, rice and local vegetables, from which she feeds her child seven times a day.I am astounded. Everywhere I go in Jandatpur and the surrounding villages, strong, healthy families beam back at me with a surprising defiance. \"We don't have malnutrition here,\" they tell me. \"It just isn't a problem.\"But this wasn't always the case. A spritely 72-year-old grandmother from the same village, Ingala, reveals a different story. \"When I was a mother we weren't allowed to talk about it,\" she explains. \"Pregnancy was a source of great shame. We weren't even meant to leave the house.\"Ingala gave birth eight times, and feels lucky that six of her children have survived. All of them were delivered in her own home. \"Back then we didn't even know that hospitals existed,\" she laughs. \"When the baby started coming, I just called out for help.\"Back at the emergency ward I meet Sashma, whose son Gorpal is so malnourished that he doesn't even have flesh where his buttocks should be. At two years old, he weighs only five kg; ten kg less than his optimum weight. At every touch from his mother he cries out in pain.Sashma is unable to pay attention to the doctor, to look away from her child or even to smile. I think of 15-year-old Sanoka: strong, healthy and competent, already expecting the best from the health service. I realise that this is how her life should be. These women deserve the chance to keep their children alive. \"You're in good hands,\" I want to tell Sashma. \"Things are moving forward.\"\u2022 Abigail Palmer is a freelance writer. Cini is running a 'Sponsor a Mother' scheme in the run-up to the UK Mother's Day celebrations.", "tags": ["India", "Global development", "Nutrition", "Malnutrition"], "title": "Fighting malnutrition in India"},{"date": "2010-02-14T00:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Sometimes romance is a quiet connection rather than an intense declaration\u2026 which is why the most romantic moment in my life was on the night train from Varanasi to Delhi, when Christopher and I were barely even speaking.It was no one's fault, our six weeks' travelling around India had been astonishing: we moved open-mouthed from grand palaces to colourful markets, past adorable kids in neat school uniforms, to people living \u2013 quite literally \u2013 in holes in the wall. But now our senses were saturated and our wonder worn to a nub: we quietly shuffled on to the night train and into our bunks, barely exchanging a word.I don't know about Chris, but I was asleep in seconds \u2013 and the second-class sleeper compartment on an Indian train is not a quiet place. Snores of every pitch rang back and forth among the bunks like grunting finalists at Wimbledon; children woke, startled, as the train lurched along the tracks; mothers sleepily sang snatches of unfamiliar songs.I woke at dawn when the train stopped briefly at a small station in Shikohabad Junction, 65km east of Agra, and small boys flooded on to the train, lugging huge silver kettles. Chris was obviously awake, too: he climbed into my bunk nursing two glasses of chai \u2013 the hot spicy tea made with condensed milk which would be undrinkable anywhere else, but on an Indian train at dawn is nothing short of ambrosial.Road weary and grubby and sleep-deprived, Chris and I quietly sipped our tea, looking out the window at the gathering dawn light. It revealed a quiet India: ordinary people going about their everyday lives on the Great Plains, the flat fertile lands irrigated by the Ganges and its tributaries. The train slowed as we passed a small boy driving bison through the watery rice paddies with lazy flicks of a stick. The sun grew higher, caught in distant rivers which snaked like burnished copper into the horizon. It was almost celestial in its beauty.Without speaking, Chris took my hand and squeezed it. We could have slept through to Delhi \u2013 kept our energy for the last push of big sightseeing blockbusters. But instead we'd found and shared this quiet moment of light and simplicity. It felt like a gift.Jennifer Cox is the author of Around the World in 80 Dates (\u00a37.99, Arrow). The overnight train from Varanasi to Delhi costs \u00a313 one way (www.irctc.co.in). Emirates (www.emirates.com) flies from Heathrow to Varanasi from \u00a3608. Ffestiniog Travel (01766 772 030; www.festtravel.co.uk) has a six-night package from \u00a31,150, including flights from Heathrow, three nights each in Varanasi and Delhi, and the train journey from Varanasi to Delhi in a first-class sleeper. For details go to www.incredibleindia.org", "tags": ["Travel", "India holidays"], "title": "Destination romance: Varanasi India"},{"date": "2010-03-01T18:17:59Z", "country": "india", "content": "At William Farr, a Church of England comprehensive in Welton, Lincolnshire, dance is part of an annual crosscurricular enrichment day on Indian culture. Year 9 students get a taste of bharatanatyam, kathak and other south Asian dance styles traditionally used for storytelling by watching and performing with dancers from Kala Sangam, a leading South Asian arts organisation.For a \"largely white middle-class school in the Lincolnshire countryside\", it is a way of extending children's understanding of other cultures, says Carole Lymn, head of religious studies, sociology and psychology.\"Working with the professionals, they achieve something they can be proud of in the space of an hour, which is pretty amazing to see.\"Bradford-based Kala Sangam deliver cross-cultural collaborative projects to schools nationwide, while also supporting subject teaching, according to its chief executive Gheeta Upadhyaya. \"Insecondary, for example, we support PE but also explore subjects such as maths through dance, looking at rhythm cycles and time signatures and bringing in elements of geometry and number patterns.\"Dance can be a powerful tool in other ways, she adds.\"There is definitely a lot of self-esteem building, team-work and general positivity that flows from the dances. Students are creating something themselves, it's not just us teaching them what to do.", "tags": ["March 2010"], "title": "Passage to India"},{"date": "2010-02-10T09:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Rabiah is smiling. We're sitting in an emergency ward amongst rows of tiny beds filled with tiny children. They're all hooked up to intimidatingly large machinery. Mothers sit next to them, eyes tired and angst-ridden, faces drawn. Ten days ago Rabiah's ten-month-old twins were admitted to the same ward with life-threatening cases of respiratory tract infection. \"I thought they were going to die,\" Rabiah tells me.19-year-old Rabiah and her family are victims of Hurricane Aila \u2013 a brutal storm that affected the lives of millions of people in the Bengal region. Rabiah's family were rescued by an initiative to help malnourished families in the area.On-site doctor Subho Paul offers more insight into the twins' condition. \"Illnesses like this start with a common cold,\" he says. \"In the UK they'd be given a dose of Calpol.\"Here in India, however, underlying cases of malnutrition lead to such low immunity that even a small virus can throw a young child into a life-threatening state. These days it's not simply poverty that keeps families from being well-nourished: many can afford to eat but just don't know what to buy. Common misconceptions, such as choosing formula milk over breastfeeding, and expensive processed imports over local, nutritious fruit and vegetables, along with poor levels of hygiene and low rates of immunisation, all play a part in the shocking fact that a child in India dies every 15 seconds. Even more shocking is the fact that 70-80% of these life-threatening diseases are entirely preventable.With this in mind, the Child In Need India (Cini) was born. For over 35 years, teams of doctors, health workers and volunteers have been fighting to remove malnutrition from India's rural communities. Cini adopts a long-term approach, recognising that if you teach a mother how to help her own children, this new-found wisdom will have an effect on generations to come.Dr Paul shows me how people like Rabiah are helped to start changing their behaviour. \"Ten days ago, she would have been far too worried about her babies for us to preach to her about feeding habits,\" he says. \"First, we have to help the child.\"Once the baby's condition is stable enough to leave the emergency ward, mothers are admitted straight to Cini's very own nutritional rehabilitation centre. Each mother and child is provided with a room, where they are taught about good nutrition and preventative healthcare under the guidance of fully-trained health workers.Today the kindly Dr Debjani teaches a session on nutrition using coloured stripes of the Indian flag (red for protein, white for carbs, green for leafy vegetables). I'm intrigued by the animated, engaged responses to the doctor's questions. These women are enjoying their learning experience.The health workers in the nutritional rehabilitation centre are strong, sisterly women with a background in supporting inexperienced mothers. Along with the role of mentor, each health worker is trained to form a personal bond with each mother individually, so that they feel able to discuss intimate problems like domestic violence or sexual health.Awareness spreads from village to village through word of mouth. \"All we ask from the people is that they share what we have taught them,\" explains assistant director Abinash Gine. \"Not all women can make it directly to our centre, but if one woman can pass on a few things to her neighbours then, gradually, the whole community will gain.\"Cini raises funds through its 'Sponsor a Mother' programme to train mothers to run self-help groups in their own villages. Individual women take responsibility for 20 households at a time, holding monthly meetings to offer advice about pregnancy, education, family planning and the local services and support facilities that are available.Deep in the village of Jandatpur, I am faced with a surprisingly different scenario. Sanoka, 15, is telling me about the birth of her daughter, Rubsa. \"It was a complicated birth,\" she says. \"I had to visit the hospital many times because I had a lot of pain.\"Sanoka's medical records report a persistent abdominal pain, eventually resulting in an early birth through caesarian section. Women in rural India have died of lesser conditions. Her own young age puts baby Rubsa in a high-risk category for malnutrition-related problems.But Rubsa smiles at me with a chubby, round face. Her medical card shows that she's well off the malnutrition charts and up-to-date with all of her vaccinations. Sanoka's family eat a varied diet of protein, rice and local vegetables, from which she feeds her child seven times a day.I am astounded. Everywhere I go in Jandatpur and the surrounding villages, strong, healthy families beam back at me with a surprising defiance. \"We don't have malnutrition here,\" they tell me. \"It just isn't a problem.\"But this wasn't always the case. A spritely 72-year-old grandmother from the same village, Ingala, reveals a different story. \"When I was a mother we weren't allowed to talk about it,\" she explains. \"Pregnancy was a source of great shame. We weren't even meant to leave the house.\"Ingala gave birth eight times, and feels lucky that six of her children have survived. All of them were delivered in her own home. \"Back then we didn't even know that hospitals existed,\" she laughs. \"When the baby started coming, I just called out for help.\"Back at the emergency ward I meet Sashma, whose son Gorpal is so malnourished that he doesn't even have flesh where his buttocks should be. At two years old, he weighs only five kg; ten kg less than his optimum weight. At every touch from his mother he cries out in pain.Sashma is unable to pay attention to the doctor, to look away from her child or even to smile. I think of 15-year-old Sanoka: strong, healthy and competent, already expecting the best from the health service. I realise that this is how her life should be. These women deserve the chance to keep their children alive. \"You're in good hands,\" I want to tell Sashma. \"Things are moving forward.\"\u2022 Abigail Palmer is a freelance writer. Cini is running a 'Sponsor a Mother' scheme in the run-up to the UK Mother's Day celebrations.", "tags": ["India", "Global development", "Nutrition", "Malnutrition"], "title": "Fighting malnutrition in India"},{"date": "2010-02-26T15:15:09Z", "country": "india", "content": "Thomas Ruttig of the Afghanistan Analysts Network was staying near the site of today's attacks in Kabul. Ruttig's analysis of the insurgency last year is still widely circulated as one of the most dispassionate and accurate around. In a blog on today's attacks, Ruttig points out that the attack took place on the Prophet Mohamed's birthday and claimed mainly Muslim casualties. He also points out it happened the day after the first Indo-Pakistani talks since the Mumbai attacks in November 2008, and that the two main guesthouses targeted, Hamid's and Park Residence, were mainly used by Indian nationals. This possibly is no coincidence. In this connection, today's attack in Kabul can be read as another attack on Indian targets in Kabul (the Indian embassy here was bombed in July 2008) and \u2013 indirectly \u2013 on initiatives to improve the Indo-Pakistani relationship?So, why do the Taleban make themselves an instrument of those \u2013 by claiming responsibility \u2013 who do not want to see such an improvement to happen? Does the whole Taleban movement support such a strategy? What about Mulla Omar's statement of late last year that the Taleban do not threaten any neighboring and also any other country? Does that not apply for India? Does Zabihullah Mujahed speak for Mulla Omar or not?Or has this attack been carried out by other elements: Pakistani Taleban, the Haqqani network or those linked to groups like Lashkar-e Tayba or al-Qaida that has declared 'Hindu' India a target, too? Are Afghan elements linked to these groups (like the Haqqanis) out of Mulla Omar's control? This would apply to spokesman Zabihullah Mujahed, too.Ruttig suggests the attacks add weight to the view that the ISI's recent arrests have targeted Taliban leaders known to favour a political solution. By that reckoning, this attack was aimed jointly at the Indo-Pakistani peace moves and a political settlement in Afghanistan. A depressing prospect.", "tags": ["Afghanistan", "Taliban", "Pakistan", "India"], "title": "An attack aimed at India"},{"date": "2010-02-14T00:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Sometimes romance is a quiet connection rather than an intense declaration\u2026 which is why the most romantic moment in my life was on the night train from Varanasi to Delhi, when Christopher and I were barely even speaking.It was no one's fault, our six weeks' travelling around India had been astonishing: we moved open-mouthed from grand palaces to colourful markets, past adorable kids in neat school uniforms, to people living \u2013 quite literally \u2013 in holes in the wall. But now our senses were saturated and our wonder worn to a nub: we quietly shuffled on to the night train and into our bunks, barely exchanging a word.I don't know about Chris, but I was asleep in seconds \u2013 and the second-class sleeper compartment on an Indian train is not a quiet place. Snores of every pitch rang back and forth among the bunks like grunting finalists at Wimbledon; children woke, startled, as the train lurched along the tracks; mothers sleepily sang snatches of unfamiliar songs.I woke at dawn when the train stopped briefly at a small station in Shikohabad Junction, 65km east of Agra, and small boys flooded on to the train, lugging huge silver kettles. Chris was obviously awake, too: he climbed into my bunk nursing two glasses of chai \u2013 the hot spicy tea made with condensed milk which would be undrinkable anywhere else, but on an Indian train at dawn is nothing short of ambrosial.Road weary and grubby and sleep-deprived, Chris and I quietly sipped our tea, looking out the window at the gathering dawn light. It revealed a quiet India: ordinary people going about their everyday lives on the Great Plains, the flat fertile lands irrigated by the Ganges and its tributaries. The train slowed as we passed a small boy driving bison through the watery rice paddies with lazy flicks of a stick. The sun grew higher, caught in distant rivers which snaked like burnished copper into the horizon. It was almost celestial in its beauty.Without speaking, Chris took my hand and squeezed it. We could have slept through to Delhi \u2013 kept our energy for the last push of big sightseeing blockbusters. But instead we'd found and shared this quiet moment of light and simplicity. It felt like a gift.Jennifer Cox is the author of Around the World in 80 Dates (\u00a37.99, Arrow). The overnight train from Varanasi to Delhi costs \u00a313 one way (www.irctc.co.in). Emirates (www.emirates.com) flies from Heathrow to Varanasi from \u00a3608. Ffestiniog Travel (01766 772 030; www.festtravel.co.uk) has a six-night package from \u00a31,150, including flights from Heathrow, three nights each in Varanasi and Delhi, and the train journey from Varanasi to Delhi in a first-class sleeper. For details go to www.incredibleindia.org", "tags": ["Travel", "India holidays"], "title": "Destination romance: Varanasi India"},{"date": "2010-03-01T18:17:59Z", "country": "india", "content": "At William Farr, a Church of England comprehensive in Welton, Lincolnshire, dance is part of an annual crosscurricular enrichment day on Indian culture. Year 9 students get a taste of bharatanatyam, kathak and other south Asian dance styles traditionally used for storytelling by watching and performing with dancers from Kala Sangam, a leading South Asian arts organisation.For a \"largely white middle-class school in the Lincolnshire countryside\", it is a way of extending children's understanding of other cultures, says Carole Lymn, head of religious studies, sociology and psychology.\"Working with the professionals, they achieve something they can be proud of in the space of an hour, which is pretty amazing to see.\"Bradford-based Kala Sangam deliver cross-cultural collaborative projects to schools nationwide, while also supporting subject teaching, according to its chief executive Gheeta Upadhyaya. \"Insecondary, for example, we support PE but also explore subjects such as maths through dance, looking at rhythm cycles and time signatures and bringing in elements of geometry and number patterns.\"Dance can be a powerful tool in other ways, she adds.\"There is definitely a lot of self-esteem building, team-work and general positivity that flows from the dances. Students are creating something themselves, it's not just us teaching them what to do.", "tags": ["March 2010"], "title": "Passage to India"},{"date": "2010-02-10T09:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Rabiah is smiling. We're sitting in an emergency ward amongst rows of tiny beds filled with tiny children. They're all hooked up to intimidatingly large machinery. Mothers sit next to them, eyes tired and angst-ridden, faces drawn. Ten days ago Rabiah's ten-month-old twins were admitted to the same ward with life-threatening cases of respiratory tract infection. \"I thought they were going to die,\" Rabiah tells me.19-year-old Rabiah and her family are victims of Hurricane Aila \u2013 a brutal storm that affected the lives of millions of people in the Bengal region. Rabiah's family were rescued by an initiative to help malnourished families in the area.On-site doctor Subho Paul offers more insight into the twins' condition. \"Illnesses like this start with a common cold,\" he says. \"In the UK they'd be given a dose of Calpol.\"Here in India, however, underlying cases of malnutrition lead to such low immunity that even a small virus can throw a young child into a life-threatening state. These days it's not simply poverty that keeps families from being well-nourished: many can afford to eat but just don't know what to buy. Common misconceptions, such as choosing formula milk over breastfeeding, and expensive processed imports over local, nutritious fruit and vegetables, along with poor levels of hygiene and low rates of immunisation, all play a part in the shocking fact that a child in India dies every 15 seconds. Even more shocking is the fact that 70-80% of these life-threatening diseases are entirely preventable.With this in mind, the Child In Need India (Cini) was born. For over 35 years, teams of doctors, health workers and volunteers have been fighting to remove malnutrition from India's rural communities. Cini adopts a long-term approach, recognising that if you teach a mother how to help her own children, this new-found wisdom will have an effect on generations to come.Dr Paul shows me how people like Rabiah are helped to start changing their behaviour. \"Ten days ago, she would have been far too worried about her babies for us to preach to her about feeding habits,\" he says. \"First, we have to help the child.\"Once the baby's condition is stable enough to leave the emergency ward, mothers are admitted straight to Cini's very own nutritional rehabilitation centre. Each mother and child is provided with a room, where they are taught about good nutrition and preventative healthcare under the guidance of fully-trained health workers.Today the kindly Dr Debjani teaches a session on nutrition using coloured stripes of the Indian flag (red for protein, white for carbs, green for leafy vegetables). I'm intrigued by the animated, engaged responses to the doctor's questions. These women are enjoying their learning experience.The health workers in the nutritional rehabilitation centre are strong, sisterly women with a background in supporting inexperienced mothers. Along with the role of mentor, each health worker is trained to form a personal bond with each mother individually, so that they feel able to discuss intimate problems like domestic violence or sexual health.Awareness spreads from village to village through word of mouth. \"All we ask from the people is that they share what we have taught them,\" explains assistant director Abinash Gine. \"Not all women can make it directly to our centre, but if one woman can pass on a few things to her neighbours then, gradually, the whole community will gain.\"Cini raises funds through its 'Sponsor a Mother' programme to train mothers to run self-help groups in their own villages. Individual women take responsibility for 20 households at a time, holding monthly meetings to offer advice about pregnancy, education, family planning and the local services and support facilities that are available.Deep in the village of Jandatpur, I am faced with a surprisingly different scenario. Sanoka, 15, is telling me about the birth of her daughter, Rubsa. \"It was a complicated birth,\" she says. \"I had to visit the hospital many times because I had a lot of pain.\"Sanoka's medical records report a persistent abdominal pain, eventually resulting in an early birth through caesarian section. Women in rural India have died of lesser conditions. Her own young age puts baby Rubsa in a high-risk category for malnutrition-related problems.But Rubsa smiles at me with a chubby, round face. Her medical card shows that she's well off the malnutrition charts and up-to-date with all of her vaccinations. Sanoka's family eat a varied diet of protein, rice and local vegetables, from which she feeds her child seven times a day.I am astounded. Everywhere I go in Jandatpur and the surrounding villages, strong, healthy families beam back at me with a surprising defiance. \"We don't have malnutrition here,\" they tell me. \"It just isn't a problem.\"But this wasn't always the case. A spritely 72-year-old grandmother from the same village, Ingala, reveals a different story. \"When I was a mother we weren't allowed to talk about it,\" she explains. \"Pregnancy was a source of great shame. We weren't even meant to leave the house.\"Ingala gave birth eight times, and feels lucky that six of her children have survived. All of them were delivered in her own home. \"Back then we didn't even know that hospitals existed,\" she laughs. \"When the baby started coming, I just called out for help.\"Back at the emergency ward I meet Sashma, whose son Gorpal is so malnourished that he doesn't even have flesh where his buttocks should be. At two years old, he weighs only five kg; ten kg less than his optimum weight. At every touch from his mother he cries out in pain.Sashma is unable to pay attention to the doctor, to look away from her child or even to smile. I think of 15-year-old Sanoka: strong, healthy and competent, already expecting the best from the health service. I realise that this is how her life should be. These women deserve the chance to keep their children alive. \"You're in good hands,\" I want to tell Sashma. \"Things are moving forward.\"\u2022 Abigail Palmer is a freelance writer. Cini is running a 'Sponsor a Mother' scheme in the run-up to the UK Mother's Day celebrations.", "tags": ["India", "Global development", "Nutrition", "Malnutrition"], "title": "Fighting malnutrition in India"},{"date": "2010-02-26T15:15:09Z", "country": "india", "content": "Thomas Ruttig of the Afghanistan Analysts Network was staying near the site of today's attacks in Kabul. Ruttig's analysis of the insurgency last year is still widely circulated as one of the most dispassionate and accurate around. In a blog on today's attacks, Ruttig points out that the attack took place on the Prophet Mohamed's birthday and claimed mainly Muslim casualties. He also points out it happened the day after the first Indo-Pakistani talks since the Mumbai attacks in November 2008, and that the two main guesthouses targeted, Hamid's and Park Residence, were mainly used by Indian nationals. This possibly is no coincidence. In this connection, today's attack in Kabul can be read as another attack on Indian targets in Kabul (the Indian embassy here was bombed in July 2008) and \u2013 indirectly \u2013 on initiatives to improve the Indo-Pakistani relationship?So, why do the Taleban make themselves an instrument of those \u2013 by claiming responsibility \u2013 who do not want to see such an improvement to happen? Does the whole Taleban movement support such a strategy? What about Mulla Omar's statement of late last year that the Taleban do not threaten any neighboring and also any other country? Does that not apply for India? Does Zabihullah Mujahed speak for Mulla Omar or not?Or has this attack been carried out by other elements: Pakistani Taleban, the Haqqani network or those linked to groups like Lashkar-e Tayba or al-Qaida that has declared 'Hindu' India a target, too? Are Afghan elements linked to these groups (like the Haqqanis) out of Mulla Omar's control? This would apply to spokesman Zabihullah Mujahed, too.Ruttig suggests the attacks add weight to the view that the ISI's recent arrests have targeted Taliban leaders known to favour a political solution. By that reckoning, this attack was aimed jointly at the Indo-Pakistani peace moves and a political settlement in Afghanistan. A depressing prospect.", "tags": ["Afghanistan", "Taliban", "Pakistan", "India"], "title": "An attack aimed at India"},{"date": "2010-02-03T09:00:02Z", "country": "india", "content": "Alongside the great internet firewall of China, the vicious paranoia of Burma's ruling junta, and the lists of murdered journalists in Sri Lanka, India appears as a beacon of free speech and open-minded self-criticism. And yet, for all the vociferous passion of its journalists and activists in calling the powerful to account, the overall impression is of voices screaming into a vacuum.Nowhere is this feeling more evident right now than on the issue of the left-wing insurgency raging through India's poorest regions. Under the broadbrush moniker of Maoists or Naxalites, these insurgents represent one of the few forms of resistance for villagers and hill tribes against the inequities of continuing feudal structures and the encroachment of global corporations \u2013 backed by the state \u2013 who treat them as awkward impediments to mining plans.The Naxalites can be brutal, and the villagers under their control often find themselves unwillingly cut off from health services, education and development. But they have held on to the moral high ground thanks largely to a state response that has been unremittingly heavy-handed: special forces operations, the arming of vigilante groups, the dispossession of land, forced encampment \u2013 all accompanied by tales of extrajudicial killings, rapes and, for some godforsaken reason, the chopping off of children's fingers.India's civil society looks on in abhorrence at what is widely seen as a full-blown war against the poor. Even the government-appointed Council of Experts had to conclude that: \"Often any individual who speaks out against the powerful is dubbed a Naxalite and jailed or otherwise silenced. The search for Naxalite cadre leads to severe harassment and torture of its supporters and sympathisers.\"Those who try to report these crimes find themselves bundled away to police custody \"for their own protection\". This has been happening to Sodi Sambo, a 28-year-old woman from Gompar village in Chattisgarh who says she witnessed security forces murder nine of her neighbours in October 2009, and was herself shot in the foot in front of her two small children. She tried to file a complaint, only to find herself under armed guard in a nearby hospital with no visitors allowed and denied the right to travel to Delhi for treatment.With Amnesty International and the supreme court wading in, her case might just be heard. A couple of troops might even be reprimanded. In the meantime, the operations will continue. Just a fortnight ago, home minister Palaniappan Chidambaram announced another massive offensive across five states, confidently claiming it would target only insurgent leaders. Since no journalists are allowed anywhere near these war zones, we have to take his word for it.Which brings us back to the issue of free speech, and also its implications for military strategy. One of the key lessons of modern counter-insurgency is that you have to take the voters \u2013 and therefore the media \u2013 with you. Militaries have long struggled to balance the rights of a free press with the risk that they might record something that damages its credibility. In the west, this took centre stage in Vietnam, which many in the US military felt was a war fought and lost on the evening news and in the pages of Time magazine.That thinking has led to embedded journalism, military PR departments \u2013 even dedicated YouTube channels \u2013 which seek to \"sell\" the campaign back home and abroad. It has made governments acutely conscious of legitimacy, if not for moral reasons, then at least for its impact on operational effectiveness.In India, however, there seems to be scant concern for legitimacy in the anti-Naxal campaign beyond flagrant attempts to silence witnesses and bar journalists and activists from affected areas. When it does try to justify itself, the government hides behind the argument that the Maoists are impeding economic development that could improve the lives of the poor \u2013 ignoring studies that show this model of development may have actually increased the number of poor by 100 million.The Naxalite issue shows up a yawning chasm between what civil society says and what government does. The failure to listen means the government is losing not just the battle for hearts and minds, but even the physical fight on which it has focused its efforts. Last year, 319 security forces were killed compared with 219 Maoists \u2013 an extraordinary tally given the discrepancy in each side's resources.The fact is that any number of expos\u00e9s on the wrongs of this campaign has little or no impact on voters with so many other issues and allegiances to consider. Nor does the government fear the opprobrium of the international community, which is preoccupied with winning India's support in Afghanistan and salivating over her enormous defence budgets. The editor of one leading news publication admitted last week that the media's efforts were having \"no political impact\".The most pessimistic conclusion to draw is that free speech in India only serves to strengthen those who flout other articles in the constitution. \"How can we be authoritarian,\" the government can protest, \"when we allow the media such freedom to criticise us?\" Too often, however, the only victory of expression is its freedom to exist, rather than its power to effect change.Or we can be more optimistic, and take heart in the strength of ideas to gradually permeate through society and perhaps enthuse a future generation of leaders, tired of a system that stands so apart from the moral conscience embodied in its academics, activists, journalists and ordinary citizens, in whose name the brutal price of progress is paid. The superiority of India's civil society must surely, in time, earn it the influence it deserves.", "tags": ["India", "Vedanta Resources", "Freedom of speech", "Human rights", "Journalist safety", "Activism", "Mining", "World news", "Media", "Law"], "title": "India is ignoring its citizens | Eric Randolph"},{"date": "2010-02-14T00:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Sometimes romance is a quiet connection rather than an intense declaration\u2026 which is why the most romantic moment in my life was on the night train from Varanasi to Delhi, when Christopher and I were barely even speaking.It was no one's fault, our six weeks' travelling around India had been astonishing: we moved open-mouthed from grand palaces to colourful markets, past adorable kids in neat school uniforms, to people living \u2013 quite literally \u2013 in holes in the wall. But now our senses were saturated and our wonder worn to a nub: we quietly shuffled on to the night train and into our bunks, barely exchanging a word.I don't know about Chris, but I was asleep in seconds \u2013 and the second-class sleeper compartment on an Indian train is not a quiet place. Snores of every pitch rang back and forth among the bunks like grunting finalists at Wimbledon; children woke, startled, as the train lurched along the tracks; mothers sleepily sang snatches of unfamiliar songs.I woke at dawn when the train stopped briefly at a small station in Shikohabad Junction, 65km east of Agra, and small boys flooded on to the train, lugging huge silver kettles. Chris was obviously awake, too: he climbed into my bunk nursing two glasses of chai \u2013 the hot spicy tea made with condensed milk which would be undrinkable anywhere else, but on an Indian train at dawn is nothing short of ambrosial.Road weary and grubby and sleep-deprived, Chris and I quietly sipped our tea, looking out the window at the gathering dawn light. It revealed a quiet India: ordinary people going about their everyday lives on the Great Plains, the flat fertile lands irrigated by the Ganges and its tributaries. The train slowed as we passed a small boy driving bison through the watery rice paddies with lazy flicks of a stick. The sun grew higher, caught in distant rivers which snaked like burnished copper into the horizon. It was almost celestial in its beauty.Without speaking, Chris took my hand and squeezed it. We could have slept through to Delhi \u2013 kept our energy for the last push of big sightseeing blockbusters. But instead we'd found and shared this quiet moment of light and simplicity. It felt like a gift.Jennifer Cox is the author of Around the World in 80 Dates (\u00a37.99, Arrow). The overnight train from Varanasi to Delhi costs \u00a313 one way (www.irctc.co.in). Emirates (www.emirates.com) flies from Heathrow to Varanasi from \u00a3608. Ffestiniog Travel (01766 772 030; www.festtravel.co.uk) has a six-night package from \u00a31,150, including flights from Heathrow, three nights each in Varanasi and Delhi, and the train journey from Varanasi to Delhi in a first-class sleeper. For details go to www.incredibleindia.org", "tags": ["Travel", "India holidays"], "title": "Destination romance: Varanasi India"},{"date": "2010-03-01T18:17:59Z", "country": "india", "content": "At William Farr, a Church of England comprehensive in Welton, Lincolnshire, dance is part of an annual crosscurricular enrichment day on Indian culture. Year 9 students get a taste of bharatanatyam, kathak and other south Asian dance styles traditionally used for storytelling by watching and performing with dancers from Kala Sangam, a leading South Asian arts organisation.For a \"largely white middle-class school in the Lincolnshire countryside\", it is a way of extending children's understanding of other cultures, says Carole Lymn, head of religious studies, sociology and psychology.\"Working with the professionals, they achieve something they can be proud of in the space of an hour, which is pretty amazing to see.\"Bradford-based Kala Sangam deliver cross-cultural collaborative projects to schools nationwide, while also supporting subject teaching, according to its chief executive Gheeta Upadhyaya. \"Insecondary, for example, we support PE but also explore subjects such as maths through dance, looking at rhythm cycles and time signatures and bringing in elements of geometry and number patterns.\"Dance can be a powerful tool in other ways, she adds.\"There is definitely a lot of self-esteem building, team-work and general positivity that flows from the dances. Students are creating something themselves, it's not just us teaching them what to do.", "tags": ["March 2010"], "title": "Passage to India"},{"date": "2010-02-10T09:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Rabiah is smiling. We're sitting in an emergency ward amongst rows of tiny beds filled with tiny children. They're all hooked up to intimidatingly large machinery. Mothers sit next to them, eyes tired and angst-ridden, faces drawn. Ten days ago Rabiah's ten-month-old twins were admitted to the same ward with life-threatening cases of respiratory tract infection. \"I thought they were going to die,\" Rabiah tells me.19-year-old Rabiah and her family are victims of Hurricane Aila \u2013 a brutal storm that affected the lives of millions of people in the Bengal region. Rabiah's family were rescued by an initiative to help malnourished families in the area.On-site doctor Subho Paul offers more insight into the twins' condition. \"Illnesses like this start with a common cold,\" he says. \"In the UK they'd be given a dose of Calpol.\"Here in India, however, underlying cases of malnutrition lead to such low immunity that even a small virus can throw a young child into a life-threatening state. These days it's not simply poverty that keeps families from being well-nourished: many can afford to eat but just don't know what to buy. Common misconceptions, such as choosing formula milk over breastfeeding, and expensive processed imports over local, nutritious fruit and vegetables, along with poor levels of hygiene and low rates of immunisation, all play a part in the shocking fact that a child in India dies every 15 seconds. Even more shocking is the fact that 70-80% of these life-threatening diseases are entirely preventable.With this in mind, the Child In Need India (Cini) was born. For over 35 years, teams of doctors, health workers and volunteers have been fighting to remove malnutrition from India's rural communities. Cini adopts a long-term approach, recognising that if you teach a mother how to help her own children, this new-found wisdom will have an effect on generations to come.Dr Paul shows me how people like Rabiah are helped to start changing their behaviour. \"Ten days ago, she would have been far too worried about her babies for us to preach to her about feeding habits,\" he says. \"First, we have to help the child.\"Once the baby's condition is stable enough to leave the emergency ward, mothers are admitted straight to Cini's very own nutritional rehabilitation centre. Each mother and child is provided with a room, where they are taught about good nutrition and preventative healthcare under the guidance of fully-trained health workers.Today the kindly Dr Debjani teaches a session on nutrition using coloured stripes of the Indian flag (red for protein, white for carbs, green for leafy vegetables). I'm intrigued by the animated, engaged responses to the doctor's questions. These women are enjoying their learning experience.The health workers in the nutritional rehabilitation centre are strong, sisterly women with a background in supporting inexperienced mothers. Along with the role of mentor, each health worker is trained to form a personal bond with each mother individually, so that they feel able to discuss intimate problems like domestic violence or sexual health.Awareness spreads from village to village through word of mouth. \"All we ask from the people is that they share what we have taught them,\" explains assistant director Abinash Gine. \"Not all women can make it directly to our centre, but if one woman can pass on a few things to her neighbours then, gradually, the whole community will gain.\"Cini raises funds through its 'Sponsor a Mother' programme to train mothers to run self-help groups in their own villages. Individual women take responsibility for 20 households at a time, holding monthly meetings to offer advice about pregnancy, education, family planning and the local services and support facilities that are available.Deep in the village of Jandatpur, I am faced with a surprisingly different scenario. Sanoka, 15, is telling me about the birth of her daughter, Rubsa. \"It was a complicated birth,\" she says. \"I had to visit the hospital many times because I had a lot of pain.\"Sanoka's medical records report a persistent abdominal pain, eventually resulting in an early birth through caesarian section. Women in rural India have died of lesser conditions. Her own young age puts baby Rubsa in a high-risk category for malnutrition-related problems.But Rubsa smiles at me with a chubby, round face. Her medical card shows that she's well off the malnutrition charts and up-to-date with all of her vaccinations. Sanoka's family eat a varied diet of protein, rice and local vegetables, from which she feeds her child seven times a day.I am astounded. Everywhere I go in Jandatpur and the surrounding villages, strong, healthy families beam back at me with a surprising defiance. \"We don't have malnutrition here,\" they tell me. \"It just isn't a problem.\"But this wasn't always the case. A spritely 72-year-old grandmother from the same village, Ingala, reveals a different story. \"When I was a mother we weren't allowed to talk about it,\" she explains. \"Pregnancy was a source of great shame. We weren't even meant to leave the house.\"Ingala gave birth eight times, and feels lucky that six of her children have survived. All of them were delivered in her own home. \"Back then we didn't even know that hospitals existed,\" she laughs. \"When the baby started coming, I just called out for help.\"Back at the emergency ward I meet Sashma, whose son Gorpal is so malnourished that he doesn't even have flesh where his buttocks should be. At two years old, he weighs only five kg; ten kg less than his optimum weight. At every touch from his mother he cries out in pain.Sashma is unable to pay attention to the doctor, to look away from her child or even to smile. I think of 15-year-old Sanoka: strong, healthy and competent, already expecting the best from the health service. I realise that this is how her life should be. These women deserve the chance to keep their children alive. \"You're in good hands,\" I want to tell Sashma. \"Things are moving forward.\"\u2022 Abigail Palmer is a freelance writer. Cini is running a 'Sponsor a Mother' scheme in the run-up to the UK Mother's Day celebrations.", "tags": ["India", "Global development", "Nutrition", "Malnutrition"], "title": "Fighting malnutrition in India"},{"date": "2010-02-26T15:15:09Z", "country": "india", "content": "Thomas Ruttig of the Afghanistan Analysts Network was staying near the site of today's attacks in Kabul. Ruttig's analysis of the insurgency last year is still widely circulated as one of the most dispassionate and accurate around. In a blog on today's attacks, Ruttig points out that the attack took place on the Prophet Mohamed's birthday and claimed mainly Muslim casualties. He also points out it happened the day after the first Indo-Pakistani talks since the Mumbai attacks in November 2008, and that the two main guesthouses targeted, Hamid's and Park Residence, were mainly used by Indian nationals. This possibly is no coincidence. In this connection, today's attack in Kabul can be read as another attack on Indian targets in Kabul (the Indian embassy here was bombed in July 2008) and \u2013 indirectly \u2013 on initiatives to improve the Indo-Pakistani relationship?So, why do the Taleban make themselves an instrument of those \u2013 by claiming responsibility \u2013 who do not want to see such an improvement to happen? Does the whole Taleban movement support such a strategy? What about Mulla Omar's statement of late last year that the Taleban do not threaten any neighboring and also any other country? Does that not apply for India? Does Zabihullah Mujahed speak for Mulla Omar or not?Or has this attack been carried out by other elements: Pakistani Taleban, the Haqqani network or those linked to groups like Lashkar-e Tayba or al-Qaida that has declared 'Hindu' India a target, too? Are Afghan elements linked to these groups (like the Haqqanis) out of Mulla Omar's control? This would apply to spokesman Zabihullah Mujahed, too.Ruttig suggests the attacks add weight to the view that the ISI's recent arrests have targeted Taliban leaders known to favour a political solution. By that reckoning, this attack was aimed jointly at the Indo-Pakistani peace moves and a political settlement in Afghanistan. A depressing prospect.", "tags": ["Afghanistan", "Taliban", "Pakistan", "India"], "title": "An attack aimed at India"},{"date": "2010-02-03T09:00:02Z", "country": "india", "content": "Alongside the great internet firewall of China, the vicious paranoia of Burma's ruling junta, and the lists of murdered journalists in Sri Lanka, India appears as a beacon of free speech and open-minded self-criticism. And yet, for all the vociferous passion of its journalists and activists in calling the powerful to account, the overall impression is of voices screaming into a vacuum.Nowhere is this feeling more evident right now than on the issue of the left-wing insurgency raging through India's poorest regions. Under the broadbrush moniker of Maoists or Naxalites, these insurgents represent one of the few forms of resistance for villagers and hill tribes against the inequities of continuing feudal structures and the encroachment of global corporations \u2013 backed by the state \u2013 who treat them as awkward impediments to mining plans.The Naxalites can be brutal, and the villagers under their control often find themselves unwillingly cut off from health services, education and development. But they have held on to the moral high ground thanks largely to a state response that has been unremittingly heavy-handed: special forces operations, the arming of vigilante groups, the dispossession of land, forced encampment \u2013 all accompanied by tales of extrajudicial killings, rapes and, for some godforsaken reason, the chopping off of children's fingers.India's civil society looks on in abhorrence at what is widely seen as a full-blown war against the poor. Even the government-appointed Council of Experts had to conclude that: \"Often any individual who speaks out against the powerful is dubbed a Naxalite and jailed or otherwise silenced. The search for Naxalite cadre leads to severe harassment and torture of its supporters and sympathisers.\"Those who try to report these crimes find themselves bundled away to police custody \"for their own protection\". This has been happening to Sodi Sambo, a 28-year-old woman from Gompar village in Chattisgarh who says she witnessed security forces murder nine of her neighbours in October 2009, and was herself shot in the foot in front of her two small children. She tried to file a complaint, only to find herself under armed guard in a nearby hospital with no visitors allowed and denied the right to travel to Delhi for treatment.With Amnesty International and the supreme court wading in, her case might just be heard. A couple of troops might even be reprimanded. In the meantime, the operations will continue. Just a fortnight ago, home minister Palaniappan Chidambaram announced another massive offensive across five states, confidently claiming it would target only insurgent leaders. Since no journalists are allowed anywhere near these war zones, we have to take his word for it.Which brings us back to the issue of free speech, and also its implications for military strategy. One of the key lessons of modern counter-insurgency is that you have to take the voters \u2013 and therefore the media \u2013 with you. Militaries have long struggled to balance the rights of a free press with the risk that they might record something that damages its credibility. In the west, this took centre stage in Vietnam, which many in the US military felt was a war fought and lost on the evening news and in the pages of Time magazine.That thinking has led to embedded journalism, military PR departments \u2013 even dedicated YouTube channels \u2013 which seek to \"sell\" the campaign back home and abroad. It has made governments acutely conscious of legitimacy, if not for moral reasons, then at least for its impact on operational effectiveness.In India, however, there seems to be scant concern for legitimacy in the anti-Naxal campaign beyond flagrant attempts to silence witnesses and bar journalists and activists from affected areas. When it does try to justify itself, the government hides behind the argument that the Maoists are impeding economic development that could improve the lives of the poor \u2013 ignoring studies that show this model of development may have actually increased the number of poor by 100 million.The Naxalite issue shows up a yawning chasm between what civil society says and what government does. The failure to listen means the government is losing not just the battle for hearts and minds, but even the physical fight on which it has focused its efforts. Last year, 319 security forces were killed compared with 219 Maoists \u2013 an extraordinary tally given the discrepancy in each side's resources.The fact is that any number of expos\u00e9s on the wrongs of this campaign has little or no impact on voters with so many other issues and allegiances to consider. Nor does the government fear the opprobrium of the international community, which is preoccupied with winning India's support in Afghanistan and salivating over her enormous defence budgets. The editor of one leading news publication admitted last week that the media's efforts were having \"no political impact\".The most pessimistic conclusion to draw is that free speech in India only serves to strengthen those who flout other articles in the constitution. \"How can we be authoritarian,\" the government can protest, \"when we allow the media such freedom to criticise us?\" Too often, however, the only victory of expression is its freedom to exist, rather than its power to effect change.Or we can be more optimistic, and take heart in the strength of ideas to gradually permeate through society and perhaps enthuse a future generation of leaders, tired of a system that stands so apart from the moral conscience embodied in its academics, activists, journalists and ordinary citizens, in whose name the brutal price of progress is paid. The superiority of India's civil society must surely, in time, earn it the influence it deserves.", "tags": ["India", "Vedanta Resources", "Freedom of speech", "Human rights", "Journalist safety", "Activism", "Mining", "World news", "Media", "Law"], "title": "India is ignoring its citizens | Eric Randolph"},{"date": "2010-01-20T09:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "India will become the world's most populous country within decades. Already it has more children in its schools than China. And there is now a huge and growing demand from parents from all social backgrounds that their children learn English.English may now be regarded as a key ingredient in India's economic success, but estimates of how many Indians actually know the language lack credibility, with numbers ranging from 11 million to 350 million.As with most things in India, English proficiency is distributed very unevenly across the diverse socio-economic groups.Because there is no assessment of spoken language proficiency in education exams, there is no way of knowing what range of skill levels exists in the population. But the reality is that English plays some role in the lives of all Indians, even those who say they cannot speak or read it.One of the reasons for this great demand for English is the buzz surrounding the Indian economy. Even in the last recessionary year, India's GDP is expected to grow by over 7%. Much of the recent Indian economic surge has been driven by the technology and call-centre sector, which has for the first time provided well-paid jobs for anyone who can speak English \u2013 regardless of social background. This started with the availability of low-cost, English-speaking graduates working for large north American and European companies, but the sector has matured rapidly and several Indian companies have now emerged as global players.But how much English is needed to support India's continued economic growth? Is the English-speaking talent pool running dry, as warnings from Nasscom, the sector's trade body, seem to suggest? Nasscom complains that only 15% of engineering graduates in India are \"employable\" \u2013 largely because they lack communication skills despite completing English-medium degrees.A Nasscom representative at a recent conference in Delhi spoke about the need for the education sector to supply employers with \"ready-to-eat\" graduates. This has started a lively debate about the quality of the higher education sector (dominated by English-medium institutions), but also about the proper role of education in Indian society.Yet, when overall employment is analysed more closely, it turns out that there have been remarkably few new jobs created in the whole of the organised sector. India has achieved largely jobless economic growth. Over 93% of the workforce works in the \"unorganised\" sector, which consists largely of low-paid, insecure jobs. So the important question facing India is whether English will help these hundreds of millions of workers improve their standard of living.Government ministers have made fine noises about the need to rapidly expand the vocational education sector, and the need to include English teaching as a key component. However, there is no sign yet of much happening on the ground, not least of where the job opportunities will be.Anecdotal evidence suggests that a little English will help maids, drivers and even a street beggar earn more, and that English helps workers find jobs in neighbouring states. But there has been little systematic research on the opportunities that English provides, or on what kind of English such workers might need. Not, one imagines, the mix of grammar and literature that has traditionally been taught in Indian classrooms.There are structural reasons for the slow expansion of jobs in services \u2013 mostly connected with protectionist policies designed to prevent hundreds of unskilled workers losing their jobs. Certain kinds of manufacturing, for example, have to remain in the hands of the small-scale, handicraft sector. Large-scale retail jobs have been slow to appear, because of limits on foreign investment. The UK-based supermarket business Tesco maintains a logistics centre in Bangalore that services its global operations, but it has not been able to open stores in India the way it has in China.There are hints at what might happen if this sector is allowed to grow. Perhaps nothing captures the spirit of the new, young, consuming classes in India better than Coffee Day, a chain of coffee shops that now reaches across India with 845 cafes in 128 cities. Coffee Day is an Indian company that provides a glimpse of potential future employment in the organised retail sector: employees are expected to be able to deal with customers in English.The fear is that if large chains emerge, they might provide thousands of new retail sector-jobs, but they might put millions of small, family-run stores out of business.From an educational perspective, it is easy to find reasons for not investing in English. It is hugely expensive. It also distracts from developing more basic needs in education: drinking water and toilets in schools, teachers who actually turn up and spend their time wisely in classrooms, improving enrolment and access to secondary schools, and extending education in a child's first language.There is, above all, a huge practical problem: a lack of teachers who speak English. Despite the emphasis now put on offering English to young learners, teachers in lower-primary school are weakest at English. In some states, only around 20% of teachers are thought to have even a basic English competence.India is a society in which English has long signified social status and education. But as televisions reach into ever more homes, as villages are connected by mobile phones and as new roads are built, the English language washes even into rural back\u00adwaters. It symbolises much more than the possibility of a better job: it provides a potential escape from poverty and the oppression of a lower-caste village life.A survey carried out by an Indian TV channel in the summer of 2009 found that 87% of Indians now \"feel that knowledge of English is important to succeed in life\". Success and English are now tied together in the popular imagination across India.\u2022 David Graddol is a UK-based applied linguist and researcher. His study of English language education in India, English Next \u2013 India, commissioned by the British Council, is published this month.", "tags": ["Tefl", "India"], "title": "India chases language of success"},{"date": "2010-02-14T00:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Sometimes romance is a quiet connection rather than an intense declaration\u2026 which is why the most romantic moment in my life was on the night train from Varanasi to Delhi, when Christopher and I were barely even speaking.It was no one's fault, our six weeks' travelling around India had been astonishing: we moved open-mouthed from grand palaces to colourful markets, past adorable kids in neat school uniforms, to people living \u2013 quite literally \u2013 in holes in the wall. But now our senses were saturated and our wonder worn to a nub: we quietly shuffled on to the night train and into our bunks, barely exchanging a word.I don't know about Chris, but I was asleep in seconds \u2013 and the second-class sleeper compartment on an Indian train is not a quiet place. Snores of every pitch rang back and forth among the bunks like grunting finalists at Wimbledon; children woke, startled, as the train lurched along the tracks; mothers sleepily sang snatches of unfamiliar songs.I woke at dawn when the train stopped briefly at a small station in Shikohabad Junction, 65km east of Agra, and small boys flooded on to the train, lugging huge silver kettles. Chris was obviously awake, too: he climbed into my bunk nursing two glasses of chai \u2013 the hot spicy tea made with condensed milk which would be undrinkable anywhere else, but on an Indian train at dawn is nothing short of ambrosial.Road weary and grubby and sleep-deprived, Chris and I quietly sipped our tea, looking out the window at the gathering dawn light. It revealed a quiet India: ordinary people going about their everyday lives on the Great Plains, the flat fertile lands irrigated by the Ganges and its tributaries. The train slowed as we passed a small boy driving bison through the watery rice paddies with lazy flicks of a stick. The sun grew higher, caught in distant rivers which snaked like burnished copper into the horizon. It was almost celestial in its beauty.Without speaking, Chris took my hand and squeezed it. We could have slept through to Delhi \u2013 kept our energy for the last push of big sightseeing blockbusters. But instead we'd found and shared this quiet moment of light and simplicity. It felt like a gift.Jennifer Cox is the author of Around the World in 80 Dates (\u00a37.99, Arrow). The overnight train from Varanasi to Delhi costs \u00a313 one way (www.irctc.co.in). Emirates (www.emirates.com) flies from Heathrow to Varanasi from \u00a3608. Ffestiniog Travel (01766 772 030; www.festtravel.co.uk) has a six-night package from \u00a31,150, including flights from Heathrow, three nights each in Varanasi and Delhi, and the train journey from Varanasi to Delhi in a first-class sleeper. For details go to www.incredibleindia.org", "tags": ["Travel", "India holidays"], "title": "Destination romance: Varanasi India"},{"date": "2010-03-01T18:17:59Z", "country": "india", "content": "At William Farr, a Church of England comprehensive in Welton, Lincolnshire, dance is part of an annual crosscurricular enrichment day on Indian culture. Year 9 students get a taste of bharatanatyam, kathak and other south Asian dance styles traditionally used for storytelling by watching and performing with dancers from Kala Sangam, a leading South Asian arts organisation.For a \"largely white middle-class school in the Lincolnshire countryside\", it is a way of extending children's understanding of other cultures, says Carole Lymn, head of religious studies, sociology and psychology.\"Working with the professionals, they achieve something they can be proud of in the space of an hour, which is pretty amazing to see.\"Bradford-based Kala Sangam deliver cross-cultural collaborative projects to schools nationwide, while also supporting subject teaching, according to its chief executive Gheeta Upadhyaya. \"Insecondary, for example, we support PE but also explore subjects such as maths through dance, looking at rhythm cycles and time signatures and bringing in elements of geometry and number patterns.\"Dance can be a powerful tool in other ways, she adds.\"There is definitely a lot of self-esteem building, team-work and general positivity that flows from the dances. Students are creating something themselves, it's not just us teaching them what to do.", "tags": ["March 2010"], "title": "Passage to India"},{"date": "2010-02-10T09:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Rabiah is smiling. We're sitting in an emergency ward amongst rows of tiny beds filled with tiny children. They're all hooked up to intimidatingly large machinery. Mothers sit next to them, eyes tired and angst-ridden, faces drawn. Ten days ago Rabiah's ten-month-old twins were admitted to the same ward with life-threatening cases of respiratory tract infection. \"I thought they were going to die,\" Rabiah tells me.19-year-old Rabiah and her family are victims of Hurricane Aila \u2013 a brutal storm that affected the lives of millions of people in the Bengal region. Rabiah's family were rescued by an initiative to help malnourished families in the area.On-site doctor Subho Paul offers more insight into the twins' condition. \"Illnesses like this start with a common cold,\" he says. \"In the UK they'd be given a dose of Calpol.\"Here in India, however, underlying cases of malnutrition lead to such low immunity that even a small virus can throw a young child into a life-threatening state. These days it's not simply poverty that keeps families from being well-nourished: many can afford to eat but just don't know what to buy. Common misconceptions, such as choosing formula milk over breastfeeding, and expensive processed imports over local, nutritious fruit and vegetables, along with poor levels of hygiene and low rates of immunisation, all play a part in the shocking fact that a child in India dies every 15 seconds. Even more shocking is the fact that 70-80% of these life-threatening diseases are entirely preventable.With this in mind, the Child In Need India (Cini) was born. For over 35 years, teams of doctors, health workers and volunteers have been fighting to remove malnutrition from India's rural communities. Cini adopts a long-term approach, recognising that if you teach a mother how to help her own children, this new-found wisdom will have an effect on generations to come.Dr Paul shows me how people like Rabiah are helped to start changing their behaviour. \"Ten days ago, she would have been far too worried about her babies for us to preach to her about feeding habits,\" he says. \"First, we have to help the child.\"Once the baby's condition is stable enough to leave the emergency ward, mothers are admitted straight to Cini's very own nutritional rehabilitation centre. Each mother and child is provided with a room, where they are taught about good nutrition and preventative healthcare under the guidance of fully-trained health workers.Today the kindly Dr Debjani teaches a session on nutrition using coloured stripes of the Indian flag (red for protein, white for carbs, green for leafy vegetables). I'm intrigued by the animated, engaged responses to the doctor's questions. These women are enjoying their learning experience.The health workers in the nutritional rehabilitation centre are strong, sisterly women with a background in supporting inexperienced mothers. Along with the role of mentor, each health worker is trained to form a personal bond with each mother individually, so that they feel able to discuss intimate problems like domestic violence or sexual health.Awareness spreads from village to village through word of mouth. \"All we ask from the people is that they share what we have taught them,\" explains assistant director Abinash Gine. \"Not all women can make it directly to our centre, but if one woman can pass on a few things to her neighbours then, gradually, the whole community will gain.\"Cini raises funds through its 'Sponsor a Mother' programme to train mothers to run self-help groups in their own villages. Individual women take responsibility for 20 households at a time, holding monthly meetings to offer advice about pregnancy, education, family planning and the local services and support facilities that are available.Deep in the village of Jandatpur, I am faced with a surprisingly different scenario. Sanoka, 15, is telling me about the birth of her daughter, Rubsa. \"It was a complicated birth,\" she says. \"I had to visit the hospital many times because I had a lot of pain.\"Sanoka's medical records report a persistent abdominal pain, eventually resulting in an early birth through caesarian section. Women in rural India have died of lesser conditions. Her own young age puts baby Rubsa in a high-risk category for malnutrition-related problems.But Rubsa smiles at me with a chubby, round face. Her medical card shows that she's well off the malnutrition charts and up-to-date with all of her vaccinations. Sanoka's family eat a varied diet of protein, rice and local vegetables, from which she feeds her child seven times a day.I am astounded. Everywhere I go in Jandatpur and the surrounding villages, strong, healthy families beam back at me with a surprising defiance. \"We don't have malnutrition here,\" they tell me. \"It just isn't a problem.\"But this wasn't always the case. A spritely 72-year-old grandmother from the same village, Ingala, reveals a different story. \"When I was a mother we weren't allowed to talk about it,\" she explains. \"Pregnancy was a source of great shame. We weren't even meant to leave the house.\"Ingala gave birth eight times, and feels lucky that six of her children have survived. All of them were delivered in her own home. \"Back then we didn't even know that hospitals existed,\" she laughs. \"When the baby started coming, I just called out for help.\"Back at the emergency ward I meet Sashma, whose son Gorpal is so malnourished that he doesn't even have flesh where his buttocks should be. At two years old, he weighs only five kg; ten kg less than his optimum weight. At every touch from his mother he cries out in pain.Sashma is unable to pay attention to the doctor, to look away from her child or even to smile. I think of 15-year-old Sanoka: strong, healthy and competent, already expecting the best from the health service. I realise that this is how her life should be. These women deserve the chance to keep their children alive. \"You're in good hands,\" I want to tell Sashma. \"Things are moving forward.\"\u2022 Abigail Palmer is a freelance writer. Cini is running a 'Sponsor a Mother' scheme in the run-up to the UK Mother's Day celebrations.", "tags": ["India", "Global development", "Nutrition", "Malnutrition"], "title": "Fighting malnutrition in India"},{"date": "2010-02-26T15:15:09Z", "country": "india", "content": "Thomas Ruttig of the Afghanistan Analysts Network was staying near the site of today's attacks in Kabul. Ruttig's analysis of the insurgency last year is still widely circulated as one of the most dispassionate and accurate around. In a blog on today's attacks, Ruttig points out that the attack took place on the Prophet Mohamed's birthday and claimed mainly Muslim casualties. He also points out it happened the day after the first Indo-Pakistani talks since the Mumbai attacks in November 2008, and that the two main guesthouses targeted, Hamid's and Park Residence, were mainly used by Indian nationals. This possibly is no coincidence. In this connection, today's attack in Kabul can be read as another attack on Indian targets in Kabul (the Indian embassy here was bombed in July 2008) and \u2013 indirectly \u2013 on initiatives to improve the Indo-Pakistani relationship?So, why do the Taleban make themselves an instrument of those \u2013 by claiming responsibility \u2013 who do not want to see such an improvement to happen? Does the whole Taleban movement support such a strategy? What about Mulla Omar's statement of late last year that the Taleban do not threaten any neighboring and also any other country? Does that not apply for India? Does Zabihullah Mujahed speak for Mulla Omar or not?Or has this attack been carried out by other elements: Pakistani Taleban, the Haqqani network or those linked to groups like Lashkar-e Tayba or al-Qaida that has declared 'Hindu' India a target, too? Are Afghan elements linked to these groups (like the Haqqanis) out of Mulla Omar's control? This would apply to spokesman Zabihullah Mujahed, too.Ruttig suggests the attacks add weight to the view that the ISI's recent arrests have targeted Taliban leaders known to favour a political solution. By that reckoning, this attack was aimed jointly at the Indo-Pakistani peace moves and a political settlement in Afghanistan. A depressing prospect.", "tags": ["Afghanistan", "Taliban", "Pakistan", "India"], "title": "An attack aimed at India"},{"date": "2010-02-03T09:00:02Z", "country": "india", "content": "Alongside the great internet firewall of China, the vicious paranoia of Burma's ruling junta, and the lists of murdered journalists in Sri Lanka, India appears as a beacon of free speech and open-minded self-criticism. And yet, for all the vociferous passion of its journalists and activists in calling the powerful to account, the overall impression is of voices screaming into a vacuum.Nowhere is this feeling more evident right now than on the issue of the left-wing insurgency raging through India's poorest regions. Under the broadbrush moniker of Maoists or Naxalites, these insurgents represent one of the few forms of resistance for villagers and hill tribes against the inequities of continuing feudal structures and the encroachment of global corporations \u2013 backed by the state \u2013 who treat them as awkward impediments to mining plans.The Naxalites can be brutal, and the villagers under their control often find themselves unwillingly cut off from health services, education and development. But they have held on to the moral high ground thanks largely to a state response that has been unremittingly heavy-handed: special forces operations, the arming of vigilante groups, the dispossession of land, forced encampment \u2013 all accompanied by tales of extrajudicial killings, rapes and, for some godforsaken reason, the chopping off of children's fingers.India's civil society looks on in abhorrence at what is widely seen as a full-blown war against the poor. Even the government-appointed Council of Experts had to conclude that: \"Often any individual who speaks out against the powerful is dubbed a Naxalite and jailed or otherwise silenced. The search for Naxalite cadre leads to severe harassment and torture of its supporters and sympathisers.\"Those who try to report these crimes find themselves bundled away to police custody \"for their own protection\". This has been happening to Sodi Sambo, a 28-year-old woman from Gompar village in Chattisgarh who says she witnessed security forces murder nine of her neighbours in October 2009, and was herself shot in the foot in front of her two small children. She tried to file a complaint, only to find herself under armed guard in a nearby hospital with no visitors allowed and denied the right to travel to Delhi for treatment.With Amnesty International and the supreme court wading in, her case might just be heard. A couple of troops might even be reprimanded. In the meantime, the operations will continue. Just a fortnight ago, home minister Palaniappan Chidambaram announced another massive offensive across five states, confidently claiming it would target only insurgent leaders. Since no journalists are allowed anywhere near these war zones, we have to take his word for it.Which brings us back to the issue of free speech, and also its implications for military strategy. One of the key lessons of modern counter-insurgency is that you have to take the voters \u2013 and therefore the media \u2013 with you. Militaries have long struggled to balance the rights of a free press with the risk that they might record something that damages its credibility. In the west, this took centre stage in Vietnam, which many in the US military felt was a war fought and lost on the evening news and in the pages of Time magazine.That thinking has led to embedded journalism, military PR departments \u2013 even dedicated YouTube channels \u2013 which seek to \"sell\" the campaign back home and abroad. It has made governments acutely conscious of legitimacy, if not for moral reasons, then at least for its impact on operational effectiveness.In India, however, there seems to be scant concern for legitimacy in the anti-Naxal campaign beyond flagrant attempts to silence witnesses and bar journalists and activists from affected areas. When it does try to justify itself, the government hides behind the argument that the Maoists are impeding economic development that could improve the lives of the poor \u2013 ignoring studies that show this model of development may have actually increased the number of poor by 100 million.The Naxalite issue shows up a yawning chasm between what civil society says and what government does. The failure to listen means the government is losing not just the battle for hearts and minds, but even the physical fight on which it has focused its efforts. Last year, 319 security forces were killed compared with 219 Maoists \u2013 an extraordinary tally given the discrepancy in each side's resources.The fact is that any number of expos\u00e9s on the wrongs of this campaign has little or no impact on voters with so many other issues and allegiances to consider. Nor does the government fear the opprobrium of the international community, which is preoccupied with winning India's support in Afghanistan and salivating over her enormous defence budgets. The editor of one leading news publication admitted last week that the media's efforts were having \"no political impact\".The most pessimistic conclusion to draw is that free speech in India only serves to strengthen those who flout other articles in the constitution. \"How can we be authoritarian,\" the government can protest, \"when we allow the media such freedom to criticise us?\" Too often, however, the only victory of expression is its freedom to exist, rather than its power to effect change.Or we can be more optimistic, and take heart in the strength of ideas to gradually permeate through society and perhaps enthuse a future generation of leaders, tired of a system that stands so apart from the moral conscience embodied in its academics, activists, journalists and ordinary citizens, in whose name the brutal price of progress is paid. The superiority of India's civil society must surely, in time, earn it the influence it deserves.", "tags": ["India", "Vedanta Resources", "Freedom of speech", "Human rights", "Journalist safety", "Activism", "Mining", "World news", "Media", "Law"], "title": "India is ignoring its citizens | Eric Randolph"},{"date": "2010-01-20T09:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "India will become the world's most populous country within decades. Already it has more children in its schools than China. And there is now a huge and growing demand from parents from all social backgrounds that their children learn English.English may now be regarded as a key ingredient in India's economic success, but estimates of how many Indians actually know the language lack credibility, with numbers ranging from 11 million to 350 million.As with most things in India, English proficiency is distributed very unevenly across the diverse socio-economic groups.Because there is no assessment of spoken language proficiency in education exams, there is no way of knowing what range of skill levels exists in the population. But the reality is that English plays some role in the lives of all Indians, even those who say they cannot speak or read it.One of the reasons for this great demand for English is the buzz surrounding the Indian economy. Even in the last recessionary year, India's GDP is expected to grow by over 7%. Much of the recent Indian economic surge has been driven by the technology and call-centre sector, which has for the first time provided well-paid jobs for anyone who can speak English \u2013 regardless of social background. This started with the availability of low-cost, English-speaking graduates working for large north American and European companies, but the sector has matured rapidly and several Indian companies have now emerged as global players.But how much English is needed to support India's continued economic growth? Is the English-speaking talent pool running dry, as warnings from Nasscom, the sector's trade body, seem to suggest? Nasscom complains that only 15% of engineering graduates in India are \"employable\" \u2013 largely because they lack communication skills despite completing English-medium degrees.A Nasscom representative at a recent conference in Delhi spoke about the need for the education sector to supply employers with \"ready-to-eat\" graduates. This has started a lively debate about the quality of the higher education sector (dominated by English-medium institutions), but also about the proper role of education in Indian society.Yet, when overall employment is analysed more closely, it turns out that there have been remarkably few new jobs created in the whole of the organised sector. India has achieved largely jobless economic growth. Over 93% of the workforce works in the \"unorganised\" sector, which consists largely of low-paid, insecure jobs. So the important question facing India is whether English will help these hundreds of millions of workers improve their standard of living.Government ministers have made fine noises about the need to rapidly expand the vocational education sector, and the need to include English teaching as a key component. However, there is no sign yet of much happening on the ground, not least of where the job opportunities will be.Anecdotal evidence suggests that a little English will help maids, drivers and even a street beggar earn more, and that English helps workers find jobs in neighbouring states. But there has been little systematic research on the opportunities that English provides, or on what kind of English such workers might need. Not, one imagines, the mix of grammar and literature that has traditionally been taught in Indian classrooms.There are structural reasons for the slow expansion of jobs in services \u2013 mostly connected with protectionist policies designed to prevent hundreds of unskilled workers losing their jobs. Certain kinds of manufacturing, for example, have to remain in the hands of the small-scale, handicraft sector. Large-scale retail jobs have been slow to appear, because of limits on foreign investment. The UK-based supermarket business Tesco maintains a logistics centre in Bangalore that services its global operations, but it has not been able to open stores in India the way it has in China.There are hints at what might happen if this sector is allowed to grow. Perhaps nothing captures the spirit of the new, young, consuming classes in India better than Coffee Day, a chain of coffee shops that now reaches across India with 845 cafes in 128 cities. Coffee Day is an Indian company that provides a glimpse of potential future employment in the organised retail sector: employees are expected to be able to deal with customers in English.The fear is that if large chains emerge, they might provide thousands of new retail sector-jobs, but they might put millions of small, family-run stores out of business.From an educational perspective, it is easy to find reasons for not investing in English. It is hugely expensive. It also distracts from developing more basic needs in education: drinking water and toilets in schools, teachers who actually turn up and spend their time wisely in classrooms, improving enrolment and access to secondary schools, and extending education in a child's first language.There is, above all, a huge practical problem: a lack of teachers who speak English. Despite the emphasis now put on offering English to young learners, teachers in lower-primary school are weakest at English. In some states, only around 20% of teachers are thought to have even a basic English competence.India is a society in which English has long signified social status and education. But as televisions reach into ever more homes, as villages are connected by mobile phones and as new roads are built, the English language washes even into rural back\u00adwaters. It symbolises much more than the possibility of a better job: it provides a potential escape from poverty and the oppression of a lower-caste village life.A survey carried out by an Indian TV channel in the summer of 2009 found that 87% of Indians now \"feel that knowledge of English is important to succeed in life\". Success and English are now tied together in the popular imagination across India.\u2022 David Graddol is a UK-based applied linguist and researcher. His study of English language education in India, English Next \u2013 India, commissioned by the British Council, is published this month.", "tags": ["Tefl", "India"], "title": "India chases language of success"},{"date": "2010-01-07T18:00:01Z", "country": "india", "content": "Here in Australia the year has not started well on the race relations front. Yesterday saw the Australian branch of fast-food chain KFC condemned by sections of the American media over an advertisement deemed racist by African-Americans. But it is another, and more serious, international racism row that is dominating the headlines. It surrounds the knife murder of 21-year-old Indian university graduate Nitin Garg in Melbourne over the weekend.The response from the Indian community in Australia and the media back in India was unequivocally furious. Here, they said, was yet another demonstration of how Indian students have been singled out by racist Australian thugs. SM Krishna, India's external affairs minister, denounced the murder as a \"heinous act against humanity\" and \"an uncivilised brutal attack on innocent Indians\". His ministry has issued a warning to Indians planning to travel to Australia.Indians believe that Australian authorities are in denial about racist assaults against their compatriots. In the case of Garg's death, police in Melbourne so far have not concluded that it was the result of a hate crime. Senior federal government ministers have inflamed Indian anger with assurances that Australia remains safe for international students. One Delhi newspaper even published a cartoon depicting Melbourne police as the Klu Klux Klan.The reality is rather messier than either side of the debate might like to concede. Both the Indians and the Australian authorities are right, to some degree.The statistics suggest Indian complaints are not entirely unfounded: 1,447 people of Indian nationality were victims of crime in Victoria in the 12 months to July 2008. And yet, we would paint a distorted picture to say that racism is all to blame. There is no doubt that some violent attacks on Indian students have been racially motivated. But there is also no doubt that many have been the product of opportunistic criminals who have identified Indian students as soft targets (many work late nights to support themselves or supplement their incomes).Some perspective would do everyone good. The streets of Melbourne and Sydney, Australia's two main cities, do not resemble those of Baghdad or Johannesburg. As for Indian outrage about racism, it should be reminded that no one's hands are clean: what about the pogrom against Muslims conducted by Hindu nationalists in Gujarat in 2002?Even so, the problem of racism remains a real one in Australia, although it is not confined to the rise of an aggressive white nationalism, epitomised by gratuitous, narcissistic flag-waving and \"100% Aussie\" tattoos. When there was a surge of racist \"curry-bashings\" in the western suburbs of Sydney in 2009, it was not white Australians who were the culprits, but Australians of Middle Eastern (primarily Lebanese) background.The increasingly shrill tone of the Indian government and media does nothing to aid their cause, however. The Australian government and public are not indifferent to their grievances. Educating students from overseas earns Australia $A15.5bn per year, with Indians representing the second-largest source of students. Australians take genuine pride in being an open, safe and friendly country. The Australian government, for its part, sent a delegation to India led by deputy prime minister Julia Gillard last year in a bid to improve bilateral relations.The greater challenge, at the Australian end, seems to be cultural rather than political. There is in the country something of a benign neglect towards racism, in part because much of it tends to be of the low-level variety that could be easily excused as part of an ironic, knockabout, piss-taking Aussie sense of humour. \"Xenophobia\", as comedian Barry Humphries once quipped, \"is love of Australia\". Those who complain about racism are just taking themselves too seriously and fail to have a bit of a laugh at themselves. Perhaps so \u2013 sometimes. When it comes to racist violence, no one should be laughing.", "tags": ["India", "Australia news", "Race issues", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "India confronts Australia over racism | Tim Soutphommasane"},{"date": "2010-05-22T14:22:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Nearly 160 people were killed today when a plane overshot an airport runway and plunged into a gorge in southern India.Of the 166 people on board the Air India airliner, 158 died when it appeared to skid off the hilltop runway at Bajpe airport in Mangalore in heavy rain.Eight people survived the crash, which happened at 6.30am, and were being treated in nearby hospitals, according to local officials.One survivor, Pradeep G Kotian, 28, said: \"As soon as the plane touched the runway, it started vibrating and before we could realise what was happening, we heard a loud sound and the plane broke into two pieces. Then there was smoke and fire on the plane.\"Nobody could do anything. Luckily, I saw the opening where the plane had split into two, and I jumped out of it. I could see three others who had also jumped out from the same opening.\"Kotain, who injured his hand and suffered burns to his feet, told CNN-IBN TV that the fire on the plane was small at first, but an explosion sparked a bigger blaze.Another survivor, 47-year-old Krishnan K, said: \"It happened all of a sudden and I considered myself really lucky to have survived this crash. I thank God for my survival.\"Mayan Kutty, 48, who escaped the crash, said: \"I consider myself really lucky. As soon as I jumped out of the plane, I spoke to my wife thinking she might be worried. But she was shocked to hear the news.\"The Boeing 737-800, carrying 160 passengers and six crew members, crashed during heavy rains that also hampered the rescue effort. It is believed that cloudy conditions and reduced visibility may have contributed to the incident.The crash is believed to be the worst in India since the November 1996 mid-air collision between a Saudi airliner and a Kazakh cargo plane near New Delhi that killed 349 people.Bajpe airport, which has been shut following the crash, is on a plateau surrounded by hills, making it difficult for firefighters to reach the scene.The \"table-top\" runway ends in a valley, which means that if a plane overshoots it is likely to result in a major incident, according to aviation experts.Rescue workers had pulled 146 bodies from the charred wreckage, Air India official Jitender Bhargava said.Officials believed the chances of finding any more survivors were bleak, but efforts to recover and identify the bodies were expected to continue into the evening.C Basavanna, a regional fire officer, said: \"We arrived here at 7am after receiving an emergency call. Only 30% of the rescue work has been done so far and it may carry on beyond 7pm.\"Yogish Bhat, a member of the legislative assembly who rushed to the scene, said: \"Many relatives are coming to the spot. But the bodies are so charred, it is impossible to identify them here. So we are sending them to hospitals.\"Residents who helped with the rescue efforts described their shock at seeing the crash site.Mohammad Haris, 42, who lives near the airport, said: \"I heard a loud bang early in the morning. Initially I couldn't understand what happened, but then I saw smoke coming out from the valley near the airport.\"Along with a few other neighbours, I rushed to the spot. It was rather difficult to reach the site because of the dense vegetation. We began pulling bodies from the wreckage and one of us informed the local authorities. I have never seen anything like this before. I am shocked.\"The prime minister, Manmohan Singh, expressed his condolences and promised compensation for the families of the victims.\"This is a major calamity,\" the home minister for the state of Karnataka, VS Acharya, told CNN-IBN.The Air India director, Anup Srivastava, said in a statement: \"Air India Express regrets to announce that a B737-800 aircraft operating as flight IX-812 from Dubai to Mangalore was involved in an accident early this morning.\"The accident occurred after the aircraft landed at Mangalore airport and overshot the runway. We are confirming the number of casualties. We have opened helplines and are making arrangements for rescue.\"", "tags": ["India", "Plane crashes", "World news", "Travel"], "title": "Air India plane crash kills scores"},{"date": "2010-05-22T14:22:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Nearly 160 people were killed today when a plane overshot an airport runway and plunged into a gorge in southern India.Of the 166 people on board the Air India airliner, 158 died when it appeared to skid off the hilltop runway at Bajpe airport in Mangalore in heavy rain.Eight people survived the crash, which happened at 6.30am, and were being treated in nearby hospitals, according to local officials.One survivor, Pradeep G Kotian, 28, said: \"As soon as the plane touched the runway, it started vibrating and before we could realise what was happening, we heard a loud sound and the plane broke into two pieces. Then there was smoke and fire on the plane.\"Nobody could do anything. Luckily, I saw the opening where the plane had split into two, and I jumped out of it. I could see three others who had also jumped out from the same opening.\"Kotain, who injured his hand and suffered burns to his feet, told CNN-IBN TV that the fire on the plane was small at first, but an explosion sparked a bigger blaze.Another survivor, 47-year-old Krishnan K, said: \"It happened all of a sudden and I considered myself really lucky to have survived this crash. I thank God for my survival.\"Mayan Kutty, 48, who escaped the crash, said: \"I consider myself really lucky. As soon as I jumped out of the plane, I spoke to my wife thinking she might be worried. But she was shocked to hear the news.\"The Boeing 737-800, carrying 160 passengers and six crew members, crashed during heavy rains that also hampered the rescue effort. It is believed that cloudy conditions and reduced visibility may have contributed to the incident.The crash is believed to be the worst in India since the November 1996 mid-air collision between a Saudi airliner and a Kazakh cargo plane near New Delhi that killed 349 people.Bajpe airport, which has been shut following the crash, is on a plateau surrounded by hills, making it difficult for firefighters to reach the scene.The \"table-top\" runway ends in a valley, which means that if a plane overshoots it is likely to result in a major incident, according to aviation experts.Rescue workers had pulled 146 bodies from the charred wreckage, Air India official Jitender Bhargava said.Officials believed the chances of finding any more survivors were bleak, but efforts to recover and identify the bodies were expected to continue into the evening.C Basavanna, a regional fire officer, said: \"We arrived here at 7am after receiving an emergency call. Only 30% of the rescue work has been done so far and it may carry on beyond 7pm.\"Yogish Bhat, a member of the legislative assembly who rushed to the scene, said: \"Many relatives are coming to the spot. But the bodies are so charred, it is impossible to identify them here. So we are sending them to hospitals.\"Residents who helped with the rescue efforts described their shock at seeing the crash site.Mohammad Haris, 42, who lives near the airport, said: \"I heard a loud bang early in the morning. Initially I couldn't understand what happened, but then I saw smoke coming out from the valley near the airport.\"Along with a few other neighbours, I rushed to the spot. It was rather difficult to reach the site because of the dense vegetation. We began pulling bodies from the wreckage and one of us informed the local authorities. I have never seen anything like this before. I am shocked.\"The prime minister, Manmohan Singh, expressed his condolences and promised compensation for the families of the victims.\"This is a major calamity,\" the home minister for the state of Karnataka, VS Acharya, told CNN-IBN.The Air India director, Anup Srivastava, said in a statement: \"Air India Express regrets to announce that a B737-800 aircraft operating as flight IX-812 from Dubai to Mangalore was involved in an accident early this morning.\"The accident occurred after the aircraft landed at Mangalore airport and overshot the runway. We are confirming the number of casualties. We have opened helplines and are making arrangements for rescue.\"", "tags": ["India", "Plane crashes", "World news", "Travel"], "title": "Air India plane crash kills scores"},{"date": "2010-05-19T18:11:48Z", "country": "india", "content": "In most rural areas of India's north-eastern, oil-rich state of Assam, life comes to a halt a little after sunset. People latch their doors, and when children cry they are hushed up with the threat of army soldiers coming to shoot them. This was worse in the early 1990s, when brutal counter-insurgency operations to break down the separatist movement rocked the whole state.During the past three decades, these military operations have ended up spreading not only mistrust and even more resentment against the Indian state, but deep fears among the people of Assam over abuse.The state is now yearning for peace. Previous efforts by author Indira Goswami and the People's Consultative Group to broker talks between the Indian government and the insurgents had stalled in September 2006 to great disappointment. So when a new attempt at restoring peace between the insurgency and the government was taken up last month by Hiren Gohain \u2013 Assam's most respected public intellectual \u2013 millions of Assamese were looking forward to its outcome with great hope.This newly formed State Level Convention proposed that both parties \u2013 the government and the rebels \u2013 stop the civil war and agree on \"unconditional talks\" for the sake of peace and negotiate \"a special federal relationship\", where the Assamese people would have more autonomy and control over its resources. Both parties rejected the proposals, preferring to continue the war. The decision taken by the commander-in-chief of the secessionist outfit ULFA, Paresh Barua, comes from stubbornness. If this opportunity for peace isn't ever taken, my home state will be flung into an abyss.Already, a lot has been lost. A whole generation of thinking men who took up arms with the hope of a free Assam in 1979 have been wiped out, maimed, co-opted. Many others were almost driven into insanity during the state-wide systematic killings of rebels' relatives, allegedly by the Indian government. The secret killings of Assam remains a dark event that went almost unreported in the international press. As well as the stubbornness of Paresh Barua \u2013 who wants secession or nothing \u2013 perhaps the Indian government can also be blamed for creating an environment unsuited to a peace process.The ULFA was formed in 1979 with mass support in Assam. In the following 30 years, brutal state terrorism has tested the loyalties of the Assamese. As reports of ULFA becoming pawns of organisations such as Pakistan's ISI, which seek to destabilise India, is regularly published, the dream of a sovereign Assamese republic has ceased. It is a tragedy that even after prolonged oppression and hardship, when several major ULFA leaders were captured in December, a large crowd gathered around the Guwahati high court shouting: \"Hail ULFA\".As the Assamese romanticise the ULFA as their saviours, there remains the reality that Assam is one of the greatest failures of the Indian nation. During Indira Goswami's peace efforts, the common cry was: \"Please bring our sons back.\" The \"occupying\" Indian forces don't know how to deal with such strong emotions. Perhaps Delhi's decision to continue the \"counter-insurgency operations\" is a ploy to keep international attention away from the real issues: the rights of the indigenous Assamese people in oil-rich Assam.Secession isn't the real solution to the Assam crisis, but discussion of secession is. It is time the world finds out whether the accusations of internal colonisation on the peripheral states of India is true. It is time also to analyse what Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi said in 1946, in Srirampore, a year before independence: \"It (Assam) must become fully independent and autonomous ... If you do not act correctly and now, Assam will be finished.\"On the day of celebrating India's independence, many places in Assam refused to unfurl the national flag. Instead, there were black flags fluttering in the summer air.\u2022 This article was commissioned after the author contacted us via the You tell us page", "tags": ["India", "World news"], "title": "India needs talks for Assam's peace | Aruni Kashyap"},{"date": "2010-05-22T14:22:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Nearly 160 people were killed today when a plane overshot an airport runway and plunged into a gorge in southern India.Of the 166 people on board the Air India airliner, 158 died when it appeared to skid off the hilltop runway at Bajpe airport in Mangalore in heavy rain.Eight people survived the crash, which happened at 6.30am, and were being treated in nearby hospitals, according to local officials.One survivor, Pradeep G Kotian, 28, said: \"As soon as the plane touched the runway, it started vibrating and before we could realise what was happening, we heard a loud sound and the plane broke into two pieces. Then there was smoke and fire on the plane.\"Nobody could do anything. Luckily, I saw the opening where the plane had split into two, and I jumped out of it. I could see three others who had also jumped out from the same opening.\"Kotain, who injured his hand and suffered burns to his feet, told CNN-IBN TV that the fire on the plane was small at first, but an explosion sparked a bigger blaze.Another survivor, 47-year-old Krishnan K, said: \"It happened all of a sudden and I considered myself really lucky to have survived this crash. I thank God for my survival.\"Mayan Kutty, 48, who escaped the crash, said: \"I consider myself really lucky. As soon as I jumped out of the plane, I spoke to my wife thinking she might be worried. But she was shocked to hear the news.\"The Boeing 737-800, carrying 160 passengers and six crew members, crashed during heavy rains that also hampered the rescue effort. It is believed that cloudy conditions and reduced visibility may have contributed to the incident.The crash is believed to be the worst in India since the November 1996 mid-air collision between a Saudi airliner and a Kazakh cargo plane near New Delhi that killed 349 people.Bajpe airport, which has been shut following the crash, is on a plateau surrounded by hills, making it difficult for firefighters to reach the scene.The \"table-top\" runway ends in a valley, which means that if a plane overshoots it is likely to result in a major incident, according to aviation experts.Rescue workers had pulled 146 bodies from the charred wreckage, Air India official Jitender Bhargava said.Officials believed the chances of finding any more survivors were bleak, but efforts to recover and identify the bodies were expected to continue into the evening.C Basavanna, a regional fire officer, said: \"We arrived here at 7am after receiving an emergency call. Only 30% of the rescue work has been done so far and it may carry on beyond 7pm.\"Yogish Bhat, a member of the legislative assembly who rushed to the scene, said: \"Many relatives are coming to the spot. But the bodies are so charred, it is impossible to identify them here. So we are sending them to hospitals.\"Residents who helped with the rescue efforts described their shock at seeing the crash site.Mohammad Haris, 42, who lives near the airport, said: \"I heard a loud bang early in the morning. Initially I couldn't understand what happened, but then I saw smoke coming out from the valley near the airport.\"Along with a few other neighbours, I rushed to the spot. It was rather difficult to reach the site because of the dense vegetation. We began pulling bodies from the wreckage and one of us informed the local authorities. I have never seen anything like this before. I am shocked.\"The prime minister, Manmohan Singh, expressed his condolences and promised compensation for the families of the victims.\"This is a major calamity,\" the home minister for the state of Karnataka, VS Acharya, told CNN-IBN.The Air India director, Anup Srivastava, said in a statement: \"Air India Express regrets to announce that a B737-800 aircraft operating as flight IX-812 from Dubai to Mangalore was involved in an accident early this morning.\"The accident occurred after the aircraft landed at Mangalore airport and overshot the runway. We are confirming the number of casualties. We have opened helplines and are making arrangements for rescue.\"", "tags": ["India", "Plane crashes", "World news", "Travel"], "title": "Air India plane crash kills scores"},{"date": "2010-05-19T18:11:48Z", "country": "india", "content": "In most rural areas of India's north-eastern, oil-rich state of Assam, life comes to a halt a little after sunset. People latch their doors, and when children cry they are hushed up with the threat of army soldiers coming to shoot them. This was worse in the early 1990s, when brutal counter-insurgency operations to break down the separatist movement rocked the whole state.During the past three decades, these military operations have ended up spreading not only mistrust and even more resentment against the Indian state, but deep fears among the people of Assam over abuse.The state is now yearning for peace. Previous efforts by author Indira Goswami and the People's Consultative Group to broker talks between the Indian government and the insurgents had stalled in September 2006 to great disappointment. So when a new attempt at restoring peace between the insurgency and the government was taken up last month by Hiren Gohain \u2013 Assam's most respected public intellectual \u2013 millions of Assamese were looking forward to its outcome with great hope.This newly formed State Level Convention proposed that both parties \u2013 the government and the rebels \u2013 stop the civil war and agree on \"unconditional talks\" for the sake of peace and negotiate \"a special federal relationship\", where the Assamese people would have more autonomy and control over its resources. Both parties rejected the proposals, preferring to continue the war. The decision taken by the commander-in-chief of the secessionist outfit ULFA, Paresh Barua, comes from stubbornness. If this opportunity for peace isn't ever taken, my home state will be flung into an abyss.Already, a lot has been lost. A whole generation of thinking men who took up arms with the hope of a free Assam in 1979 have been wiped out, maimed, co-opted. Many others were almost driven into insanity during the state-wide systematic killings of rebels' relatives, allegedly by the Indian government. The secret killings of Assam remains a dark event that went almost unreported in the international press. As well as the stubbornness of Paresh Barua \u2013 who wants secession or nothing \u2013 perhaps the Indian government can also be blamed for creating an environment unsuited to a peace process.The ULFA was formed in 1979 with mass support in Assam. In the following 30 years, brutal state terrorism has tested the loyalties of the Assamese. As reports of ULFA becoming pawns of organisations such as Pakistan's ISI, which seek to destabilise India, is regularly published, the dream of a sovereign Assamese republic has ceased. It is a tragedy that even after prolonged oppression and hardship, when several major ULFA leaders were captured in December, a large crowd gathered around the Guwahati high court shouting: \"Hail ULFA\".As the Assamese romanticise the ULFA as their saviours, there remains the reality that Assam is one of the greatest failures of the Indian nation. During Indira Goswami's peace efforts, the common cry was: \"Please bring our sons back.\" The \"occupying\" Indian forces don't know how to deal with such strong emotions. Perhaps Delhi's decision to continue the \"counter-insurgency operations\" is a ploy to keep international attention away from the real issues: the rights of the indigenous Assamese people in oil-rich Assam.Secession isn't the real solution to the Assam crisis, but discussion of secession is. It is time the world finds out whether the accusations of internal colonisation on the peripheral states of India is true. It is time also to analyse what Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi said in 1946, in Srirampore, a year before independence: \"It (Assam) must become fully independent and autonomous ... If you do not act correctly and now, Assam will be finished.\"On the day of celebrating India's independence, many places in Assam refused to unfurl the national flag. Instead, there were black flags fluttering in the summer air.\u2022 This article was commissioned after the author contacted us via the You tell us page", "tags": ["India", "World news"], "title": "India needs talks for Assam's peace | Aruni Kashyap"},{"date": "2010-04-29T13:18:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "So India plans to severely limit \"tiger tourism\" \u2013 the economic highwire on which tiger survival and protection teetered for the last 30 years. Anyone who has seen the ugly charade of wild tigers being hemmed in by trained elephants only for hordes of tourists to shoot them with cameras ought to be pleased, shouldn't they?\u00a0Well, no, not exactly. The decision, unhappily, probably means that the tiger can now be exterminated in peace and quiet \u2013 directly by the poachers, and indirectly by the illegal loggers. Both of these destructive criminal groups are being ably defended and emboldened by elements in India's corrupt political classes, its feeble law enforcers and its porcine business community.The tiger, as everyone knows, is in deep trouble. From an estimated 40,000 animals in India a century ago, the number is now down to around 1,400, according to the most recent national tiger census in 2008. Four sub-species are now extinct. In January 2005 the Sariska national park was forced to admit that all of its supposed 35 tigers had been killed after a group of students from the Wildlife Institute of India searched the park and couldn't find any, an expos\u00e9 that also uncovered how park officials had been falsely exaggerating tiger numbers for years.\u00a0Some experts argued that numbers might have fallen below the minimum for a viable population, something that would mean certain extinction in the wild.It was never tourists that\u00a0undermined the tiger protection campaign. When tigers disappeared from Panna and Sariska Parks, it was tourists and local nature-lovers who blew the whistle on park officials who had gerrymandered the tiger statistics, hiding losses to poachers. There is further evidence from eminent tiger scientist and whistleblower, Dr Raghu Chundawat, that increasing tourist numbers have actually helped tiger preservation in Madhya Pradesh, the so-called tiger state, probably by making poaching more difficult. No doubt there is a problem with tourism and tigers right now in India. Rising visitor numbers has led to a rapid growth in wildlife lodges and resorts \u2013 development that has come, reputedly, with some nice kickbacks for officials. Most of these new sightseers are solely concerned with tigers, an obsession that has helped distract from the fact that India's wonderful forests are being damaged and many of its 500\u00a0species of animal and 1,200 birds\u00a0are heading, remorselessly, for extinction. On one trip in 2009, I repeatedly ran into a jeep of tourists speeding around desperately looking for a tiger. They had driven straight past a pack of dhole, the Indian wild dog, ironically a species rarer than the tiger.How to avoid the dreadful probability of tiger extinction? One gleam of hope is that some experts, including Julian Matthews of the charity, Tour Operators for Tigers, feel that the way forward is with eco-tourism in well-managed parks - something along the lines already tried in Africa. If handled correctly, increased visitor numbers, the logic goes, could encourage good practice and ward off poachers. So change tourism, but not do away with it. Take away the elephant drives and the endless traffic jams of jeeps filled with chattering city-educated guides who often know less than the average visitor. Start some real tourism: walking and trekking in jungle areas using local guides who can point out the myriad of wonderful plants and animals. Forsyth Lodge at Satpura has made a commendable start on this, but many tour operators are not even aware that such trips are permissible.\u00a0When I was in Madhya Pradesh in 2009, the then chief wildlife officer, Dr H S Pabla explicitly stated that hiking in India's parks was now legal.The ordinary park workers have a wealth of knowledge about wildlife that is routinely ignored, or simply hidden behind language barriers. Snobbery and arrogance about such communities, many of them tribal, is rampant in India, but the parks have a wealth of talent and right-minded individuals. I've been on safaris where the driver, silent because of low caste, knew a million times more than the \"expert\" guide, a Mumbai whizz-kid with a degree.That is not to suggest that real expertise and genuine enthusiasm do not appear at all levels of the heirarchy and it is these people, whatever their caste, tribe, or education, who are needed to lead the way out of the mess. Sensitively-managed tourism needs to be encouraged, as do the many young Indian visitors who are now in the vanguard of changing attitudes towards the environment in the country. Cutting them off from any prospect of seeing a tiger will only harm the cause.", "tags": ["India holidays", "Travel", "Conservation", "Wildlife", "Environment", "Endangered species", "Ethical holidays"], "title": "India bans tiger tourism"},{"date": "2010-05-22T14:22:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Nearly 160 people were killed today when a plane overshot an airport runway and plunged into a gorge in southern India.Of the 166 people on board the Air India airliner, 158 died when it appeared to skid off the hilltop runway at Bajpe airport in Mangalore in heavy rain.Eight people survived the crash, which happened at 6.30am, and were being treated in nearby hospitals, according to local officials.One survivor, Pradeep G Kotian, 28, said: \"As soon as the plane touched the runway, it started vibrating and before we could realise what was happening, we heard a loud sound and the plane broke into two pieces. Then there was smoke and fire on the plane.\"Nobody could do anything. Luckily, I saw the opening where the plane had split into two, and I jumped out of it. I could see three others who had also jumped out from the same opening.\"Kotain, who injured his hand and suffered burns to his feet, told CNN-IBN TV that the fire on the plane was small at first, but an explosion sparked a bigger blaze.Another survivor, 47-year-old Krishnan K, said: \"It happened all of a sudden and I considered myself really lucky to have survived this crash. I thank God for my survival.\"Mayan Kutty, 48, who escaped the crash, said: \"I consider myself really lucky. As soon as I jumped out of the plane, I spoke to my wife thinking she might be worried. But she was shocked to hear the news.\"The Boeing 737-800, carrying 160 passengers and six crew members, crashed during heavy rains that also hampered the rescue effort. It is believed that cloudy conditions and reduced visibility may have contributed to the incident.The crash is believed to be the worst in India since the November 1996 mid-air collision between a Saudi airliner and a Kazakh cargo plane near New Delhi that killed 349 people.Bajpe airport, which has been shut following the crash, is on a plateau surrounded by hills, making it difficult for firefighters to reach the scene.The \"table-top\" runway ends in a valley, which means that if a plane overshoots it is likely to result in a major incident, according to aviation experts.Rescue workers had pulled 146 bodies from the charred wreckage, Air India official Jitender Bhargava said.Officials believed the chances of finding any more survivors were bleak, but efforts to recover and identify the bodies were expected to continue into the evening.C Basavanna, a regional fire officer, said: \"We arrived here at 7am after receiving an emergency call. Only 30% of the rescue work has been done so far and it may carry on beyond 7pm.\"Yogish Bhat, a member of the legislative assembly who rushed to the scene, said: \"Many relatives are coming to the spot. But the bodies are so charred, it is impossible to identify them here. So we are sending them to hospitals.\"Residents who helped with the rescue efforts described their shock at seeing the crash site.Mohammad Haris, 42, who lives near the airport, said: \"I heard a loud bang early in the morning. Initially I couldn't understand what happened, but then I saw smoke coming out from the valley near the airport.\"Along with a few other neighbours, I rushed to the spot. It was rather difficult to reach the site because of the dense vegetation. We began pulling bodies from the wreckage and one of us informed the local authorities. I have never seen anything like this before. I am shocked.\"The prime minister, Manmohan Singh, expressed his condolences and promised compensation for the families of the victims.\"This is a major calamity,\" the home minister for the state of Karnataka, VS Acharya, told CNN-IBN.The Air India director, Anup Srivastava, said in a statement: \"Air India Express regrets to announce that a B737-800 aircraft operating as flight IX-812 from Dubai to Mangalore was involved in an accident early this morning.\"The accident occurred after the aircraft landed at Mangalore airport and overshot the runway. We are confirming the number of casualties. We have opened helplines and are making arrangements for rescue.\"", "tags": ["India", "Plane crashes", "World news", "Travel"], "title": "Air India plane crash kills scores"},{"date": "2010-05-19T18:11:48Z", "country": "india", "content": "In most rural areas of India's north-eastern, oil-rich state of Assam, life comes to a halt a little after sunset. People latch their doors, and when children cry they are hushed up with the threat of army soldiers coming to shoot them. This was worse in the early 1990s, when brutal counter-insurgency operations to break down the separatist movement rocked the whole state.During the past three decades, these military operations have ended up spreading not only mistrust and even more resentment against the Indian state, but deep fears among the people of Assam over abuse.The state is now yearning for peace. Previous efforts by author Indira Goswami and the People's Consultative Group to broker talks between the Indian government and the insurgents had stalled in September 2006 to great disappointment. So when a new attempt at restoring peace between the insurgency and the government was taken up last month by Hiren Gohain \u2013 Assam's most respected public intellectual \u2013 millions of Assamese were looking forward to its outcome with great hope.This newly formed State Level Convention proposed that both parties \u2013 the government and the rebels \u2013 stop the civil war and agree on \"unconditional talks\" for the sake of peace and negotiate \"a special federal relationship\", where the Assamese people would have more autonomy and control over its resources. Both parties rejected the proposals, preferring to continue the war. The decision taken by the commander-in-chief of the secessionist outfit ULFA, Paresh Barua, comes from stubbornness. If this opportunity for peace isn't ever taken, my home state will be flung into an abyss.Already, a lot has been lost. A whole generation of thinking men who took up arms with the hope of a free Assam in 1979 have been wiped out, maimed, co-opted. Many others were almost driven into insanity during the state-wide systematic killings of rebels' relatives, allegedly by the Indian government. The secret killings of Assam remains a dark event that went almost unreported in the international press. As well as the stubbornness of Paresh Barua \u2013 who wants secession or nothing \u2013 perhaps the Indian government can also be blamed for creating an environment unsuited to a peace process.The ULFA was formed in 1979 with mass support in Assam. In the following 30 years, brutal state terrorism has tested the loyalties of the Assamese. As reports of ULFA becoming pawns of organisations such as Pakistan's ISI, which seek to destabilise India, is regularly published, the dream of a sovereign Assamese republic has ceased. It is a tragedy that even after prolonged oppression and hardship, when several major ULFA leaders were captured in December, a large crowd gathered around the Guwahati high court shouting: \"Hail ULFA\".As the Assamese romanticise the ULFA as their saviours, there remains the reality that Assam is one of the greatest failures of the Indian nation. During Indira Goswami's peace efforts, the common cry was: \"Please bring our sons back.\" The \"occupying\" Indian forces don't know how to deal with such strong emotions. Perhaps Delhi's decision to continue the \"counter-insurgency operations\" is a ploy to keep international attention away from the real issues: the rights of the indigenous Assamese people in oil-rich Assam.Secession isn't the real solution to the Assam crisis, but discussion of secession is. It is time the world finds out whether the accusations of internal colonisation on the peripheral states of India is true. It is time also to analyse what Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi said in 1946, in Srirampore, a year before independence: \"It (Assam) must become fully independent and autonomous ... If you do not act correctly and now, Assam will be finished.\"On the day of celebrating India's independence, many places in Assam refused to unfurl the national flag. Instead, there were black flags fluttering in the summer air.\u2022 This article was commissioned after the author contacted us via the You tell us page", "tags": ["India", "World news"], "title": "India needs talks for Assam's peace | Aruni Kashyap"},{"date": "2010-04-29T13:18:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "So India plans to severely limit \"tiger tourism\" \u2013 the economic highwire on which tiger survival and protection teetered for the last 30 years. Anyone who has seen the ugly charade of wild tigers being hemmed in by trained elephants only for hordes of tourists to shoot them with cameras ought to be pleased, shouldn't they?\u00a0Well, no, not exactly. The decision, unhappily, probably means that the tiger can now be exterminated in peace and quiet \u2013 directly by the poachers, and indirectly by the illegal loggers. Both of these destructive criminal groups are being ably defended and emboldened by elements in India's corrupt political classes, its feeble law enforcers and its porcine business community.The tiger, as everyone knows, is in deep trouble. From an estimated 40,000 animals in India a century ago, the number is now down to around 1,400, according to the most recent national tiger census in 2008. Four sub-species are now extinct. In January 2005 the Sariska national park was forced to admit that all of its supposed 35 tigers had been killed after a group of students from the Wildlife Institute of India searched the park and couldn't find any, an expos\u00e9 that also uncovered how park officials had been falsely exaggerating tiger numbers for years.\u00a0Some experts argued that numbers might have fallen below the minimum for a viable population, something that would mean certain extinction in the wild.It was never tourists that\u00a0undermined the tiger protection campaign. When tigers disappeared from Panna and Sariska Parks, it was tourists and local nature-lovers who blew the whistle on park officials who had gerrymandered the tiger statistics, hiding losses to poachers. There is further evidence from eminent tiger scientist and whistleblower, Dr Raghu Chundawat, that increasing tourist numbers have actually helped tiger preservation in Madhya Pradesh, the so-called tiger state, probably by making poaching more difficult. No doubt there is a problem with tourism and tigers right now in India. Rising visitor numbers has led to a rapid growth in wildlife lodges and resorts \u2013 development that has come, reputedly, with some nice kickbacks for officials. Most of these new sightseers are solely concerned with tigers, an obsession that has helped distract from the fact that India's wonderful forests are being damaged and many of its 500\u00a0species of animal and 1,200 birds\u00a0are heading, remorselessly, for extinction. On one trip in 2009, I repeatedly ran into a jeep of tourists speeding around desperately looking for a tiger. They had driven straight past a pack of dhole, the Indian wild dog, ironically a species rarer than the tiger.How to avoid the dreadful probability of tiger extinction? One gleam of hope is that some experts, including Julian Matthews of the charity, Tour Operators for Tigers, feel that the way forward is with eco-tourism in well-managed parks - something along the lines already tried in Africa. If handled correctly, increased visitor numbers, the logic goes, could encourage good practice and ward off poachers. So change tourism, but not do away with it. Take away the elephant drives and the endless traffic jams of jeeps filled with chattering city-educated guides who often know less than the average visitor. Start some real tourism: walking and trekking in jungle areas using local guides who can point out the myriad of wonderful plants and animals. Forsyth Lodge at Satpura has made a commendable start on this, but many tour operators are not even aware that such trips are permissible.\u00a0When I was in Madhya Pradesh in 2009, the then chief wildlife officer, Dr H S Pabla explicitly stated that hiking in India's parks was now legal.The ordinary park workers have a wealth of knowledge about wildlife that is routinely ignored, or simply hidden behind language barriers. Snobbery and arrogance about such communities, many of them tribal, is rampant in India, but the parks have a wealth of talent and right-minded individuals. I've been on safaris where the driver, silent because of low caste, knew a million times more than the \"expert\" guide, a Mumbai whizz-kid with a degree.That is not to suggest that real expertise and genuine enthusiasm do not appear at all levels of the heirarchy and it is these people, whatever their caste, tribe, or education, who are needed to lead the way out of the mess. Sensitively-managed tourism needs to be encouraged, as do the many young Indian visitors who are now in the vanguard of changing attitudes towards the environment in the country. Cutting them off from any prospect of seeing a tiger will only harm the cause.", "tags": ["India holidays", "Travel", "Conservation", "Wildlife", "Environment", "Endangered species", "Ethical holidays"], "title": "India bans tiger tourism"},{"date": "2010-06-25T18:29:32Z", "country": "india", "content": "Shobha and Monica were cousins. They walked to school together through the narrow, fly-ridden alleys of Wazirpur, a once rural village now overtaken by the sprawling suburbs of northern Delhi. They were often in each other's homes, narrow apartments with little privacy.They sometimes met at the dairy, an ill-lit room stacked with steel churns and basins of curd where a friend, Deepak, 18, remembered Shobha as \"pretty, fun, outgoing\".Shobha, 20, had a rebellious streak. Sometimes, she even took the bus to McDonald's or the mall in the upmarket neighbourhood just a mile or so away. Friends said she wanted to be a model.Monica, 24, was more serious. She had married a local boy, Kuldeep, four years ago and was, relatives said, happy with her new life.Shobha, Monica and Kuldeep were each shot twice in the head last Sunday evening. They had no reason to suspect their murderers. One was Shobha's brother, Mandeep. The other was Monica's brother, Ankit. The third was a local boy known to them both.There are 1,000 \"honour killings\" a year in India, according to one recent study, but few reveal the underlying causes as the triple murder of Wazipur. Significantly, the Indian capital itself has seen an unprecedented spate of such incidents in recent weeks.All six of those involved in last weekend's murders were living on frontiers: between Wazirpur, their working-class neighbourhood, and Ashok Vihar, the adjacent upmarket suburb; between the increasingly cosmopolitan Indian capital and its deeply conservative hinterland; between the crushing poverty of their parent's childhoods and the relative wealth of their own.It is a world in which caste, traditional authority and arranged marriage clashed with aspirations to Bollywood-style romance. The age of all those involved is significant, according to Professor Surinder Jodhka of Delhi's Jawaharlal Nehru University.All were born around the time of the major changes that liberalised India's economy in the early 1990s, sparking rapid growth.\"They grew up in post-reform India.This is a new generation reaching the age of marriage,\" Jodhjka told the Guardian.Monica and Kuldeep were on the point of crossing the gulf between the old India and the new. They lived in a rented flat and Kuldeep commuted to his job in a call centre.They had eloped too \u2013 the first from Wazirpur ever to do so. They had also ignored India's system of prejudice and hierarchy as they came from different castes. Yet, their parents had accepted the match. \"We were not against it,\" said Jai Singh Naggar.Unlike in many \"honour killings\" \u2013 such as that of a girl and her lower caste boyfriend beaten to death with iron rods in another Delhi neighbourhood earlier this month \u2013 older family members were not involved.Nor was there any direct sanction given by community elders. \"We cannot stop them. What has to happen will happen. But we do not think it was a good thing to do,\" said Mahinder Kahri, 64, head of the local council.The murderers acted alone, albeit having grown up steeped in a culture of honour, patriarchal authority and violent retribution for transgression.The spark for the killing appears to have been the disappearance of Shobha's sister with her own \"boyfriend\". Shobha herself had previously run away with a man. She had come back home alone but the damage had been done.\"For years her brother had got no respect round here. Even his friends were taunting him. When Shobha did the same thing, he just felt he had to act,\" Saurav, 18, told the Guardian.Shobha's brother thus sought out Ankit, the brother of Monica. He too was being taunted for the shame his sister's unauthorised marriage brought the family. The two enlisted a mutual friend.Prem Chowdhry, a respected historian and researcher, said it was unsurprising that young men had taken the lead role. In the neighbouring state of Haryana, foeticide of girls has led to a ratio of 800 women to every 1,000 men. Women also \"marry up\" \u2013 Monica's husband came from the higher rajput class \u2013 leaving more than a third of lower caste men without wives, she said.\"The social situation is very volatile. The marriage market is very tight and that causes huge problems. Youngsters react very strongly. If a woman makes an independent choice she has to pay the penalty,\" Chowdhry said.In Wazirpur yesterday, teenage boys were backing the murderers. \"Whatever happened is for the best. There's a limit to how much you can take. I'd do the same to my sister,\" said Rohit, 17.After the killings, the three Wazirpur men fled in a borrowed car, first to Ghaziabad and then to the spiritual centre of Rishikesh, where they threw the home-made murder weapon into the waters of the Ganges. Hours later they were arrested.", "tags": ["India"], "title": "Triple murder in India highlights increase in 'honour killings'"},{"date": "2010-09-17T23:05:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "This is a confession. I've been at it again \u2013 travelling, and on a motorcycle. Though only a small one, it feels quite sinful.I am 77. I should know better, grow up, act my age, potter sedately round a golf course in an electric buggy. But, no, I choose to spend six months exploring the Indian subcontinent.My wife, of course, is pleased to have me out of the house. Men, when they don't work five days a week, occupy too much space. We have irritating habits \u2013 not putting the seat back down, leaving dirty socks and underpants on the floor, failing to put the milk and butter back in the refrigerator.What do my sons think? The older two, in their 40s, merely shrug; Dad's acting true to form. But Joshua and Jedediah are university age. Ancient Dad playing Che Guevara is an embarrassment. Their gap-year friends message me: \"Hi, Simon, have you left yet? We're in the Andaman Islands.\"To which Joshua posts: \"Oh, my God, my 78-year-old dad on Facebook.\"I reply: \"Only 76, please. I will celebrate my 77th birthday in Goa.\"Fellow oldies corner me and ask questions. How are your preparations going? What route will you take?What should I answer? That planning is time ill used, time in which to grow nervous, fearful even, relive two heart attacks suffered 15 years ago in Guatemala's highlands or dwell on a more recent memory of a truck smashing my leg the first day of my ride north from Tierra del Fuego \u2013 which meant five weeks in plaster and having to carry crutches on the bike all the way to New York. So, no, no planning, no wiggling a toe in a swimming pool. Leap is the only way. Pack the bare necessities: six months of heart medication, good shoes for meeting rajas and maharajas (mine are 20-year-old Church's) and wear one of those multi-pocketed waistcoats to avoid mislaying the essentials.I haven't visited India in 40 years. Delhi is a shock. When I was last here only sadhus talked out loud to themselves. Now everyone does it, rich or poor, old or young, all yakking into mobile phones. Fewer cows wander the streets, more cars \u2013 and myriad cab and tuk-tuk drivers practise unmetered highway robbery. Traffic circles and intersections are reminiscent of first world war aerial combat; every pilot picks his own line of attack \u2013 go for the gaps or lose your tail.Am I scared? Yes, obviously.Humid windless winter days shroud the Mogul splendour and Victorian pomposity in a veil of blue exhaust fumes. Wise travellers wear surgical face masks. But oh, the food! I head for the old Muslim quarter beside the Jama Masjid mosque for divine kebabs \u2014 and being an offal lover rejoice at delicately spiced lamb's brain.Forty years have passed since I last sought wisdom from a Sufi teacher at the shrine of Nizamuddin Auliya, the Sufi saint. His son teaches now the same heretical message: God doesn't mind which route you take to him, only that you arrive.South next, to Agra, astride Honda India's latest 125 cafe racer (model name Stunner), fire-engine red and comically unsuitable as the mount for an overweight antique. This is a land of flat dusty fields stretching to a mirage-quivering horizon. Drivers respond neither to law nor logic.Each mud-wall village is a chaotic marketplace, full of handcarts, pedal-bikes, rickshaws, cows, goats, pigs, sheep, the occasional donkey or elephant. I pass men in white dhotis, women in brilliantly coloured saris. Tractors, trucks and buses barge past with sirens blaring where I creep timidly, British interloper guilt-ridden by childhood memories of the Empire. I stop for tea and a crowd converges \u2013 though the bike is of greater interest than the Ancient Brit.Agra's Taj Mahal is a grotesque monument to the male ego: marvel at the wealth and power with which I immortalise my love. I prefer to cross the Yamuna river to a tomb of modest size but of exquisite delicacy, where the parents of Nur Jahan lie side by side, lovers holding hands for eternity. Such tenderness and beauty bring me close to tears. Everywhere I go, people are keen to talk. I fall into conversation in the great courtyard of the Red Fort with the president of a Delhi-based American software corporation. He spends his days facing a computer monitor yet loathes computers. Computers destroy the family, he says. But they are the main link to mine while I'm travelling.At Akbar I visit the red sandstone imperial complex of Fatehpur Sikri . \"Do you find this beautiful?\" demands a small aggressive Indian gentleman as I admire the intricate carvings. \"No, no, this is not beautiful,\" he says. \"Have you seen Hampton Court? There is beauty.\" So he continues until, in desperation, I ask of his companion, a tall younger man in short sleeves and trainers: \"Do you have to listen to this?\"\"Listen? I've been listening for six weeks. He's my dad,\" he replies, accent indelibly marked by an English public school and the home counties.Jaipur, rose city of Rajasthan, is hosting a literary festival when I arrive. Famous writers bask in five-star luxury at the maharajah's palace; bulge-bellied Indian movie actors glide self-importantly among their worshipers; meanwhile the poor sleep and breed and cook and defecate on the sidewalk.In Jodhpur I admire the art deco splendour of the Umaid Bhawan Palace \u2013 347 rooms, 15 years in the building, the charitable maharajah's make-work project for his starving subjects. Why not a city sewage system?Pushkar is a haven for pony-tailed relics of the psychedelic 1970s still searching for enlightenment in a cloud of smoke. Staff and guests sit glaze-eyed in the hotel garden. Stars sparkle. The holy lake is empty.Gazelle gaze as I stop beneath a tree on the desert road to Jaisalmer. Here, below the golden walls of the fort, I watch two Sikh brothers rebuild a 1961 Royal Enfield Bullet motorbike while a craftsman tailors me a bag in camel hide. Keep the myriad fortresses and palaces; this is the Rajasthan I love: rich gummy scents of the desert, dunes trembling in the heat, the lifted upper lip of a camel as it nibbles the few thin green leaves on a thorn tree; scrawny goats perched on a branch. I halt in a village and loll on a string bed in the shade, sipping sweet milk tea.Leaving the desert aridity behind, I head south to Mumbai and then to Goa, the winter goal of our 1960s overland trips. This is a green land of forested hills, milk-coffee rivers, coconut palm and rice paddy. Immense rain trees offer shade. The sea perfumes the air with salt and iodine. Menus feature fresh fish and prawns. I was warned Goa had been ruined. But not for me, nor for the thousands of tourists who bask in the sun. The sand is as golden, Goans as welcoming. The bungalow I rented on Calangute 40 years ago has become a beach bar. I luxuriate at the Taj Hotel's cliff-top resort. A band plays me awake and the front desk manager calls, \"Happy 77th birthday, grandfather. Up you get. We're going to give you a wonderful day.\"Then I'm heading south through Kerala's magical canals and lagoons to the very tip of India at Kanyakumari, Tamil Nadu, to go paddling at sunset, one foot in the Indian Ocean, one in the Bay of Bengal. My journey is half way done.Bad experiences? Not even a puncture. However the heat is intense. Oven-baked fields wait for the monsoon rains. I race north up the east coast to Kolkata, but with Sikkim and Assam as my goal, leave at dawn and ride all day. Kodaikanal, Mamallapuram and Puri are way stations, and I pause for a day to explore Orissa \u2013 the byways of its littoral, the emerald paddies, creeks and ponds carpeted with lilies and water hyacinth where herons, white egrets and water buffalo stand. Straw-roofed huts are reflected in a temple's water tank.In Kolkata I am banned, to the embarrassment of my Indian hosts, from the bar and dining room of the city's most prestigious social club. My social sin? Wearing an Indian shirt (collarless). Poverty in Kolkata may be marginally more obscene than in Mumbai or Delhi \u2013 yet this is a city to love for the energy and humour and generosity of the people. My guide to the city is Indian food writer Colonel Rajan Bali. We set out for lunch or dinner, the colonel in the lead, each of his first few strides accompanied by a clap of his hands. Such were the games-master encouragements of my youth: come on chaps \u2026So onward and upward to Sikkim, land of spring where rhododendrons and primulas paint high valleys and the magic peaks of Mount Kanchendzonga shimmer in sunshine. Sikkim's women own themselves and wave and shout and laugh as I pass. Brightly dressed pickers speckle tea gardens. Wisps of cloud curl through pine forest. I ride at dawn and pray beside Khecheopalri Lake, follow friends in their jeep up a military road from Lachung to the snow line: these are my memories. By this stage I have met many people, I am befriended by all ages, my own is irrelevant, and I have found it is an expanding friendship that directs me onward. You must visit so and so. They're expecting you.So it is in Assam. Here I discover the tranquillity of the raja's 19th-century compound in the small town of Abhayapuri; the gateway town of Guwahati, one of India's fastest growing cities; and the Kaziranga national park, where black rhino waddle in baggy bloomers of armour plate. All I need is a last hurrah ...I am warned that the road over the mountains to Tawang in Arunachal Pradesh is bad. I can handle it. The road climbs first through clouded forest, visibility 15 metres. I halt at a tiny tin-shack teahouse. Two inebriated young tribal police with big guns demand a kiss. They give me a peck on the cheek and I flee. After a night's sleep at Dirang I face the Sela Pass, the high route into the Tawang valley, once part of Tibet. Bits of road have fallen down the mountain. Bits of mountain have fallen on the road. Wind blasts a chilling cold off the snow peaks. Old fool, frightened of heights, don't look down. I reach the top at 4,180m and am too exhausted to dismount. Yet the descent is glorious, the climate changing from late winter through spring to early summer as I wind my way down. A last climb to Tawang town and clouds close in. Thankfully there are places to stay, interesting food to eat, the monastery to visit. Rain falls continuously for five days, stretches of road turn to deep liquid mud. The bike has no chance here. A 4x4 pickup is the only solution. After a final dinner with much beer with the military commandant on Assam's border, two soldiers escort me to bed and my journey is done.What have I learned? That I am no longer a teenager. But what the heck? Go for it, grandpa. Go for it. This is living. I'm already back on the road \u2026 I have just started a trip through California and Mexico and I'm planning to be in Nigeria in February for my 78th.Check out Simon Gandolfi's travels at simongandolfi.com. See Simon's video of his India trip above.Blazing Trails Tours (01902 894009, blazingtrailstours.com) has two-week motorbike holidays to various regions of India, including Rajasthan, Goa, Kerala and the Himalayas. Prices range from \u00a31,499 to \u00a32,650 and include bike (usually a 350cc Enfield), mechanical back-up, medical and luggage-carrying support and B&B accommodation but not flights. In Delhi, Lalli Motorbike Exports (+91 11 2875 0869, lallisingh.com) rents 500cc Royal Enfields from around \u00a3235 per month.", "tags": ["India holidays", "Road trips", "Travel"], "title": "Round India by motorbike"},{"date": "2010-09-17T23:05:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "This is a confession. I've been at it again \u2013 travelling, and on a motorcycle. Though only a small one, it feels quite sinful.I am 77. I should know better, grow up, act my age, potter sedately round a golf course in an electric buggy. But, no, I choose to spend six months exploring the Indian subcontinent.My wife, of course, is pleased to have me out of the house. Men, when they don't work five days a week, occupy too much space. We have irritating habits \u2013 not putting the seat back down, leaving dirty socks and underpants on the floor, failing to put the milk and butter back in the refrigerator.What do my sons think? The older two, in their 40s, merely shrug; Dad's acting true to form. But Joshua and Jedediah are university age. Ancient Dad playing Che Guevara is an embarrassment. Their gap-year friends message me: \"Hi, Simon, have you left yet? We're in the Andaman Islands.\"To which Joshua posts: \"Oh, my God, my 78-year-old dad on Facebook.\"I reply: \"Only 76, please. I will celebrate my 77th birthday in Goa.\"Fellow oldies corner me and ask questions. How are your preparations going? What route will you take?What should I answer? That planning is time ill used, time in which to grow nervous, fearful even, relive two heart attacks suffered 15 years ago in Guatemala's highlands or dwell on a more recent memory of a truck smashing my leg the first day of my ride north from Tierra del Fuego \u2013 which meant five weeks in plaster and having to carry crutches on the bike all the way to New York. So, no, no planning, no wiggling a toe in a swimming pool. Leap is the only way. Pack the bare necessities: six months of heart medication, good shoes for meeting rajas and maharajas (mine are 20-year-old Church's) and wear one of those multi-pocketed waistcoats to avoid mislaying the essentials.I haven't visited India in 40 years. Delhi is a shock. When I was last here only sadhus talked out loud to themselves. Now everyone does it, rich or poor, old or young, all yakking into mobile phones. Fewer cows wander the streets, more cars \u2013 and myriad cab and tuk-tuk drivers practise unmetered highway robbery. Traffic circles and intersections are reminiscent of first world war aerial combat; every pilot picks his own line of attack \u2013 go for the gaps or lose your tail.Am I scared? Yes, obviously.Humid windless winter days shroud the Mogul splendour and Victorian pomposity in a veil of blue exhaust fumes. Wise travellers wear surgical face masks. But oh, the food! I head for the old Muslim quarter beside the Jama Masjid mosque for divine kebabs \u2014 and being an offal lover rejoice at delicately spiced lamb's brain.Forty years have passed since I last sought wisdom from a Sufi teacher at the shrine of Nizamuddin Auliya, the Sufi saint. His son teaches now the same heretical message: God doesn't mind which route you take to him, only that you arrive.South next, to Agra, astride Honda India's latest 125 cafe racer (model name Stunner), fire-engine red and comically unsuitable as the mount for an overweight antique. This is a land of flat dusty fields stretching to a mirage-quivering horizon. Drivers respond neither to law nor logic.Each mud-wall village is a chaotic marketplace, full of handcarts, pedal-bikes, rickshaws, cows, goats, pigs, sheep, the occasional donkey or elephant. I pass men in white dhotis, women in brilliantly coloured saris. Tractors, trucks and buses barge past with sirens blaring where I creep timidly, British interloper guilt-ridden by childhood memories of the Empire. I stop for tea and a crowd converges \u2013 though the bike is of greater interest than the Ancient Brit.Agra's Taj Mahal is a grotesque monument to the male ego: marvel at the wealth and power with which I immortalise my love. I prefer to cross the Yamuna river to a tomb of modest size but of exquisite delicacy, where the parents of Nur Jahan lie side by side, lovers holding hands for eternity. Such tenderness and beauty bring me close to tears. Everywhere I go, people are keen to talk. I fall into conversation in the great courtyard of the Red Fort with the president of a Delhi-based American software corporation. He spends his days facing a computer monitor yet loathes computers. Computers destroy the family, he says. But they are the main link to mine while I'm travelling.At Akbar I visit the red sandstone imperial complex of Fatehpur Sikri . \"Do you find this beautiful?\" demands a small aggressive Indian gentleman as I admire the intricate carvings. \"No, no, this is not beautiful,\" he says. \"Have you seen Hampton Court? There is beauty.\" So he continues until, in desperation, I ask of his companion, a tall younger man in short sleeves and trainers: \"Do you have to listen to this?\"\"Listen? I've been listening for six weeks. He's my dad,\" he replies, accent indelibly marked by an English public school and the home counties.Jaipur, rose city of Rajasthan, is hosting a literary festival when I arrive. Famous writers bask in five-star luxury at the maharajah's palace; bulge-bellied Indian movie actors glide self-importantly among their worshipers; meanwhile the poor sleep and breed and cook and defecate on the sidewalk.In Jodhpur I admire the art deco splendour of the Umaid Bhawan Palace \u2013 347 rooms, 15 years in the building, the charitable maharajah's make-work project for his starving subjects. Why not a city sewage system?Pushkar is a haven for pony-tailed relics of the psychedelic 1970s still searching for enlightenment in a cloud of smoke. Staff and guests sit glaze-eyed in the hotel garden. Stars sparkle. The holy lake is empty.Gazelle gaze as I stop beneath a tree on the desert road to Jaisalmer. Here, below the golden walls of the fort, I watch two Sikh brothers rebuild a 1961 Royal Enfield Bullet motorbike while a craftsman tailors me a bag in camel hide. Keep the myriad fortresses and palaces; this is the Rajasthan I love: rich gummy scents of the desert, dunes trembling in the heat, the lifted upper lip of a camel as it nibbles the few thin green leaves on a thorn tree; scrawny goats perched on a branch. I halt in a village and loll on a string bed in the shade, sipping sweet milk tea.Leaving the desert aridity behind, I head south to Mumbai and then to Goa, the winter goal of our 1960s overland trips. This is a green land of forested hills, milk-coffee rivers, coconut palm and rice paddy. Immense rain trees offer shade. The sea perfumes the air with salt and iodine. Menus feature fresh fish and prawns. I was warned Goa had been ruined. But not for me, nor for the thousands of tourists who bask in the sun. The sand is as golden, Goans as welcoming. The bungalow I rented on Calangute 40 years ago has become a beach bar. I luxuriate at the Taj Hotel's cliff-top resort. A band plays me awake and the front desk manager calls, \"Happy 77th birthday, grandfather. Up you get. We're going to give you a wonderful day.\"Then I'm heading south through Kerala's magical canals and lagoons to the very tip of India at Kanyakumari, Tamil Nadu, to go paddling at sunset, one foot in the Indian Ocean, one in the Bay of Bengal. My journey is half way done.Bad experiences? Not even a puncture. However the heat is intense. Oven-baked fields wait for the monsoon rains. I race north up the east coast to Kolkata, but with Sikkim and Assam as my goal, leave at dawn and ride all day. Kodaikanal, Mamallapuram and Puri are way stations, and I pause for a day to explore Orissa \u2013 the byways of its littoral, the emerald paddies, creeks and ponds carpeted with lilies and water hyacinth where herons, white egrets and water buffalo stand. Straw-roofed huts are reflected in a temple's water tank.In Kolkata I am banned, to the embarrassment of my Indian hosts, from the bar and dining room of the city's most prestigious social club. My social sin? Wearing an Indian shirt (collarless). Poverty in Kolkata may be marginally more obscene than in Mumbai or Delhi \u2013 yet this is a city to love for the energy and humour and generosity of the people. My guide to the city is Indian food writer Colonel Rajan Bali. We set out for lunch or dinner, the colonel in the lead, each of his first few strides accompanied by a clap of his hands. Such were the games-master encouragements of my youth: come on chaps \u2026So onward and upward to Sikkim, land of spring where rhododendrons and primulas paint high valleys and the magic peaks of Mount Kanchendzonga shimmer in sunshine. Sikkim's women own themselves and wave and shout and laugh as I pass. Brightly dressed pickers speckle tea gardens. Wisps of cloud curl through pine forest. I ride at dawn and pray beside Khecheopalri Lake, follow friends in their jeep up a military road from Lachung to the snow line: these are my memories. By this stage I have met many people, I am befriended by all ages, my own is irrelevant, and I have found it is an expanding friendship that directs me onward. You must visit so and so. They're expecting you.So it is in Assam. Here I discover the tranquillity of the raja's 19th-century compound in the small town of Abhayapuri; the gateway town of Guwahati, one of India's fastest growing cities; and the Kaziranga national park, where black rhino waddle in baggy bloomers of armour plate. All I need is a last hurrah ...I am warned that the road over the mountains to Tawang in Arunachal Pradesh is bad. I can handle it. The road climbs first through clouded forest, visibility 15 metres. I halt at a tiny tin-shack teahouse. Two inebriated young tribal police with big guns demand a kiss. They give me a peck on the cheek and I flee. After a night's sleep at Dirang I face the Sela Pass, the high route into the Tawang valley, once part of Tibet. Bits of road have fallen down the mountain. Bits of mountain have fallen on the road. Wind blasts a chilling cold off the snow peaks. Old fool, frightened of heights, don't look down. I reach the top at 4,180m and am too exhausted to dismount. Yet the descent is glorious, the climate changing from late winter through spring to early summer as I wind my way down. A last climb to Tawang town and clouds close in. Thankfully there are places to stay, interesting food to eat, the monastery to visit. Rain falls continuously for five days, stretches of road turn to deep liquid mud. The bike has no chance here. A 4x4 pickup is the only solution. After a final dinner with much beer with the military commandant on Assam's border, two soldiers escort me to bed and my journey is done.What have I learned? That I am no longer a teenager. But what the heck? Go for it, grandpa. Go for it. This is living. I'm already back on the road \u2026 I have just started a trip through California and Mexico and I'm planning to be in Nigeria in February for my 78th.Check out Simon Gandolfi's travels at simongandolfi.com. See Simon's video of his India trip above.Blazing Trails Tours (01902 894009, blazingtrailstours.com) has two-week motorbike holidays to various regions of India, including Rajasthan, Goa, Kerala and the Himalayas. Prices range from \u00a31,499 to \u00a32,650 and include bike (usually a 350cc Enfield), mechanical back-up, medical and luggage-carrying support and B&B accommodation but not flights. In Delhi, Lalli Motorbike Exports (+91 11 2875 0869, lallisingh.com) rents 500cc Royal Enfields from around \u00a3235 per month.", "tags": ["India holidays", "Road trips", "Travel"], "title": "Round India by motorbike"},{"date": "2010-09-07T09:05:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The Indian \"homestay\" experience has grown from strength to strength since the idea first emerged in Kerala, a decade or so ago. Now there are homestay tours and specialist agencies for the many hospitable families offering modestly priced accommodation in a variety of homes from city apartments to plantation houses. The majority are in the far north or the far south (Delhi, Rajasthan, Kerala), but the idea is spreading into other states. As a general rule, they are middle-class houses, largely run by the active retired professionals, though there are younger, or poorer, families among homestay hosts. Website galleries proudly feature pictures of \"European-style toilets\"; they often promise safe drinking water, station and airport pick-ups, drinks in the lounge among the family portraits. Some simply offer homely bed and breakfast while others veer towards the boutique hotel (which is reflected in the price), but the ones to look for are those that invite you to join the family, sample home-cooked regional food and explore the suburbs, hilltops and backwaters of those untouristy corners of India you might never otherwise see.The former home of the Maharajah of Sirohi, this mansion of a townhouse is close to Civil Lines, in the thick of Old Delhi, but only two metro stops from Chandni Chowk (three from Connaught Circus). Beyond the gates, a private drive leads up to a grand entrance. It's big on ornate fireplaces, chandeliers, carved hardwood, bits of Hindu temple (the owner, the amiable Ashok Sahdev, collects antiques). For guests there's a choice of two standard doubles and two suites, all with bathrooms, air-con and cable TV, plus the run of the communal rooms - including a cocktail lounge with bar where you can chat over G&Ts. They serve up sit-down meals, buffets, barbecues, picnics, canap\u00e9s and even room service. And a big plus is the lovely urban garden \u2013 a world away from the mayhem of the Indian capital.\u2022 From \u00a347 a night; homeandhospitality.co.uk.Vikram is a retired air force officer; Paaro is descended from the Rajput aristocracy and she has her own clothing company (kaftans and vegetable-dyed cottons). Their home is a suburban villa to the west of Jaipur; a series of airy, open-plan living spaces arranged around a flower-filled atrium; marble floors, a roof terrace, antique-modern furnishings, two guest bedrooms with a private lounge and a self-contained cottage in the garden. Paaro can organise cookery demonstrations, Hindi lessons, yoga classes, or a visit to her clothing factory. Or you can just hang out in the garden on lawns dotted with fruit trees (papaya, pomegranate, custard apple) and organise your next outing (the Ranawats have family all over Rajasthan).\u2022 From \u00a326 a night; homeandhospitality.co.uk.Set in a quiet residential area, the house has a bowling-green lawn, geraniums spilling out of window boxes and views of the Shivalik hills - this city in the Doon Valley is the capital of Uttarakhand and makes a handy stopover en route from Delhi to the Himalayan National Park. After settling into your homely room, Mr Mehra, a retired wool processing specialist, wheels out the drinks trolley (whisky, anyone?), while his wife hands around her apparently famous snacks (try the tandoori chicken or the lamb brain kebabs). From the balcony you can see the misty forests of Mussoorie - the so-called Queen of hill stations. You can walk there in three hours or, for a modest fee, borrow the Mehras' car and driver.\u2022 From \u00a327 a night; homeandhospitality.co.uk.This smart city bolthole in south Delhi's Defence Colony is home to well-travelled couple Arun and Suman Khanna (the Colonel takes its name from Arun's Indian army father). Three bright guest rooms offer clean-cut decor and all mod-cons (marble bathrooms, Wi-Fi, air-con, cable TV and hospitality trays). There are balconies to sit out on, views of the city, staff to look after you (all meals are provided on request), plus the help and hospitality of your charming hosts (Arun is particularly up on round-Delhi cycling routes). Shops, markets, restaurants and the Humayun tomb, a World Heritage site, are all within walking distance.\u2022 From \u00a357 a night; colonelsretreat.com (also mahindrahomestays.com).Jamshed and Ayesha Madon's lovely Goan house sits in lush tropical gardens in a quiet hamlet roughly halfway between the market town of Mapusa and Baga beach. Jamshed, an ex-merchant mariner, and Ayesha, a former journalist, built the traditional-style house after moving south from Mumbai to start a new life. They now run a successful Italian restaurant, J&A's in Baga; they have a young son, eight-year-old Zal, a family of dogs and cats and three cool, spacious guest rooms - two in the house and one in a self-contained cottage in the garden. All are furnished with snazzy modern bathrooms and antique beds. Relax on the verandah or the sala (the Madons' living room), enjoy simple, homemade lunches such as curries, rice and salads, help yourself to a drink from the honesty bar, or head for the beach (a 15-minute drive). A swimming pool is planned for later this year.\u2022 From \u00a360 a night; capellagoa.com.This isn't one homestay, but a whole community of them \u2013 a choice of 14 in all, spread across six high-altitude villages all in the isolated Pin Valley, set against the frosted peaks of the Himalayas (Kibber, one of the world's highest villages, stands 4,500m above sea level). As homestays go, these mud-and-brick dwellings are a bit rougher than most (instead of bathrooms you get buckets of hot water, and the toilets are composting squats) but the guest rooms \u2013 one a household - are clean, and colourful, furnished with rugs and folksy fabrics. Aside from home-cooked Spitian cuisine (momos perhaps, or noodle soup), you get rugged scenery, invigorating mountain air, smiling faces and the odd yak safari. Not only will you step into a way of life in this Bhuddist community that hasn't really changed for centuries, but you will also help to keep it going.\u2022 Rooms from \u00a335 a night, including meals and a guide; mahindrahomestays.com.At Kuttanad, a tranquil corner of the Keralan backwaters, this \"heritage homestay\" is the 150-year-old home of a Syrian Christian family, Chackochan Edayady (\"Mr Chacko\") and his wife Salimma. Although both are academics (he is a professor of pharmacy; she teaches chemistry), they still run the family farm, a few watery acres of paddy and coconut palms just off the River Pampa. A traditional Keralan granary house (carved wood, a wraparound verandah, a pagoda-like tiled roof), provides three guest rooms (two are air-conditioned); and the food is fresh, homely and plentiful. Visit the magnificent St Mary's Forane church at Pulinconnoo, meet the locals, potter about in a country boat, or take a backwater trip to, say, Alappuzha (12 miles away).From a \u00a3100 a double, full board; nelpura.com, +91 477 2702336 (also keralaconnections.co.uk, +44 (0)1892 724913).In the heart of rubber country (between the hot coastal plains and the high tea gardens of the Western Ghats), George and Anju Abraham's 1950s house looks more Florida than Kerala - all Art Deco curves and decks of concrete \u2013 but what it offers is a taste of traditional Indian plantation life. Set in a tropical garden, peeking at the Mundakayam Valley through slender rubber trees, the bungalow has two large, simply furnished guest rooms, whirling ceiling fans, wicker chairs on shaded verandahs. George's family has farmed here for generations and he's keen to show you around: the Pullakaya River, the village rubber factory, Mundakayam's colonial-era planters' club. Dine en famille, while Anju bustles in and out with plate after plate of wonderful food: Appams with mild vegetable stew, fish moily, meat-ball curry, banana fry, fresh passion fruit juice (home grown). You can nip into the kitchen and see how it's done.\u2022 From \u00a359 a night; mahindrahomestays.com, +44 (0)203 140 8422 or stayhomz.com/evergreen.htm, +91 48 28 28431.In the Wayanad District, a belt of rainforest in the northern Keralan highlands, Glenora is one of those homestays for whom success has meant a push upmarket - but that doesn't dim the quality of the experience. Home to the hospitable Rajagopal family, and registered as a \"farm tourism provider\", the house is set in 90 acres of coffee, pepper, betel nut, lime, ginger, guava and avocado among other fruit and spices. As well as three light, well-furnished rooms in the house, there are two new cottages on stilts (each of the latter has two balconies overlooking the plantation \u2013 birds, monkeys, foliage and not another house in sight). Activities include trekking, jeep safaris, badminton and trips to Sunrise Valley (less than a mile away), Meenmutty Falls or the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary.\u2022 B&B from \u00a345 a night; glenorahomestay.com, +91 4936 217550/217450 (also mahindrahomestays.com).In the Sindhudurg region of southern Maharashtra, this rustic, adobe-style home offers two guest rooms opening on to a wide verandah that overlooks Ammu and Ashish Padgaonkar's farm - 12 acres of cashews, pineapples and coconut palms. It's off the beaten track, a bit of real India, but they offer hot water, proper loos and a great location. To the east is Amboli, the little hill station in the Sahyadri hills, to the west, the beaches of Vengurla - both are less than 20 miles away. Hop on a train at nearby Sawantwadi station (on the mainline Konkan Railway), and you can be in northern Goa in half an hour (the state border is some 10 miles south). Or just stay put; try a local bullock-cart ride, kcik back in a Nandan Farms hammock or enjoy Ammu's excellent cooking (fried mackerel, say, or Malvani-style chicken curry).\u2022 Doubles from around \u00a336 a night, full board; responsibletravel.com.", "tags": ["India holidays", "Hotels", "Asia", "Travel", "Kerala holidays", "Delhi holidays", "Goa holidays", "Top 10s"], "title": "Ten top homestays in India"},{"date": "2010-09-17T23:05:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "This is a confession. I've been at it again \u2013 travelling, and on a motorcycle. Though only a small one, it feels quite sinful.I am 77. I should know better, grow up, act my age, potter sedately round a golf course in an electric buggy. But, no, I choose to spend six months exploring the Indian subcontinent.My wife, of course, is pleased to have me out of the house. Men, when they don't work five days a week, occupy too much space. We have irritating habits \u2013 not putting the seat back down, leaving dirty socks and underpants on the floor, failing to put the milk and butter back in the refrigerator.What do my sons think? The older two, in their 40s, merely shrug; Dad's acting true to form. But Joshua and Jedediah are university age. Ancient Dad playing Che Guevara is an embarrassment. Their gap-year friends message me: \"Hi, Simon, have you left yet? We're in the Andaman Islands.\"To which Joshua posts: \"Oh, my God, my 78-year-old dad on Facebook.\"I reply: \"Only 76, please. I will celebrate my 77th birthday in Goa.\"Fellow oldies corner me and ask questions. How are your preparations going? What route will you take?What should I answer? That planning is time ill used, time in which to grow nervous, fearful even, relive two heart attacks suffered 15 years ago in Guatemala's highlands or dwell on a more recent memory of a truck smashing my leg the first day of my ride north from Tierra del Fuego \u2013 which meant five weeks in plaster and having to carry crutches on the bike all the way to New York. So, no, no planning, no wiggling a toe in a swimming pool. Leap is the only way. Pack the bare necessities: six months of heart medication, good shoes for meeting rajas and maharajas (mine are 20-year-old Church's) and wear one of those multi-pocketed waistcoats to avoid mislaying the essentials.I haven't visited India in 40 years. Delhi is a shock. When I was last here only sadhus talked out loud to themselves. Now everyone does it, rich or poor, old or young, all yakking into mobile phones. Fewer cows wander the streets, more cars \u2013 and myriad cab and tuk-tuk drivers practise unmetered highway robbery. Traffic circles and intersections are reminiscent of first world war aerial combat; every pilot picks his own line of attack \u2013 go for the gaps or lose your tail.Am I scared? Yes, obviously.Humid windless winter days shroud the Mogul splendour and Victorian pomposity in a veil of blue exhaust fumes. Wise travellers wear surgical face masks. But oh, the food! I head for the old Muslim quarter beside the Jama Masjid mosque for divine kebabs \u2014 and being an offal lover rejoice at delicately spiced lamb's brain.Forty years have passed since I last sought wisdom from a Sufi teacher at the shrine of Nizamuddin Auliya, the Sufi saint. His son teaches now the same heretical message: God doesn't mind which route you take to him, only that you arrive.South next, to Agra, astride Honda India's latest 125 cafe racer (model name Stunner), fire-engine red and comically unsuitable as the mount for an overweight antique. This is a land of flat dusty fields stretching to a mirage-quivering horizon. Drivers respond neither to law nor logic.Each mud-wall village is a chaotic marketplace, full of handcarts, pedal-bikes, rickshaws, cows, goats, pigs, sheep, the occasional donkey or elephant. I pass men in white dhotis, women in brilliantly coloured saris. Tractors, trucks and buses barge past with sirens blaring where I creep timidly, British interloper guilt-ridden by childhood memories of the Empire. I stop for tea and a crowd converges \u2013 though the bike is of greater interest than the Ancient Brit.Agra's Taj Mahal is a grotesque monument to the male ego: marvel at the wealth and power with which I immortalise my love. I prefer to cross the Yamuna river to a tomb of modest size but of exquisite delicacy, where the parents of Nur Jahan lie side by side, lovers holding hands for eternity. Such tenderness and beauty bring me close to tears. Everywhere I go, people are keen to talk. I fall into conversation in the great courtyard of the Red Fort with the president of a Delhi-based American software corporation. He spends his days facing a computer monitor yet loathes computers. Computers destroy the family, he says. But they are the main link to mine while I'm travelling.At Akbar I visit the red sandstone imperial complex of Fatehpur Sikri . \"Do you find this beautiful?\" demands a small aggressive Indian gentleman as I admire the intricate carvings. \"No, no, this is not beautiful,\" he says. \"Have you seen Hampton Court? There is beauty.\" So he continues until, in desperation, I ask of his companion, a tall younger man in short sleeves and trainers: \"Do you have to listen to this?\"\"Listen? I've been listening for six weeks. He's my dad,\" he replies, accent indelibly marked by an English public school and the home counties.Jaipur, rose city of Rajasthan, is hosting a literary festival when I arrive. Famous writers bask in five-star luxury at the maharajah's palace; bulge-bellied Indian movie actors glide self-importantly among their worshipers; meanwhile the poor sleep and breed and cook and defecate on the sidewalk.In Jodhpur I admire the art deco splendour of the Umaid Bhawan Palace \u2013 347 rooms, 15 years in the building, the charitable maharajah's make-work project for his starving subjects. Why not a city sewage system?Pushkar is a haven for pony-tailed relics of the psychedelic 1970s still searching for enlightenment in a cloud of smoke. Staff and guests sit glaze-eyed in the hotel garden. Stars sparkle. The holy lake is empty.Gazelle gaze as I stop beneath a tree on the desert road to Jaisalmer. Here, below the golden walls of the fort, I watch two Sikh brothers rebuild a 1961 Royal Enfield Bullet motorbike while a craftsman tailors me a bag in camel hide. Keep the myriad fortresses and palaces; this is the Rajasthan I love: rich gummy scents of the desert, dunes trembling in the heat, the lifted upper lip of a camel as it nibbles the few thin green leaves on a thorn tree; scrawny goats perched on a branch. I halt in a village and loll on a string bed in the shade, sipping sweet milk tea.Leaving the desert aridity behind, I head south to Mumbai and then to Goa, the winter goal of our 1960s overland trips. This is a green land of forested hills, milk-coffee rivers, coconut palm and rice paddy. Immense rain trees offer shade. The sea perfumes the air with salt and iodine. Menus feature fresh fish and prawns. I was warned Goa had been ruined. But not for me, nor for the thousands of tourists who bask in the sun. The sand is as golden, Goans as welcoming. The bungalow I rented on Calangute 40 years ago has become a beach bar. I luxuriate at the Taj Hotel's cliff-top resort. A band plays me awake and the front desk manager calls, \"Happy 77th birthday, grandfather. Up you get. We're going to give you a wonderful day.\"Then I'm heading south through Kerala's magical canals and lagoons to the very tip of India at Kanyakumari, Tamil Nadu, to go paddling at sunset, one foot in the Indian Ocean, one in the Bay of Bengal. My journey is half way done.Bad experiences? Not even a puncture. However the heat is intense. Oven-baked fields wait for the monsoon rains. I race north up the east coast to Kolkata, but with Sikkim and Assam as my goal, leave at dawn and ride all day. Kodaikanal, Mamallapuram and Puri are way stations, and I pause for a day to explore Orissa \u2013 the byways of its littoral, the emerald paddies, creeks and ponds carpeted with lilies and water hyacinth where herons, white egrets and water buffalo stand. Straw-roofed huts are reflected in a temple's water tank.In Kolkata I am banned, to the embarrassment of my Indian hosts, from the bar and dining room of the city's most prestigious social club. My social sin? Wearing an Indian shirt (collarless). Poverty in Kolkata may be marginally more obscene than in Mumbai or Delhi \u2013 yet this is a city to love for the energy and humour and generosity of the people. My guide to the city is Indian food writer Colonel Rajan Bali. We set out for lunch or dinner, the colonel in the lead, each of his first few strides accompanied by a clap of his hands. Such were the games-master encouragements of my youth: come on chaps \u2026So onward and upward to Sikkim, land of spring where rhododendrons and primulas paint high valleys and the magic peaks of Mount Kanchendzonga shimmer in sunshine. Sikkim's women own themselves and wave and shout and laugh as I pass. Brightly dressed pickers speckle tea gardens. Wisps of cloud curl through pine forest. I ride at dawn and pray beside Khecheopalri Lake, follow friends in their jeep up a military road from Lachung to the snow line: these are my memories. By this stage I have met many people, I am befriended by all ages, my own is irrelevant, and I have found it is an expanding friendship that directs me onward. You must visit so and so. They're expecting you.So it is in Assam. Here I discover the tranquillity of the raja's 19th-century compound in the small town of Abhayapuri; the gateway town of Guwahati, one of India's fastest growing cities; and the Kaziranga national park, where black rhino waddle in baggy bloomers of armour plate. All I need is a last hurrah ...I am warned that the road over the mountains to Tawang in Arunachal Pradesh is bad. I can handle it. The road climbs first through clouded forest, visibility 15 metres. I halt at a tiny tin-shack teahouse. Two inebriated young tribal police with big guns demand a kiss. They give me a peck on the cheek and I flee. After a night's sleep at Dirang I face the Sela Pass, the high route into the Tawang valley, once part of Tibet. Bits of road have fallen down the mountain. Bits of mountain have fallen on the road. Wind blasts a chilling cold off the snow peaks. Old fool, frightened of heights, don't look down. I reach the top at 4,180m and am too exhausted to dismount. Yet the descent is glorious, the climate changing from late winter through spring to early summer as I wind my way down. A last climb to Tawang town and clouds close in. Thankfully there are places to stay, interesting food to eat, the monastery to visit. Rain falls continuously for five days, stretches of road turn to deep liquid mud. The bike has no chance here. A 4x4 pickup is the only solution. After a final dinner with much beer with the military commandant on Assam's border, two soldiers escort me to bed and my journey is done.What have I learned? That I am no longer a teenager. But what the heck? Go for it, grandpa. Go for it. This is living. I'm already back on the road \u2026 I have just started a trip through California and Mexico and I'm planning to be in Nigeria in February for my 78th.Check out Simon Gandolfi's travels at simongandolfi.com. See Simon's video of his India trip above.Blazing Trails Tours (01902 894009, blazingtrailstours.com) has two-week motorbike holidays to various regions of India, including Rajasthan, Goa, Kerala and the Himalayas. Prices range from \u00a31,499 to \u00a32,650 and include bike (usually a 350cc Enfield), mechanical back-up, medical and luggage-carrying support and B&B accommodation but not flights. In Delhi, Lalli Motorbike Exports (+91 11 2875 0869, lallisingh.com) rents 500cc Royal Enfields from around \u00a3235 per month.", "tags": ["India holidays", "Road trips", "Travel"], "title": "Round India by motorbike"},{"date": "2010-09-07T09:05:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The Indian \"homestay\" experience has grown from strength to strength since the idea first emerged in Kerala, a decade or so ago. Now there are homestay tours and specialist agencies for the many hospitable families offering modestly priced accommodation in a variety of homes from city apartments to plantation houses. The majority are in the far north or the far south (Delhi, Rajasthan, Kerala), but the idea is spreading into other states. As a general rule, they are middle-class houses, largely run by the active retired professionals, though there are younger, or poorer, families among homestay hosts. Website galleries proudly feature pictures of \"European-style toilets\"; they often promise safe drinking water, station and airport pick-ups, drinks in the lounge among the family portraits. Some simply offer homely bed and breakfast while others veer towards the boutique hotel (which is reflected in the price), but the ones to look for are those that invite you to join the family, sample home-cooked regional food and explore the suburbs, hilltops and backwaters of those untouristy corners of India you might never otherwise see.The former home of the Maharajah of Sirohi, this mansion of a townhouse is close to Civil Lines, in the thick of Old Delhi, but only two metro stops from Chandni Chowk (three from Connaught Circus). Beyond the gates, a private drive leads up to a grand entrance. It's big on ornate fireplaces, chandeliers, carved hardwood, bits of Hindu temple (the owner, the amiable Ashok Sahdev, collects antiques). For guests there's a choice of two standard doubles and two suites, all with bathrooms, air-con and cable TV, plus the run of the communal rooms - including a cocktail lounge with bar where you can chat over G&Ts. They serve up sit-down meals, buffets, barbecues, picnics, canap\u00e9s and even room service. And a big plus is the lovely urban garden \u2013 a world away from the mayhem of the Indian capital.\u2022 From \u00a347 a night; homeandhospitality.co.uk.Vikram is a retired air force officer; Paaro is descended from the Rajput aristocracy and she has her own clothing company (kaftans and vegetable-dyed cottons). Their home is a suburban villa to the west of Jaipur; a series of airy, open-plan living spaces arranged around a flower-filled atrium; marble floors, a roof terrace, antique-modern furnishings, two guest bedrooms with a private lounge and a self-contained cottage in the garden. Paaro can organise cookery demonstrations, Hindi lessons, yoga classes, or a visit to her clothing factory. Or you can just hang out in the garden on lawns dotted with fruit trees (papaya, pomegranate, custard apple) and organise your next outing (the Ranawats have family all over Rajasthan).\u2022 From \u00a326 a night; homeandhospitality.co.uk.Set in a quiet residential area, the house has a bowling-green lawn, geraniums spilling out of window boxes and views of the Shivalik hills - this city in the Doon Valley is the capital of Uttarakhand and makes a handy stopover en route from Delhi to the Himalayan National Park. After settling into your homely room, Mr Mehra, a retired wool processing specialist, wheels out the drinks trolley (whisky, anyone?), while his wife hands around her apparently famous snacks (try the tandoori chicken or the lamb brain kebabs). From the balcony you can see the misty forests of Mussoorie - the so-called Queen of hill stations. You can walk there in three hours or, for a modest fee, borrow the Mehras' car and driver.\u2022 From \u00a327 a night; homeandhospitality.co.uk.This smart city bolthole in south Delhi's Defence Colony is home to well-travelled couple Arun and Suman Khanna (the Colonel takes its name from Arun's Indian army father). Three bright guest rooms offer clean-cut decor and all mod-cons (marble bathrooms, Wi-Fi, air-con, cable TV and hospitality trays). There are balconies to sit out on, views of the city, staff to look after you (all meals are provided on request), plus the help and hospitality of your charming hosts (Arun is particularly up on round-Delhi cycling routes). Shops, markets, restaurants and the Humayun tomb, a World Heritage site, are all within walking distance.\u2022 From \u00a357 a night; colonelsretreat.com (also mahindrahomestays.com).Jamshed and Ayesha Madon's lovely Goan house sits in lush tropical gardens in a quiet hamlet roughly halfway between the market town of Mapusa and Baga beach. Jamshed, an ex-merchant mariner, and Ayesha, a former journalist, built the traditional-style house after moving south from Mumbai to start a new life. They now run a successful Italian restaurant, J&A's in Baga; they have a young son, eight-year-old Zal, a family of dogs and cats and three cool, spacious guest rooms - two in the house and one in a self-contained cottage in the garden. All are furnished with snazzy modern bathrooms and antique beds. Relax on the verandah or the sala (the Madons' living room), enjoy simple, homemade lunches such as curries, rice and salads, help yourself to a drink from the honesty bar, or head for the beach (a 15-minute drive). A swimming pool is planned for later this year.\u2022 From \u00a360 a night; capellagoa.com.This isn't one homestay, but a whole community of them \u2013 a choice of 14 in all, spread across six high-altitude villages all in the isolated Pin Valley, set against the frosted peaks of the Himalayas (Kibber, one of the world's highest villages, stands 4,500m above sea level). As homestays go, these mud-and-brick dwellings are a bit rougher than most (instead of bathrooms you get buckets of hot water, and the toilets are composting squats) but the guest rooms \u2013 one a household - are clean, and colourful, furnished with rugs and folksy fabrics. Aside from home-cooked Spitian cuisine (momos perhaps, or noodle soup), you get rugged scenery, invigorating mountain air, smiling faces and the odd yak safari. Not only will you step into a way of life in this Bhuddist community that hasn't really changed for centuries, but you will also help to keep it going.\u2022 Rooms from \u00a335 a night, including meals and a guide; mahindrahomestays.com.At Kuttanad, a tranquil corner of the Keralan backwaters, this \"heritage homestay\" is the 150-year-old home of a Syrian Christian family, Chackochan Edayady (\"Mr Chacko\") and his wife Salimma. Although both are academics (he is a professor of pharmacy; she teaches chemistry), they still run the family farm, a few watery acres of paddy and coconut palms just off the River Pampa. A traditional Keralan granary house (carved wood, a wraparound verandah, a pagoda-like tiled roof), provides three guest rooms (two are air-conditioned); and the food is fresh, homely and plentiful. Visit the magnificent St Mary's Forane church at Pulinconnoo, meet the locals, potter about in a country boat, or take a backwater trip to, say, Alappuzha (12 miles away).From a \u00a3100 a double, full board; nelpura.com, +91 477 2702336 (also keralaconnections.co.uk, +44 (0)1892 724913).In the heart of rubber country (between the hot coastal plains and the high tea gardens of the Western Ghats), George and Anju Abraham's 1950s house looks more Florida than Kerala - all Art Deco curves and decks of concrete \u2013 but what it offers is a taste of traditional Indian plantation life. Set in a tropical garden, peeking at the Mundakayam Valley through slender rubber trees, the bungalow has two large, simply furnished guest rooms, whirling ceiling fans, wicker chairs on shaded verandahs. George's family has farmed here for generations and he's keen to show you around: the Pullakaya River, the village rubber factory, Mundakayam's colonial-era planters' club. Dine en famille, while Anju bustles in and out with plate after plate of wonderful food: Appams with mild vegetable stew, fish moily, meat-ball curry, banana fry, fresh passion fruit juice (home grown). You can nip into the kitchen and see how it's done.\u2022 From \u00a359 a night; mahindrahomestays.com, +44 (0)203 140 8422 or stayhomz.com/evergreen.htm, +91 48 28 28431.In the Wayanad District, a belt of rainforest in the northern Keralan highlands, Glenora is one of those homestays for whom success has meant a push upmarket - but that doesn't dim the quality of the experience. Home to the hospitable Rajagopal family, and registered as a \"farm tourism provider\", the house is set in 90 acres of coffee, pepper, betel nut, lime, ginger, guava and avocado among other fruit and spices. As well as three light, well-furnished rooms in the house, there are two new cottages on stilts (each of the latter has two balconies overlooking the plantation \u2013 birds, monkeys, foliage and not another house in sight). Activities include trekking, jeep safaris, badminton and trips to Sunrise Valley (less than a mile away), Meenmutty Falls or the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary.\u2022 B&B from \u00a345 a night; glenorahomestay.com, +91 4936 217550/217450 (also mahindrahomestays.com).In the Sindhudurg region of southern Maharashtra, this rustic, adobe-style home offers two guest rooms opening on to a wide verandah that overlooks Ammu and Ashish Padgaonkar's farm - 12 acres of cashews, pineapples and coconut palms. It's off the beaten track, a bit of real India, but they offer hot water, proper loos and a great location. To the east is Amboli, the little hill station in the Sahyadri hills, to the west, the beaches of Vengurla - both are less than 20 miles away. Hop on a train at nearby Sawantwadi station (on the mainline Konkan Railway), and you can be in northern Goa in half an hour (the state border is some 10 miles south). Or just stay put; try a local bullock-cart ride, kcik back in a Nandan Farms hammock or enjoy Ammu's excellent cooking (fried mackerel, say, or Malvani-style chicken curry).\u2022 Doubles from around \u00a336 a night, full board; responsibletravel.com.", "tags": ["India holidays", "Hotels", "Asia", "Travel", "Kerala holidays", "Delhi holidays", "Goa holidays", "Top 10s"], "title": "Ten top homestays in India"},{"date": "2010-07-16T12:49:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "It may look like a melted British Rail sign but it's hoped that a new symbol for the Indian rupee will signal India's growing economic strength \u2011 and it will be coming soon to a keyboard near you.The winning design was selected by the Indian cabinet yesterday from a shortlist of five following a national competition.Measures are already afoot to have the rupee sign declared a computer standard, meaning it could join currencies such as the pound, dollar, euro and yen on keyboards within two years.\"The distinct symbol denotes the robustness of the Indian economy,\" India's information minister, Ambika Soni, said.References to sums in rupees currently involve spelling out the word (as is the case in the Guardian's style guide) or giving it the abbreviation Rs or INRs to distinguish it from other Asian countries that use rupees or variations thereof.\"Once accepted, it will stand clear from the clutter of currencies that call themselves rupee or the rupiah,\" India's Telegraph reported.The winning symbol was the work of Udaya Kumar, a lecture in design at the Indian Institute of Technology in Mumbai. Speaking to the Indian news website Rediff.com he said: \"My design is based on the tricolour, with two lines at the top and white space in between. I wanted the symbol for the rupee to represent the Indian flag. It is a perfect blend of Indian and Roman letters: a capital 'R' and Devanagari 'ra' which represents rupiya, to appeal to international audiences and Indian audiences.\"Michael Johnson, a director at the award-winning London-based design consultancy johnson banks, said the new symbol fitted with other currency signs but lacked imagination.\"I think it's a B or B plus. Most currency symbols follow an established route now \u2011 E for euro, Y for yen, now R for rupee. You could argue that a dynamic emerging economy could have gone for something more unusual and got away with it \u2011 I think in the end conservative voices prevailed.\"", "tags": ["India", "World news", "Currencies"], "title": "India unveils new rupee symbol"},{"date": "2010-09-17T23:05:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "This is a confession. I've been at it again \u2013 travelling, and on a motorcycle. Though only a small one, it feels quite sinful.I am 77. I should know better, grow up, act my age, potter sedately round a golf course in an electric buggy. But, no, I choose to spend six months exploring the Indian subcontinent.My wife, of course, is pleased to have me out of the house. Men, when they don't work five days a week, occupy too much space. We have irritating habits \u2013 not putting the seat back down, leaving dirty socks and underpants on the floor, failing to put the milk and butter back in the refrigerator.What do my sons think? The older two, in their 40s, merely shrug; Dad's acting true to form. But Joshua and Jedediah are university age. Ancient Dad playing Che Guevara is an embarrassment. Their gap-year friends message me: \"Hi, Simon, have you left yet? We're in the Andaman Islands.\"To which Joshua posts: \"Oh, my God, my 78-year-old dad on Facebook.\"I reply: \"Only 76, please. I will celebrate my 77th birthday in Goa.\"Fellow oldies corner me and ask questions. How are your preparations going? What route will you take?What should I answer? That planning is time ill used, time in which to grow nervous, fearful even, relive two heart attacks suffered 15 years ago in Guatemala's highlands or dwell on a more recent memory of a truck smashing my leg the first day of my ride north from Tierra del Fuego \u2013 which meant five weeks in plaster and having to carry crutches on the bike all the way to New York. So, no, no planning, no wiggling a toe in a swimming pool. Leap is the only way. Pack the bare necessities: six months of heart medication, good shoes for meeting rajas and maharajas (mine are 20-year-old Church's) and wear one of those multi-pocketed waistcoats to avoid mislaying the essentials.I haven't visited India in 40 years. Delhi is a shock. When I was last here only sadhus talked out loud to themselves. Now everyone does it, rich or poor, old or young, all yakking into mobile phones. Fewer cows wander the streets, more cars \u2013 and myriad cab and tuk-tuk drivers practise unmetered highway robbery. Traffic circles and intersections are reminiscent of first world war aerial combat; every pilot picks his own line of attack \u2013 go for the gaps or lose your tail.Am I scared? Yes, obviously.Humid windless winter days shroud the Mogul splendour and Victorian pomposity in a veil of blue exhaust fumes. Wise travellers wear surgical face masks. But oh, the food! I head for the old Muslim quarter beside the Jama Masjid mosque for divine kebabs \u2014 and being an offal lover rejoice at delicately spiced lamb's brain.Forty years have passed since I last sought wisdom from a Sufi teacher at the shrine of Nizamuddin Auliya, the Sufi saint. His son teaches now the same heretical message: God doesn't mind which route you take to him, only that you arrive.South next, to Agra, astride Honda India's latest 125 cafe racer (model name Stunner), fire-engine red and comically unsuitable as the mount for an overweight antique. This is a land of flat dusty fields stretching to a mirage-quivering horizon. Drivers respond neither to law nor logic.Each mud-wall village is a chaotic marketplace, full of handcarts, pedal-bikes, rickshaws, cows, goats, pigs, sheep, the occasional donkey or elephant. I pass men in white dhotis, women in brilliantly coloured saris. Tractors, trucks and buses barge past with sirens blaring where I creep timidly, British interloper guilt-ridden by childhood memories of the Empire. I stop for tea and a crowd converges \u2013 though the bike is of greater interest than the Ancient Brit.Agra's Taj Mahal is a grotesque monument to the male ego: marvel at the wealth and power with which I immortalise my love. I prefer to cross the Yamuna river to a tomb of modest size but of exquisite delicacy, where the parents of Nur Jahan lie side by side, lovers holding hands for eternity. Such tenderness and beauty bring me close to tears. Everywhere I go, people are keen to talk. I fall into conversation in the great courtyard of the Red Fort with the president of a Delhi-based American software corporation. He spends his days facing a computer monitor yet loathes computers. Computers destroy the family, he says. But they are the main link to mine while I'm travelling.At Akbar I visit the red sandstone imperial complex of Fatehpur Sikri . \"Do you find this beautiful?\" demands a small aggressive Indian gentleman as I admire the intricate carvings. \"No, no, this is not beautiful,\" he says. \"Have you seen Hampton Court? There is beauty.\" So he continues until, in desperation, I ask of his companion, a tall younger man in short sleeves and trainers: \"Do you have to listen to this?\"\"Listen? I've been listening for six weeks. He's my dad,\" he replies, accent indelibly marked by an English public school and the home counties.Jaipur, rose city of Rajasthan, is hosting a literary festival when I arrive. Famous writers bask in five-star luxury at the maharajah's palace; bulge-bellied Indian movie actors glide self-importantly among their worshipers; meanwhile the poor sleep and breed and cook and defecate on the sidewalk.In Jodhpur I admire the art deco splendour of the Umaid Bhawan Palace \u2013 347 rooms, 15 years in the building, the charitable maharajah's make-work project for his starving subjects. Why not a city sewage system?Pushkar is a haven for pony-tailed relics of the psychedelic 1970s still searching for enlightenment in a cloud of smoke. Staff and guests sit glaze-eyed in the hotel garden. Stars sparkle. The holy lake is empty.Gazelle gaze as I stop beneath a tree on the desert road to Jaisalmer. Here, below the golden walls of the fort, I watch two Sikh brothers rebuild a 1961 Royal Enfield Bullet motorbike while a craftsman tailors me a bag in camel hide. Keep the myriad fortresses and palaces; this is the Rajasthan I love: rich gummy scents of the desert, dunes trembling in the heat, the lifted upper lip of a camel as it nibbles the few thin green leaves on a thorn tree; scrawny goats perched on a branch. I halt in a village and loll on a string bed in the shade, sipping sweet milk tea.Leaving the desert aridity behind, I head south to Mumbai and then to Goa, the winter goal of our 1960s overland trips. This is a green land of forested hills, milk-coffee rivers, coconut palm and rice paddy. Immense rain trees offer shade. The sea perfumes the air with salt and iodine. Menus feature fresh fish and prawns. I was warned Goa had been ruined. But not for me, nor for the thousands of tourists who bask in the sun. The sand is as golden, Goans as welcoming. The bungalow I rented on Calangute 40 years ago has become a beach bar. I luxuriate at the Taj Hotel's cliff-top resort. A band plays me awake and the front desk manager calls, \"Happy 77th birthday, grandfather. Up you get. We're going to give you a wonderful day.\"Then I'm heading south through Kerala's magical canals and lagoons to the very tip of India at Kanyakumari, Tamil Nadu, to go paddling at sunset, one foot in the Indian Ocean, one in the Bay of Bengal. My journey is half way done.Bad experiences? Not even a puncture. However the heat is intense. Oven-baked fields wait for the monsoon rains. I race north up the east coast to Kolkata, but with Sikkim and Assam as my goal, leave at dawn and ride all day. Kodaikanal, Mamallapuram and Puri are way stations, and I pause for a day to explore Orissa \u2013 the byways of its littoral, the emerald paddies, creeks and ponds carpeted with lilies and water hyacinth where herons, white egrets and water buffalo stand. Straw-roofed huts are reflected in a temple's water tank.In Kolkata I am banned, to the embarrassment of my Indian hosts, from the bar and dining room of the city's most prestigious social club. My social sin? Wearing an Indian shirt (collarless). Poverty in Kolkata may be marginally more obscene than in Mumbai or Delhi \u2013 yet this is a city to love for the energy and humour and generosity of the people. My guide to the city is Indian food writer Colonel Rajan Bali. We set out for lunch or dinner, the colonel in the lead, each of his first few strides accompanied by a clap of his hands. Such were the games-master encouragements of my youth: come on chaps \u2026So onward and upward to Sikkim, land of spring where rhododendrons and primulas paint high valleys and the magic peaks of Mount Kanchendzonga shimmer in sunshine. Sikkim's women own themselves and wave and shout and laugh as I pass. Brightly dressed pickers speckle tea gardens. Wisps of cloud curl through pine forest. I ride at dawn and pray beside Khecheopalri Lake, follow friends in their jeep up a military road from Lachung to the snow line: these are my memories. By this stage I have met many people, I am befriended by all ages, my own is irrelevant, and I have found it is an expanding friendship that directs me onward. You must visit so and so. They're expecting you.So it is in Assam. Here I discover the tranquillity of the raja's 19th-century compound in the small town of Abhayapuri; the gateway town of Guwahati, one of India's fastest growing cities; and the Kaziranga national park, where black rhino waddle in baggy bloomers of armour plate. All I need is a last hurrah ...I am warned that the road over the mountains to Tawang in Arunachal Pradesh is bad. I can handle it. The road climbs first through clouded forest, visibility 15 metres. I halt at a tiny tin-shack teahouse. Two inebriated young tribal police with big guns demand a kiss. They give me a peck on the cheek and I flee. After a night's sleep at Dirang I face the Sela Pass, the high route into the Tawang valley, once part of Tibet. Bits of road have fallen down the mountain. Bits of mountain have fallen on the road. Wind blasts a chilling cold off the snow peaks. Old fool, frightened of heights, don't look down. I reach the top at 4,180m and am too exhausted to dismount. Yet the descent is glorious, the climate changing from late winter through spring to early summer as I wind my way down. A last climb to Tawang town and clouds close in. Thankfully there are places to stay, interesting food to eat, the monastery to visit. Rain falls continuously for five days, stretches of road turn to deep liquid mud. The bike has no chance here. A 4x4 pickup is the only solution. After a final dinner with much beer with the military commandant on Assam's border, two soldiers escort me to bed and my journey is done.What have I learned? That I am no longer a teenager. But what the heck? Go for it, grandpa. Go for it. This is living. I'm already back on the road \u2026 I have just started a trip through California and Mexico and I'm planning to be in Nigeria in February for my 78th.Check out Simon Gandolfi's travels at simongandolfi.com. See Simon's video of his India trip above.Blazing Trails Tours (01902 894009, blazingtrailstours.com) has two-week motorbike holidays to various regions of India, including Rajasthan, Goa, Kerala and the Himalayas. Prices range from \u00a31,499 to \u00a32,650 and include bike (usually a 350cc Enfield), mechanical back-up, medical and luggage-carrying support and B&B accommodation but not flights. In Delhi, Lalli Motorbike Exports (+91 11 2875 0869, lallisingh.com) rents 500cc Royal Enfields from around \u00a3235 per month.", "tags": ["India holidays", "Road trips", "Travel"], "title": "Round India by motorbike"},{"date": "2010-09-07T09:05:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The Indian \"homestay\" experience has grown from strength to strength since the idea first emerged in Kerala, a decade or so ago. Now there are homestay tours and specialist agencies for the many hospitable families offering modestly priced accommodation in a variety of homes from city apartments to plantation houses. The majority are in the far north or the far south (Delhi, Rajasthan, Kerala), but the idea is spreading into other states. As a general rule, they are middle-class houses, largely run by the active retired professionals, though there are younger, or poorer, families among homestay hosts. Website galleries proudly feature pictures of \"European-style toilets\"; they often promise safe drinking water, station and airport pick-ups, drinks in the lounge among the family portraits. Some simply offer homely bed and breakfast while others veer towards the boutique hotel (which is reflected in the price), but the ones to look for are those that invite you to join the family, sample home-cooked regional food and explore the suburbs, hilltops and backwaters of those untouristy corners of India you might never otherwise see.The former home of the Maharajah of Sirohi, this mansion of a townhouse is close to Civil Lines, in the thick of Old Delhi, but only two metro stops from Chandni Chowk (three from Connaught Circus). Beyond the gates, a private drive leads up to a grand entrance. It's big on ornate fireplaces, chandeliers, carved hardwood, bits of Hindu temple (the owner, the amiable Ashok Sahdev, collects antiques). For guests there's a choice of two standard doubles and two suites, all with bathrooms, air-con and cable TV, plus the run of the communal rooms - including a cocktail lounge with bar where you can chat over G&Ts. They serve up sit-down meals, buffets, barbecues, picnics, canap\u00e9s and even room service. And a big plus is the lovely urban garden \u2013 a world away from the mayhem of the Indian capital.\u2022 From \u00a347 a night; homeandhospitality.co.uk.Vikram is a retired air force officer; Paaro is descended from the Rajput aristocracy and she has her own clothing company (kaftans and vegetable-dyed cottons). Their home is a suburban villa to the west of Jaipur; a series of airy, open-plan living spaces arranged around a flower-filled atrium; marble floors, a roof terrace, antique-modern furnishings, two guest bedrooms with a private lounge and a self-contained cottage in the garden. Paaro can organise cookery demonstrations, Hindi lessons, yoga classes, or a visit to her clothing factory. Or you can just hang out in the garden on lawns dotted with fruit trees (papaya, pomegranate, custard apple) and organise your next outing (the Ranawats have family all over Rajasthan).\u2022 From \u00a326 a night; homeandhospitality.co.uk.Set in a quiet residential area, the house has a bowling-green lawn, geraniums spilling out of window boxes and views of the Shivalik hills - this city in the Doon Valley is the capital of Uttarakhand and makes a handy stopover en route from Delhi to the Himalayan National Park. After settling into your homely room, Mr Mehra, a retired wool processing specialist, wheels out the drinks trolley (whisky, anyone?), while his wife hands around her apparently famous snacks (try the tandoori chicken or the lamb brain kebabs). From the balcony you can see the misty forests of Mussoorie - the so-called Queen of hill stations. You can walk there in three hours or, for a modest fee, borrow the Mehras' car and driver.\u2022 From \u00a327 a night; homeandhospitality.co.uk.This smart city bolthole in south Delhi's Defence Colony is home to well-travelled couple Arun and Suman Khanna (the Colonel takes its name from Arun's Indian army father). Three bright guest rooms offer clean-cut decor and all mod-cons (marble bathrooms, Wi-Fi, air-con, cable TV and hospitality trays). There are balconies to sit out on, views of the city, staff to look after you (all meals are provided on request), plus the help and hospitality of your charming hosts (Arun is particularly up on round-Delhi cycling routes). Shops, markets, restaurants and the Humayun tomb, a World Heritage site, are all within walking distance.\u2022 From \u00a357 a night; colonelsretreat.com (also mahindrahomestays.com).Jamshed and Ayesha Madon's lovely Goan house sits in lush tropical gardens in a quiet hamlet roughly halfway between the market town of Mapusa and Baga beach. Jamshed, an ex-merchant mariner, and Ayesha, a former journalist, built the traditional-style house after moving south from Mumbai to start a new life. They now run a successful Italian restaurant, J&A's in Baga; they have a young son, eight-year-old Zal, a family of dogs and cats and three cool, spacious guest rooms - two in the house and one in a self-contained cottage in the garden. All are furnished with snazzy modern bathrooms and antique beds. Relax on the verandah or the sala (the Madons' living room), enjoy simple, homemade lunches such as curries, rice and salads, help yourself to a drink from the honesty bar, or head for the beach (a 15-minute drive). A swimming pool is planned for later this year.\u2022 From \u00a360 a night; capellagoa.com.This isn't one homestay, but a whole community of them \u2013 a choice of 14 in all, spread across six high-altitude villages all in the isolated Pin Valley, set against the frosted peaks of the Himalayas (Kibber, one of the world's highest villages, stands 4,500m above sea level). As homestays go, these mud-and-brick dwellings are a bit rougher than most (instead of bathrooms you get buckets of hot water, and the toilets are composting squats) but the guest rooms \u2013 one a household - are clean, and colourful, furnished with rugs and folksy fabrics. Aside from home-cooked Spitian cuisine (momos perhaps, or noodle soup), you get rugged scenery, invigorating mountain air, smiling faces and the odd yak safari. Not only will you step into a way of life in this Bhuddist community that hasn't really changed for centuries, but you will also help to keep it going.\u2022 Rooms from \u00a335 a night, including meals and a guide; mahindrahomestays.com.At Kuttanad, a tranquil corner of the Keralan backwaters, this \"heritage homestay\" is the 150-year-old home of a Syrian Christian family, Chackochan Edayady (\"Mr Chacko\") and his wife Salimma. Although both are academics (he is a professor of pharmacy; she teaches chemistry), they still run the family farm, a few watery acres of paddy and coconut palms just off the River Pampa. A traditional Keralan granary house (carved wood, a wraparound verandah, a pagoda-like tiled roof), provides three guest rooms (two are air-conditioned); and the food is fresh, homely and plentiful. Visit the magnificent St Mary's Forane church at Pulinconnoo, meet the locals, potter about in a country boat, or take a backwater trip to, say, Alappuzha (12 miles away).From a \u00a3100 a double, full board; nelpura.com, +91 477 2702336 (also keralaconnections.co.uk, +44 (0)1892 724913).In the heart of rubber country (between the hot coastal plains and the high tea gardens of the Western Ghats), George and Anju Abraham's 1950s house looks more Florida than Kerala - all Art Deco curves and decks of concrete \u2013 but what it offers is a taste of traditional Indian plantation life. Set in a tropical garden, peeking at the Mundakayam Valley through slender rubber trees, the bungalow has two large, simply furnished guest rooms, whirling ceiling fans, wicker chairs on shaded verandahs. George's family has farmed here for generations and he's keen to show you around: the Pullakaya River, the village rubber factory, Mundakayam's colonial-era planters' club. Dine en famille, while Anju bustles in and out with plate after plate of wonderful food: Appams with mild vegetable stew, fish moily, meat-ball curry, banana fry, fresh passion fruit juice (home grown). You can nip into the kitchen and see how it's done.\u2022 From \u00a359 a night; mahindrahomestays.com, +44 (0)203 140 8422 or stayhomz.com/evergreen.htm, +91 48 28 28431.In the Wayanad District, a belt of rainforest in the northern Keralan highlands, Glenora is one of those homestays for whom success has meant a push upmarket - but that doesn't dim the quality of the experience. Home to the hospitable Rajagopal family, and registered as a \"farm tourism provider\", the house is set in 90 acres of coffee, pepper, betel nut, lime, ginger, guava and avocado among other fruit and spices. As well as three light, well-furnished rooms in the house, there are two new cottages on stilts (each of the latter has two balconies overlooking the plantation \u2013 birds, monkeys, foliage and not another house in sight). Activities include trekking, jeep safaris, badminton and trips to Sunrise Valley (less than a mile away), Meenmutty Falls or the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary.\u2022 B&B from \u00a345 a night; glenorahomestay.com, +91 4936 217550/217450 (also mahindrahomestays.com).In the Sindhudurg region of southern Maharashtra, this rustic, adobe-style home offers two guest rooms opening on to a wide verandah that overlooks Ammu and Ashish Padgaonkar's farm - 12 acres of cashews, pineapples and coconut palms. It's off the beaten track, a bit of real India, but they offer hot water, proper loos and a great location. To the east is Amboli, the little hill station in the Sahyadri hills, to the west, the beaches of Vengurla - both are less than 20 miles away. Hop on a train at nearby Sawantwadi station (on the mainline Konkan Railway), and you can be in northern Goa in half an hour (the state border is some 10 miles south). Or just stay put; try a local bullock-cart ride, kcik back in a Nandan Farms hammock or enjoy Ammu's excellent cooking (fried mackerel, say, or Malvani-style chicken curry).\u2022 Doubles from around \u00a336 a night, full board; responsibletravel.com.", "tags": ["India holidays", "Hotels", "Asia", "Travel", "Kerala holidays", "Delhi holidays", "Goa holidays", "Top 10s"], "title": "Ten top homestays in India"},{"date": "2010-07-16T12:49:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "It may look like a melted British Rail sign but it's hoped that a new symbol for the Indian rupee will signal India's growing economic strength \u2011 and it will be coming soon to a keyboard near you.The winning design was selected by the Indian cabinet yesterday from a shortlist of five following a national competition.Measures are already afoot to have the rupee sign declared a computer standard, meaning it could join currencies such as the pound, dollar, euro and yen on keyboards within two years.\"The distinct symbol denotes the robustness of the Indian economy,\" India's information minister, Ambika Soni, said.References to sums in rupees currently involve spelling out the word (as is the case in the Guardian's style guide) or giving it the abbreviation Rs or INRs to distinguish it from other Asian countries that use rupees or variations thereof.\"Once accepted, it will stand clear from the clutter of currencies that call themselves rupee or the rupiah,\" India's Telegraph reported.The winning symbol was the work of Udaya Kumar, a lecture in design at the Indian Institute of Technology in Mumbai. Speaking to the Indian news website Rediff.com he said: \"My design is based on the tricolour, with two lines at the top and white space in between. I wanted the symbol for the rupee to represent the Indian flag. It is a perfect blend of Indian and Roman letters: a capital 'R' and Devanagari 'ra' which represents rupiya, to appeal to international audiences and Indian audiences.\"Michael Johnson, a director at the award-winning London-based design consultancy johnson banks, said the new symbol fitted with other currency signs but lacked imagination.\"I think it's a B or B plus. Most currency symbols follow an established route now \u2011 E for euro, Y for yen, now R for rupee. You could argue that a dynamic emerging economy could have gone for something more unusual and got away with it \u2011 I think in the end conservative voices prevailed.\"", "tags": ["India", "World news", "Currencies"], "title": "India unveils new rupee symbol"},{"date": "2010-07-16T06:25:10Z", "country": "india", "content": "The Times's India correspondent, Jeremy Page, has joined the exodus from the newspaper, triggering a reshuffle at its foreign desk.Sources on the paper have confirmed that Page will leave prior to what had been a planned move to the role of China correspondent. According to his colleagues he has landed a job at the Wall Street Journal.The Middle East correspondent, James Hider, is being lined up for the post of India correspondent, according to Times sources. The China correspondent, Jane McCartney, is returning from the country soon to join the foreign desk. It is not clear who will replace her in Beijing.The foreign desk changes come as the Times goes through a round of about 20 compulsory redundancies, on top of 40 voluntary departures. About 10 new staff will also be hired to fill posts vacated by some of those taking voluntary redundancy.James Harding, the Times editor, recently warned the paper's staff that it was making \"unsustainable\" losses.Neither Page nor Hider had responded to requests for comment from MediaGuardian.co.uk.A Times spokeswoman was unavailable to comment at the time of publication.\u2022 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.\u2022 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".", "tags": ["The Times", "National newspapers", "Newspapers", "Newspapers & magazines", "Media downturn", "Media"], "title": "India correspondent leaves the Times"},{"date": "2010-09-17T23:05:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "This is a confession. I've been at it again \u2013 travelling, and on a motorcycle. Though only a small one, it feels quite sinful.I am 77. I should know better, grow up, act my age, potter sedately round a golf course in an electric buggy. But, no, I choose to spend six months exploring the Indian subcontinent.My wife, of course, is pleased to have me out of the house. Men, when they don't work five days a week, occupy too much space. We have irritating habits \u2013 not putting the seat back down, leaving dirty socks and underpants on the floor, failing to put the milk and butter back in the refrigerator.What do my sons think? The older two, in their 40s, merely shrug; Dad's acting true to form. But Joshua and Jedediah are university age. Ancient Dad playing Che Guevara is an embarrassment. Their gap-year friends message me: \"Hi, Simon, have you left yet? We're in the Andaman Islands.\"To which Joshua posts: \"Oh, my God, my 78-year-old dad on Facebook.\"I reply: \"Only 76, please. I will celebrate my 77th birthday in Goa.\"Fellow oldies corner me and ask questions. How are your preparations going? What route will you take?What should I answer? That planning is time ill used, time in which to grow nervous, fearful even, relive two heart attacks suffered 15 years ago in Guatemala's highlands or dwell on a more recent memory of a truck smashing my leg the first day of my ride north from Tierra del Fuego \u2013 which meant five weeks in plaster and having to carry crutches on the bike all the way to New York. So, no, no planning, no wiggling a toe in a swimming pool. Leap is the only way. Pack the bare necessities: six months of heart medication, good shoes for meeting rajas and maharajas (mine are 20-year-old Church's) and wear one of those multi-pocketed waistcoats to avoid mislaying the essentials.I haven't visited India in 40 years. Delhi is a shock. When I was last here only sadhus talked out loud to themselves. Now everyone does it, rich or poor, old or young, all yakking into mobile phones. Fewer cows wander the streets, more cars \u2013 and myriad cab and tuk-tuk drivers practise unmetered highway robbery. Traffic circles and intersections are reminiscent of first world war aerial combat; every pilot picks his own line of attack \u2013 go for the gaps or lose your tail.Am I scared? Yes, obviously.Humid windless winter days shroud the Mogul splendour and Victorian pomposity in a veil of blue exhaust fumes. Wise travellers wear surgical face masks. But oh, the food! I head for the old Muslim quarter beside the Jama Masjid mosque for divine kebabs \u2014 and being an offal lover rejoice at delicately spiced lamb's brain.Forty years have passed since I last sought wisdom from a Sufi teacher at the shrine of Nizamuddin Auliya, the Sufi saint. His son teaches now the same heretical message: God doesn't mind which route you take to him, only that you arrive.South next, to Agra, astride Honda India's latest 125 cafe racer (model name Stunner), fire-engine red and comically unsuitable as the mount for an overweight antique. This is a land of flat dusty fields stretching to a mirage-quivering horizon. Drivers respond neither to law nor logic.Each mud-wall village is a chaotic marketplace, full of handcarts, pedal-bikes, rickshaws, cows, goats, pigs, sheep, the occasional donkey or elephant. I pass men in white dhotis, women in brilliantly coloured saris. Tractors, trucks and buses barge past with sirens blaring where I creep timidly, British interloper guilt-ridden by childhood memories of the Empire. I stop for tea and a crowd converges \u2013 though the bike is of greater interest than the Ancient Brit.Agra's Taj Mahal is a grotesque monument to the male ego: marvel at the wealth and power with which I immortalise my love. I prefer to cross the Yamuna river to a tomb of modest size but of exquisite delicacy, where the parents of Nur Jahan lie side by side, lovers holding hands for eternity. Such tenderness and beauty bring me close to tears. Everywhere I go, people are keen to talk. I fall into conversation in the great courtyard of the Red Fort with the president of a Delhi-based American software corporation. He spends his days facing a computer monitor yet loathes computers. Computers destroy the family, he says. But they are the main link to mine while I'm travelling.At Akbar I visit the red sandstone imperial complex of Fatehpur Sikri . \"Do you find this beautiful?\" demands a small aggressive Indian gentleman as I admire the intricate carvings. \"No, no, this is not beautiful,\" he says. \"Have you seen Hampton Court? There is beauty.\" So he continues until, in desperation, I ask of his companion, a tall younger man in short sleeves and trainers: \"Do you have to listen to this?\"\"Listen? I've been listening for six weeks. He's my dad,\" he replies, accent indelibly marked by an English public school and the home counties.Jaipur, rose city of Rajasthan, is hosting a literary festival when I arrive. Famous writers bask in five-star luxury at the maharajah's palace; bulge-bellied Indian movie actors glide self-importantly among their worshipers; meanwhile the poor sleep and breed and cook and defecate on the sidewalk.In Jodhpur I admire the art deco splendour of the Umaid Bhawan Palace \u2013 347 rooms, 15 years in the building, the charitable maharajah's make-work project for his starving subjects. Why not a city sewage system?Pushkar is a haven for pony-tailed relics of the psychedelic 1970s still searching for enlightenment in a cloud of smoke. Staff and guests sit glaze-eyed in the hotel garden. Stars sparkle. The holy lake is empty.Gazelle gaze as I stop beneath a tree on the desert road to Jaisalmer. Here, below the golden walls of the fort, I watch two Sikh brothers rebuild a 1961 Royal Enfield Bullet motorbike while a craftsman tailors me a bag in camel hide. Keep the myriad fortresses and palaces; this is the Rajasthan I love: rich gummy scents of the desert, dunes trembling in the heat, the lifted upper lip of a camel as it nibbles the few thin green leaves on a thorn tree; scrawny goats perched on a branch. I halt in a village and loll on a string bed in the shade, sipping sweet milk tea.Leaving the desert aridity behind, I head south to Mumbai and then to Goa, the winter goal of our 1960s overland trips. This is a green land of forested hills, milk-coffee rivers, coconut palm and rice paddy. Immense rain trees offer shade. The sea perfumes the air with salt and iodine. Menus feature fresh fish and prawns. I was warned Goa had been ruined. But not for me, nor for the thousands of tourists who bask in the sun. The sand is as golden, Goans as welcoming. The bungalow I rented on Calangute 40 years ago has become a beach bar. I luxuriate at the Taj Hotel's cliff-top resort. A band plays me awake and the front desk manager calls, \"Happy 77th birthday, grandfather. Up you get. We're going to give you a wonderful day.\"Then I'm heading south through Kerala's magical canals and lagoons to the very tip of India at Kanyakumari, Tamil Nadu, to go paddling at sunset, one foot in the Indian Ocean, one in the Bay of Bengal. My journey is half way done.Bad experiences? Not even a puncture. However the heat is intense. Oven-baked fields wait for the monsoon rains. I race north up the east coast to Kolkata, but with Sikkim and Assam as my goal, leave at dawn and ride all day. Kodaikanal, Mamallapuram and Puri are way stations, and I pause for a day to explore Orissa \u2013 the byways of its littoral, the emerald paddies, creeks and ponds carpeted with lilies and water hyacinth where herons, white egrets and water buffalo stand. Straw-roofed huts are reflected in a temple's water tank.In Kolkata I am banned, to the embarrassment of my Indian hosts, from the bar and dining room of the city's most prestigious social club. My social sin? Wearing an Indian shirt (collarless). Poverty in Kolkata may be marginally more obscene than in Mumbai or Delhi \u2013 yet this is a city to love for the energy and humour and generosity of the people. My guide to the city is Indian food writer Colonel Rajan Bali. We set out for lunch or dinner, the colonel in the lead, each of his first few strides accompanied by a clap of his hands. Such were the games-master encouragements of my youth: come on chaps \u2026So onward and upward to Sikkim, land of spring where rhododendrons and primulas paint high valleys and the magic peaks of Mount Kanchendzonga shimmer in sunshine. Sikkim's women own themselves and wave and shout and laugh as I pass. Brightly dressed pickers speckle tea gardens. Wisps of cloud curl through pine forest. I ride at dawn and pray beside Khecheopalri Lake, follow friends in their jeep up a military road from Lachung to the snow line: these are my memories. By this stage I have met many people, I am befriended by all ages, my own is irrelevant, and I have found it is an expanding friendship that directs me onward. You must visit so and so. They're expecting you.So it is in Assam. Here I discover the tranquillity of the raja's 19th-century compound in the small town of Abhayapuri; the gateway town of Guwahati, one of India's fastest growing cities; and the Kaziranga national park, where black rhino waddle in baggy bloomers of armour plate. All I need is a last hurrah ...I am warned that the road over the mountains to Tawang in Arunachal Pradesh is bad. I can handle it. The road climbs first through clouded forest, visibility 15 metres. I halt at a tiny tin-shack teahouse. Two inebriated young tribal police with big guns demand a kiss. They give me a peck on the cheek and I flee. After a night's sleep at Dirang I face the Sela Pass, the high route into the Tawang valley, once part of Tibet. Bits of road have fallen down the mountain. Bits of mountain have fallen on the road. Wind blasts a chilling cold off the snow peaks. Old fool, frightened of heights, don't look down. I reach the top at 4,180m and am too exhausted to dismount. Yet the descent is glorious, the climate changing from late winter through spring to early summer as I wind my way down. A last climb to Tawang town and clouds close in. Thankfully there are places to stay, interesting food to eat, the monastery to visit. Rain falls continuously for five days, stretches of road turn to deep liquid mud. The bike has no chance here. A 4x4 pickup is the only solution. After a final dinner with much beer with the military commandant on Assam's border, two soldiers escort me to bed and my journey is done.What have I learned? That I am no longer a teenager. But what the heck? Go for it, grandpa. Go for it. This is living. I'm already back on the road \u2026 I have just started a trip through California and Mexico and I'm planning to be in Nigeria in February for my 78th.Check out Simon Gandolfi's travels at simongandolfi.com. See Simon's video of his India trip above.Blazing Trails Tours (01902 894009, blazingtrailstours.com) has two-week motorbike holidays to various regions of India, including Rajasthan, Goa, Kerala and the Himalayas. Prices range from \u00a31,499 to \u00a32,650 and include bike (usually a 350cc Enfield), mechanical back-up, medical and luggage-carrying support and B&B accommodation but not flights. In Delhi, Lalli Motorbike Exports (+91 11 2875 0869, lallisingh.com) rents 500cc Royal Enfields from around \u00a3235 per month.", "tags": ["India holidays", "Road trips", "Travel"], "title": "Round India by motorbike"},{"date": "2010-09-07T09:05:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The Indian \"homestay\" experience has grown from strength to strength since the idea first emerged in Kerala, a decade or so ago. Now there are homestay tours and specialist agencies for the many hospitable families offering modestly priced accommodation in a variety of homes from city apartments to plantation houses. The majority are in the far north or the far south (Delhi, Rajasthan, Kerala), but the idea is spreading into other states. As a general rule, they are middle-class houses, largely run by the active retired professionals, though there are younger, or poorer, families among homestay hosts. Website galleries proudly feature pictures of \"European-style toilets\"; they often promise safe drinking water, station and airport pick-ups, drinks in the lounge among the family portraits. Some simply offer homely bed and breakfast while others veer towards the boutique hotel (which is reflected in the price), but the ones to look for are those that invite you to join the family, sample home-cooked regional food and explore the suburbs, hilltops and backwaters of those untouristy corners of India you might never otherwise see.The former home of the Maharajah of Sirohi, this mansion of a townhouse is close to Civil Lines, in the thick of Old Delhi, but only two metro stops from Chandni Chowk (three from Connaught Circus). Beyond the gates, a private drive leads up to a grand entrance. It's big on ornate fireplaces, chandeliers, carved hardwood, bits of Hindu temple (the owner, the amiable Ashok Sahdev, collects antiques). For guests there's a choice of two standard doubles and two suites, all with bathrooms, air-con and cable TV, plus the run of the communal rooms - including a cocktail lounge with bar where you can chat over G&Ts. They serve up sit-down meals, buffets, barbecues, picnics, canap\u00e9s and even room service. And a big plus is the lovely urban garden \u2013 a world away from the mayhem of the Indian capital.\u2022 From \u00a347 a night; homeandhospitality.co.uk.Vikram is a retired air force officer; Paaro is descended from the Rajput aristocracy and she has her own clothing company (kaftans and vegetable-dyed cottons). Their home is a suburban villa to the west of Jaipur; a series of airy, open-plan living spaces arranged around a flower-filled atrium; marble floors, a roof terrace, antique-modern furnishings, two guest bedrooms with a private lounge and a self-contained cottage in the garden. Paaro can organise cookery demonstrations, Hindi lessons, yoga classes, or a visit to her clothing factory. Or you can just hang out in the garden on lawns dotted with fruit trees (papaya, pomegranate, custard apple) and organise your next outing (the Ranawats have family all over Rajasthan).\u2022 From \u00a326 a night; homeandhospitality.co.uk.Set in a quiet residential area, the house has a bowling-green lawn, geraniums spilling out of window boxes and views of the Shivalik hills - this city in the Doon Valley is the capital of Uttarakhand and makes a handy stopover en route from Delhi to the Himalayan National Park. After settling into your homely room, Mr Mehra, a retired wool processing specialist, wheels out the drinks trolley (whisky, anyone?), while his wife hands around her apparently famous snacks (try the tandoori chicken or the lamb brain kebabs). From the balcony you can see the misty forests of Mussoorie - the so-called Queen of hill stations. You can walk there in three hours or, for a modest fee, borrow the Mehras' car and driver.\u2022 From \u00a327 a night; homeandhospitality.co.uk.This smart city bolthole in south Delhi's Defence Colony is home to well-travelled couple Arun and Suman Khanna (the Colonel takes its name from Arun's Indian army father). Three bright guest rooms offer clean-cut decor and all mod-cons (marble bathrooms, Wi-Fi, air-con, cable TV and hospitality trays). There are balconies to sit out on, views of the city, staff to look after you (all meals are provided on request), plus the help and hospitality of your charming hosts (Arun is particularly up on round-Delhi cycling routes). Shops, markets, restaurants and the Humayun tomb, a World Heritage site, are all within walking distance.\u2022 From \u00a357 a night; colonelsretreat.com (also mahindrahomestays.com).Jamshed and Ayesha Madon's lovely Goan house sits in lush tropical gardens in a quiet hamlet roughly halfway between the market town of Mapusa and Baga beach. Jamshed, an ex-merchant mariner, and Ayesha, a former journalist, built the traditional-style house after moving south from Mumbai to start a new life. They now run a successful Italian restaurant, J&A's in Baga; they have a young son, eight-year-old Zal, a family of dogs and cats and three cool, spacious guest rooms - two in the house and one in a self-contained cottage in the garden. All are furnished with snazzy modern bathrooms and antique beds. Relax on the verandah or the sala (the Madons' living room), enjoy simple, homemade lunches such as curries, rice and salads, help yourself to a drink from the honesty bar, or head for the beach (a 15-minute drive). A swimming pool is planned for later this year.\u2022 From \u00a360 a night; capellagoa.com.This isn't one homestay, but a whole community of them \u2013 a choice of 14 in all, spread across six high-altitude villages all in the isolated Pin Valley, set against the frosted peaks of the Himalayas (Kibber, one of the world's highest villages, stands 4,500m above sea level). As homestays go, these mud-and-brick dwellings are a bit rougher than most (instead of bathrooms you get buckets of hot water, and the toilets are composting squats) but the guest rooms \u2013 one a household - are clean, and colourful, furnished with rugs and folksy fabrics. Aside from home-cooked Spitian cuisine (momos perhaps, or noodle soup), you get rugged scenery, invigorating mountain air, smiling faces and the odd yak safari. Not only will you step into a way of life in this Bhuddist community that hasn't really changed for centuries, but you will also help to keep it going.\u2022 Rooms from \u00a335 a night, including meals and a guide; mahindrahomestays.com.At Kuttanad, a tranquil corner of the Keralan backwaters, this \"heritage homestay\" is the 150-year-old home of a Syrian Christian family, Chackochan Edayady (\"Mr Chacko\") and his wife Salimma. Although both are academics (he is a professor of pharmacy; she teaches chemistry), they still run the family farm, a few watery acres of paddy and coconut palms just off the River Pampa. A traditional Keralan granary house (carved wood, a wraparound verandah, a pagoda-like tiled roof), provides three guest rooms (two are air-conditioned); and the food is fresh, homely and plentiful. Visit the magnificent St Mary's Forane church at Pulinconnoo, meet the locals, potter about in a country boat, or take a backwater trip to, say, Alappuzha (12 miles away).From a \u00a3100 a double, full board; nelpura.com, +91 477 2702336 (also keralaconnections.co.uk, +44 (0)1892 724913).In the heart of rubber country (between the hot coastal plains and the high tea gardens of the Western Ghats), George and Anju Abraham's 1950s house looks more Florida than Kerala - all Art Deco curves and decks of concrete \u2013 but what it offers is a taste of traditional Indian plantation life. Set in a tropical garden, peeking at the Mundakayam Valley through slender rubber trees, the bungalow has two large, simply furnished guest rooms, whirling ceiling fans, wicker chairs on shaded verandahs. George's family has farmed here for generations and he's keen to show you around: the Pullakaya River, the village rubber factory, Mundakayam's colonial-era planters' club. Dine en famille, while Anju bustles in and out with plate after plate of wonderful food: Appams with mild vegetable stew, fish moily, meat-ball curry, banana fry, fresh passion fruit juice (home grown). You can nip into the kitchen and see how it's done.\u2022 From \u00a359 a night; mahindrahomestays.com, +44 (0)203 140 8422 or stayhomz.com/evergreen.htm, +91 48 28 28431.In the Wayanad District, a belt of rainforest in the northern Keralan highlands, Glenora is one of those homestays for whom success has meant a push upmarket - but that doesn't dim the quality of the experience. Home to the hospitable Rajagopal family, and registered as a \"farm tourism provider\", the house is set in 90 acres of coffee, pepper, betel nut, lime, ginger, guava and avocado among other fruit and spices. As well as three light, well-furnished rooms in the house, there are two new cottages on stilts (each of the latter has two balconies overlooking the plantation \u2013 birds, monkeys, foliage and not another house in sight). Activities include trekking, jeep safaris, badminton and trips to Sunrise Valley (less than a mile away), Meenmutty Falls or the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary.\u2022 B&B from \u00a345 a night; glenorahomestay.com, +91 4936 217550/217450 (also mahindrahomestays.com).In the Sindhudurg region of southern Maharashtra, this rustic, adobe-style home offers two guest rooms opening on to a wide verandah that overlooks Ammu and Ashish Padgaonkar's farm - 12 acres of cashews, pineapples and coconut palms. It's off the beaten track, a bit of real India, but they offer hot water, proper loos and a great location. To the east is Amboli, the little hill station in the Sahyadri hills, to the west, the beaches of Vengurla - both are less than 20 miles away. Hop on a train at nearby Sawantwadi station (on the mainline Konkan Railway), and you can be in northern Goa in half an hour (the state border is some 10 miles south). Or just stay put; try a local bullock-cart ride, kcik back in a Nandan Farms hammock or enjoy Ammu's excellent cooking (fried mackerel, say, or Malvani-style chicken curry).\u2022 Doubles from around \u00a336 a night, full board; responsibletravel.com.", "tags": ["India holidays", "Hotels", "Asia", "Travel", "Kerala holidays", "Delhi holidays", "Goa holidays", "Top 10s"], "title": "Ten top homestays in India"},{"date": "2010-07-16T12:49:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "It may look like a melted British Rail sign but it's hoped that a new symbol for the Indian rupee will signal India's growing economic strength \u2011 and it will be coming soon to a keyboard near you.The winning design was selected by the Indian cabinet yesterday from a shortlist of five following a national competition.Measures are already afoot to have the rupee sign declared a computer standard, meaning it could join currencies such as the pound, dollar, euro and yen on keyboards within two years.\"The distinct symbol denotes the robustness of the Indian economy,\" India's information minister, Ambika Soni, said.References to sums in rupees currently involve spelling out the word (as is the case in the Guardian's style guide) or giving it the abbreviation Rs or INRs to distinguish it from other Asian countries that use rupees or variations thereof.\"Once accepted, it will stand clear from the clutter of currencies that call themselves rupee or the rupiah,\" India's Telegraph reported.The winning symbol was the work of Udaya Kumar, a lecture in design at the Indian Institute of Technology in Mumbai. Speaking to the Indian news website Rediff.com he said: \"My design is based on the tricolour, with two lines at the top and white space in between. I wanted the symbol for the rupee to represent the Indian flag. It is a perfect blend of Indian and Roman letters: a capital 'R' and Devanagari 'ra' which represents rupiya, to appeal to international audiences and Indian audiences.\"Michael Johnson, a director at the award-winning London-based design consultancy johnson banks, said the new symbol fitted with other currency signs but lacked imagination.\"I think it's a B or B plus. Most currency symbols follow an established route now \u2011 E for euro, Y for yen, now R for rupee. You could argue that a dynamic emerging economy could have gone for something more unusual and got away with it \u2011 I think in the end conservative voices prevailed.\"", "tags": ["India", "World news", "Currencies"], "title": "India unveils new rupee symbol"},{"date": "2010-07-16T06:25:10Z", "country": "india", "content": "The Times's India correspondent, Jeremy Page, has joined the exodus from the newspaper, triggering a reshuffle at its foreign desk.Sources on the paper have confirmed that Page will leave prior to what had been a planned move to the role of China correspondent. According to his colleagues he has landed a job at the Wall Street Journal.The Middle East correspondent, James Hider, is being lined up for the post of India correspondent, according to Times sources. The China correspondent, Jane McCartney, is returning from the country soon to join the foreign desk. It is not clear who will replace her in Beijing.The foreign desk changes come as the Times goes through a round of about 20 compulsory redundancies, on top of 40 voluntary departures. About 10 new staff will also be hired to fill posts vacated by some of those taking voluntary redundancy.James Harding, the Times editor, recently warned the paper's staff that it was making \"unsustainable\" losses.Neither Page nor Hider had responded to requests for comment from MediaGuardian.co.uk.A Times spokeswoman was unavailable to comment at the time of publication.\u2022 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.\u2022 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".", "tags": ["The Times", "National newspapers", "Newspapers", "Newspapers & magazines", "Media downturn", "Media"], "title": "India correspondent leaves the Times"},{"date": "2010-09-17T08:59:31Z", "country": "india", "content": "\u2022 If you're planning on taking a substantial number of train journeys, it will work out much cheaper to buy an Indrail Pass from Shankar Dandapani at SD Enterprises who represents Indian Railways in the UK. If you can, stop by his office in Wembley for face-to-face guidance. Shankar has incredible knowledge of the railways and is worth his weight in gold. 103, Wembley Park Drive, Wembley, Middlesex; +44 (0)208 9033411, indiarail.co.uk , info@indiarail.co.uk\u2022 Make reservations as far in advance as you can. Unless you're taking a short-distance passenger train, arriving at the station and hopping on is not an option as seats are booked up to 90 days in advance.\u2022 Book tickets at the station's foreign tourist desk if there is one. Check indianrail.gov.in to find out which cities have one. Many trains offer a small number of \"tourist quota\" tickets even if the train is fully booked for lndian residents. Anusha Thawani on the first floor of New Delhi station is excellent and goes out of her way to find last-minute seats.\u2022 Learn the lingo. You might find your ticket says \"RAC\", which means reserved against cancellation. If someone else cancels a reserved ticket before departure, you will then be promoted to a confirmed seat or berth. You can still travel with an RAC ticket and will be given a seat, but you may not be offered a berth at night. \"WL\" means waitlisted, so you should check the sheet of paper stuck by the carriage door to see if your seat is confirmed.To check routes, names and times indiarailinfo.com is an excellent site that doesn't crash under heavy traffic and offers clear, comprehensive information.\u2022 Never accept tickets from touts or visit side-street agents claiming they will find you a confirmed seat. Indian railways has one central computerised system and it's safest to do all bookings at a station counter.\u2022 You can buy tickets online at the official government-sponsored website irctc.co.in, but it is a bit confusing to navigate. Most people find cleartrip.com a lot easier and worth the small extra booking fee.", "tags": ["India holidays", "Rail travel", "Travel websites", "Travel"], "title": "Tips on travelling by train in India"},{"date": "2010-09-17T23:05:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "This is a confession. I've been at it again \u2013 travelling, and on a motorcycle. Though only a small one, it feels quite sinful.I am 77. I should know better, grow up, act my age, potter sedately round a golf course in an electric buggy. But, no, I choose to spend six months exploring the Indian subcontinent.My wife, of course, is pleased to have me out of the house. Men, when they don't work five days a week, occupy too much space. We have irritating habits \u2013 not putting the seat back down, leaving dirty socks and underpants on the floor, failing to put the milk and butter back in the refrigerator.What do my sons think? The older two, in their 40s, merely shrug; Dad's acting true to form. But Joshua and Jedediah are university age. Ancient Dad playing Che Guevara is an embarrassment. Their gap-year friends message me: \"Hi, Simon, have you left yet? We're in the Andaman Islands.\"To which Joshua posts: \"Oh, my God, my 78-year-old dad on Facebook.\"I reply: \"Only 76, please. I will celebrate my 77th birthday in Goa.\"Fellow oldies corner me and ask questions. How are your preparations going? What route will you take?What should I answer? That planning is time ill used, time in which to grow nervous, fearful even, relive two heart attacks suffered 15 years ago in Guatemala's highlands or dwell on a more recent memory of a truck smashing my leg the first day of my ride north from Tierra del Fuego \u2013 which meant five weeks in plaster and having to carry crutches on the bike all the way to New York. So, no, no planning, no wiggling a toe in a swimming pool. Leap is the only way. Pack the bare necessities: six months of heart medication, good shoes for meeting rajas and maharajas (mine are 20-year-old Church's) and wear one of those multi-pocketed waistcoats to avoid mislaying the essentials.I haven't visited India in 40 years. Delhi is a shock. When I was last here only sadhus talked out loud to themselves. Now everyone does it, rich or poor, old or young, all yakking into mobile phones. Fewer cows wander the streets, more cars \u2013 and myriad cab and tuk-tuk drivers practise unmetered highway robbery. Traffic circles and intersections are reminiscent of first world war aerial combat; every pilot picks his own line of attack \u2013 go for the gaps or lose your tail.Am I scared? Yes, obviously.Humid windless winter days shroud the Mogul splendour and Victorian pomposity in a veil of blue exhaust fumes. Wise travellers wear surgical face masks. But oh, the food! I head for the old Muslim quarter beside the Jama Masjid mosque for divine kebabs \u2014 and being an offal lover rejoice at delicately spiced lamb's brain.Forty years have passed since I last sought wisdom from a Sufi teacher at the shrine of Nizamuddin Auliya, the Sufi saint. His son teaches now the same heretical message: God doesn't mind which route you take to him, only that you arrive.South next, to Agra, astride Honda India's latest 125 cafe racer (model name Stunner), fire-engine red and comically unsuitable as the mount for an overweight antique. This is a land of flat dusty fields stretching to a mirage-quivering horizon. Drivers respond neither to law nor logic.Each mud-wall village is a chaotic marketplace, full of handcarts, pedal-bikes, rickshaws, cows, goats, pigs, sheep, the occasional donkey or elephant. I pass men in white dhotis, women in brilliantly coloured saris. Tractors, trucks and buses barge past with sirens blaring where I creep timidly, British interloper guilt-ridden by childhood memories of the Empire. I stop for tea and a crowd converges \u2013 though the bike is of greater interest than the Ancient Brit.Agra's Taj Mahal is a grotesque monument to the male ego: marvel at the wealth and power with which I immortalise my love. I prefer to cross the Yamuna river to a tomb of modest size but of exquisite delicacy, where the parents of Nur Jahan lie side by side, lovers holding hands for eternity. Such tenderness and beauty bring me close to tears. Everywhere I go, people are keen to talk. I fall into conversation in the great courtyard of the Red Fort with the president of a Delhi-based American software corporation. He spends his days facing a computer monitor yet loathes computers. Computers destroy the family, he says. But they are the main link to mine while I'm travelling.At Akbar I visit the red sandstone imperial complex of Fatehpur Sikri . \"Do you find this beautiful?\" demands a small aggressive Indian gentleman as I admire the intricate carvings. \"No, no, this is not beautiful,\" he says. \"Have you seen Hampton Court? There is beauty.\" So he continues until, in desperation, I ask of his companion, a tall younger man in short sleeves and trainers: \"Do you have to listen to this?\"\"Listen? I've been listening for six weeks. He's my dad,\" he replies, accent indelibly marked by an English public school and the home counties.Jaipur, rose city of Rajasthan, is hosting a literary festival when I arrive. Famous writers bask in five-star luxury at the maharajah's palace; bulge-bellied Indian movie actors glide self-importantly among their worshipers; meanwhile the poor sleep and breed and cook and defecate on the sidewalk.In Jodhpur I admire the art deco splendour of the Umaid Bhawan Palace \u2013 347 rooms, 15 years in the building, the charitable maharajah's make-work project for his starving subjects. Why not a city sewage system?Pushkar is a haven for pony-tailed relics of the psychedelic 1970s still searching for enlightenment in a cloud of smoke. Staff and guests sit glaze-eyed in the hotel garden. Stars sparkle. The holy lake is empty.Gazelle gaze as I stop beneath a tree on the desert road to Jaisalmer. Here, below the golden walls of the fort, I watch two Sikh brothers rebuild a 1961 Royal Enfield Bullet motorbike while a craftsman tailors me a bag in camel hide. Keep the myriad fortresses and palaces; this is the Rajasthan I love: rich gummy scents of the desert, dunes trembling in the heat, the lifted upper lip of a camel as it nibbles the few thin green leaves on a thorn tree; scrawny goats perched on a branch. I halt in a village and loll on a string bed in the shade, sipping sweet milk tea.Leaving the desert aridity behind, I head south to Mumbai and then to Goa, the winter goal of our 1960s overland trips. This is a green land of forested hills, milk-coffee rivers, coconut palm and rice paddy. Immense rain trees offer shade. The sea perfumes the air with salt and iodine. Menus feature fresh fish and prawns. I was warned Goa had been ruined. But not for me, nor for the thousands of tourists who bask in the sun. The sand is as golden, Goans as welcoming. The bungalow I rented on Calangute 40 years ago has become a beach bar. I luxuriate at the Taj Hotel's cliff-top resort. A band plays me awake and the front desk manager calls, \"Happy 77th birthday, grandfather. Up you get. We're going to give you a wonderful day.\"Then I'm heading south through Kerala's magical canals and lagoons to the very tip of India at Kanyakumari, Tamil Nadu, to go paddling at sunset, one foot in the Indian Ocean, one in the Bay of Bengal. My journey is half way done.Bad experiences? Not even a puncture. However the heat is intense. Oven-baked fields wait for the monsoon rains. I race north up the east coast to Kolkata, but with Sikkim and Assam as my goal, leave at dawn and ride all day. Kodaikanal, Mamallapuram and Puri are way stations, and I pause for a day to explore Orissa \u2013 the byways of its littoral, the emerald paddies, creeks and ponds carpeted with lilies and water hyacinth where herons, white egrets and water buffalo stand. Straw-roofed huts are reflected in a temple's water tank.In Kolkata I am banned, to the embarrassment of my Indian hosts, from the bar and dining room of the city's most prestigious social club. My social sin? Wearing an Indian shirt (collarless). Poverty in Kolkata may be marginally more obscene than in Mumbai or Delhi \u2013 yet this is a city to love for the energy and humour and generosity of the people. My guide to the city is Indian food writer Colonel Rajan Bali. We set out for lunch or dinner, the colonel in the lead, each of his first few strides accompanied by a clap of his hands. Such were the games-master encouragements of my youth: come on chaps \u2026So onward and upward to Sikkim, land of spring where rhododendrons and primulas paint high valleys and the magic peaks of Mount Kanchendzonga shimmer in sunshine. Sikkim's women own themselves and wave and shout and laugh as I pass. Brightly dressed pickers speckle tea gardens. Wisps of cloud curl through pine forest. I ride at dawn and pray beside Khecheopalri Lake, follow friends in their jeep up a military road from Lachung to the snow line: these are my memories. By this stage I have met many people, I am befriended by all ages, my own is irrelevant, and I have found it is an expanding friendship that directs me onward. You must visit so and so. They're expecting you.So it is in Assam. Here I discover the tranquillity of the raja's 19th-century compound in the small town of Abhayapuri; the gateway town of Guwahati, one of India's fastest growing cities; and the Kaziranga national park, where black rhino waddle in baggy bloomers of armour plate. All I need is a last hurrah ...I am warned that the road over the mountains to Tawang in Arunachal Pradesh is bad. I can handle it. The road climbs first through clouded forest, visibility 15 metres. I halt at a tiny tin-shack teahouse. Two inebriated young tribal police with big guns demand a kiss. They give me a peck on the cheek and I flee. After a night's sleep at Dirang I face the Sela Pass, the high route into the Tawang valley, once part of Tibet. Bits of road have fallen down the mountain. Bits of mountain have fallen on the road. Wind blasts a chilling cold off the snow peaks. Old fool, frightened of heights, don't look down. I reach the top at 4,180m and am too exhausted to dismount. Yet the descent is glorious, the climate changing from late winter through spring to early summer as I wind my way down. A last climb to Tawang town and clouds close in. Thankfully there are places to stay, interesting food to eat, the monastery to visit. Rain falls continuously for five days, stretches of road turn to deep liquid mud. The bike has no chance here. A 4x4 pickup is the only solution. After a final dinner with much beer with the military commandant on Assam's border, two soldiers escort me to bed and my journey is done.What have I learned? That I am no longer a teenager. But what the heck? Go for it, grandpa. Go for it. This is living. I'm already back on the road \u2026 I have just started a trip through California and Mexico and I'm planning to be in Nigeria in February for my 78th.Check out Simon Gandolfi's travels at simongandolfi.com. See Simon's video of his India trip above.Blazing Trails Tours (01902 894009, blazingtrailstours.com) has two-week motorbike holidays to various regions of India, including Rajasthan, Goa, Kerala and the Himalayas. Prices range from \u00a31,499 to \u00a32,650 and include bike (usually a 350cc Enfield), mechanical back-up, medical and luggage-carrying support and B&B accommodation but not flights. In Delhi, Lalli Motorbike Exports (+91 11 2875 0869, lallisingh.com) rents 500cc Royal Enfields from around \u00a3235 per month.", "tags": ["India holidays", "Road trips", "Travel"], "title": "Round India by motorbike"},{"date": "2010-09-07T09:05:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The Indian \"homestay\" experience has grown from strength to strength since the idea first emerged in Kerala, a decade or so ago. Now there are homestay tours and specialist agencies for the many hospitable families offering modestly priced accommodation in a variety of homes from city apartments to plantation houses. The majority are in the far north or the far south (Delhi, Rajasthan, Kerala), but the idea is spreading into other states. As a general rule, they are middle-class houses, largely run by the active retired professionals, though there are younger, or poorer, families among homestay hosts. Website galleries proudly feature pictures of \"European-style toilets\"; they often promise safe drinking water, station and airport pick-ups, drinks in the lounge among the family portraits. Some simply offer homely bed and breakfast while others veer towards the boutique hotel (which is reflected in the price), but the ones to look for are those that invite you to join the family, sample home-cooked regional food and explore the suburbs, hilltops and backwaters of those untouristy corners of India you might never otherwise see.The former home of the Maharajah of Sirohi, this mansion of a townhouse is close to Civil Lines, in the thick of Old Delhi, but only two metro stops from Chandni Chowk (three from Connaught Circus). Beyond the gates, a private drive leads up to a grand entrance. It's big on ornate fireplaces, chandeliers, carved hardwood, bits of Hindu temple (the owner, the amiable Ashok Sahdev, collects antiques). For guests there's a choice of two standard doubles and two suites, all with bathrooms, air-con and cable TV, plus the run of the communal rooms - including a cocktail lounge with bar where you can chat over G&Ts. They serve up sit-down meals, buffets, barbecues, picnics, canap\u00e9s and even room service. And a big plus is the lovely urban garden \u2013 a world away from the mayhem of the Indian capital.\u2022 From \u00a347 a night; homeandhospitality.co.uk.Vikram is a retired air force officer; Paaro is descended from the Rajput aristocracy and she has her own clothing company (kaftans and vegetable-dyed cottons). Their home is a suburban villa to the west of Jaipur; a series of airy, open-plan living spaces arranged around a flower-filled atrium; marble floors, a roof terrace, antique-modern furnishings, two guest bedrooms with a private lounge and a self-contained cottage in the garden. Paaro can organise cookery demonstrations, Hindi lessons, yoga classes, or a visit to her clothing factory. Or you can just hang out in the garden on lawns dotted with fruit trees (papaya, pomegranate, custard apple) and organise your next outing (the Ranawats have family all over Rajasthan).\u2022 From \u00a326 a night; homeandhospitality.co.uk.Set in a quiet residential area, the house has a bowling-green lawn, geraniums spilling out of window boxes and views of the Shivalik hills - this city in the Doon Valley is the capital of Uttarakhand and makes a handy stopover en route from Delhi to the Himalayan National Park. After settling into your homely room, Mr Mehra, a retired wool processing specialist, wheels out the drinks trolley (whisky, anyone?), while his wife hands around her apparently famous snacks (try the tandoori chicken or the lamb brain kebabs). From the balcony you can see the misty forests of Mussoorie - the so-called Queen of hill stations. You can walk there in three hours or, for a modest fee, borrow the Mehras' car and driver.\u2022 From \u00a327 a night; homeandhospitality.co.uk.This smart city bolthole in south Delhi's Defence Colony is home to well-travelled couple Arun and Suman Khanna (the Colonel takes its name from Arun's Indian army father). Three bright guest rooms offer clean-cut decor and all mod-cons (marble bathrooms, Wi-Fi, air-con, cable TV and hospitality trays). There are balconies to sit out on, views of the city, staff to look after you (all meals are provided on request), plus the help and hospitality of your charming hosts (Arun is particularly up on round-Delhi cycling routes). Shops, markets, restaurants and the Humayun tomb, a World Heritage site, are all within walking distance.\u2022 From \u00a357 a night; colonelsretreat.com (also mahindrahomestays.com).Jamshed and Ayesha Madon's lovely Goan house sits in lush tropical gardens in a quiet hamlet roughly halfway between the market town of Mapusa and Baga beach. Jamshed, an ex-merchant mariner, and Ayesha, a former journalist, built the traditional-style house after moving south from Mumbai to start a new life. They now run a successful Italian restaurant, J&A's in Baga; they have a young son, eight-year-old Zal, a family of dogs and cats and three cool, spacious guest rooms - two in the house and one in a self-contained cottage in the garden. All are furnished with snazzy modern bathrooms and antique beds. Relax on the verandah or the sala (the Madons' living room), enjoy simple, homemade lunches such as curries, rice and salads, help yourself to a drink from the honesty bar, or head for the beach (a 15-minute drive). A swimming pool is planned for later this year.\u2022 From \u00a360 a night; capellagoa.com.This isn't one homestay, but a whole community of them \u2013 a choice of 14 in all, spread across six high-altitude villages all in the isolated Pin Valley, set against the frosted peaks of the Himalayas (Kibber, one of the world's highest villages, stands 4,500m above sea level). As homestays go, these mud-and-brick dwellings are a bit rougher than most (instead of bathrooms you get buckets of hot water, and the toilets are composting squats) but the guest rooms \u2013 one a household - are clean, and colourful, furnished with rugs and folksy fabrics. Aside from home-cooked Spitian cuisine (momos perhaps, or noodle soup), you get rugged scenery, invigorating mountain air, smiling faces and the odd yak safari. Not only will you step into a way of life in this Bhuddist community that hasn't really changed for centuries, but you will also help to keep it going.\u2022 Rooms from \u00a335 a night, including meals and a guide; mahindrahomestays.com.At Kuttanad, a tranquil corner of the Keralan backwaters, this \"heritage homestay\" is the 150-year-old home of a Syrian Christian family, Chackochan Edayady (\"Mr Chacko\") and his wife Salimma. Although both are academics (he is a professor of pharmacy; she teaches chemistry), they still run the family farm, a few watery acres of paddy and coconut palms just off the River Pampa. A traditional Keralan granary house (carved wood, a wraparound verandah, a pagoda-like tiled roof), provides three guest rooms (two are air-conditioned); and the food is fresh, homely and plentiful. Visit the magnificent St Mary's Forane church at Pulinconnoo, meet the locals, potter about in a country boat, or take a backwater trip to, say, Alappuzha (12 miles away).From a \u00a3100 a double, full board; nelpura.com, +91 477 2702336 (also keralaconnections.co.uk, +44 (0)1892 724913).In the heart of rubber country (between the hot coastal plains and the high tea gardens of the Western Ghats), George and Anju Abraham's 1950s house looks more Florida than Kerala - all Art Deco curves and decks of concrete \u2013 but what it offers is a taste of traditional Indian plantation life. Set in a tropical garden, peeking at the Mundakayam Valley through slender rubber trees, the bungalow has two large, simply furnished guest rooms, whirling ceiling fans, wicker chairs on shaded verandahs. George's family has farmed here for generations and he's keen to show you around: the Pullakaya River, the village rubber factory, Mundakayam's colonial-era planters' club. Dine en famille, while Anju bustles in and out with plate after plate of wonderful food: Appams with mild vegetable stew, fish moily, meat-ball curry, banana fry, fresh passion fruit juice (home grown). You can nip into the kitchen and see how it's done.\u2022 From \u00a359 a night; mahindrahomestays.com, +44 (0)203 140 8422 or stayhomz.com/evergreen.htm, +91 48 28 28431.In the Wayanad District, a belt of rainforest in the northern Keralan highlands, Glenora is one of those homestays for whom success has meant a push upmarket - but that doesn't dim the quality of the experience. Home to the hospitable Rajagopal family, and registered as a \"farm tourism provider\", the house is set in 90 acres of coffee, pepper, betel nut, lime, ginger, guava and avocado among other fruit and spices. As well as three light, well-furnished rooms in the house, there are two new cottages on stilts (each of the latter has two balconies overlooking the plantation \u2013 birds, monkeys, foliage and not another house in sight). Activities include trekking, jeep safaris, badminton and trips to Sunrise Valley (less than a mile away), Meenmutty Falls or the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary.\u2022 B&B from \u00a345 a night; glenorahomestay.com, +91 4936 217550/217450 (also mahindrahomestays.com).In the Sindhudurg region of southern Maharashtra, this rustic, adobe-style home offers two guest rooms opening on to a wide verandah that overlooks Ammu and Ashish Padgaonkar's farm - 12 acres of cashews, pineapples and coconut palms. It's off the beaten track, a bit of real India, but they offer hot water, proper loos and a great location. To the east is Amboli, the little hill station in the Sahyadri hills, to the west, the beaches of Vengurla - both are less than 20 miles away. Hop on a train at nearby Sawantwadi station (on the mainline Konkan Railway), and you can be in northern Goa in half an hour (the state border is some 10 miles south). Or just stay put; try a local bullock-cart ride, kcik back in a Nandan Farms hammock or enjoy Ammu's excellent cooking (fried mackerel, say, or Malvani-style chicken curry).\u2022 Doubles from around \u00a336 a night, full board; responsibletravel.com.", "tags": ["India holidays", "Hotels", "Asia", "Travel", "Kerala holidays", "Delhi holidays", "Goa holidays", "Top 10s"], "title": "Ten top homestays in India"},{"date": "2010-07-16T12:49:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "It may look like a melted British Rail sign but it's hoped that a new symbol for the Indian rupee will signal India's growing economic strength \u2011 and it will be coming soon to a keyboard near you.The winning design was selected by the Indian cabinet yesterday from a shortlist of five following a national competition.Measures are already afoot to have the rupee sign declared a computer standard, meaning it could join currencies such as the pound, dollar, euro and yen on keyboards within two years.\"The distinct symbol denotes the robustness of the Indian economy,\" India's information minister, Ambika Soni, said.References to sums in rupees currently involve spelling out the word (as is the case in the Guardian's style guide) or giving it the abbreviation Rs or INRs to distinguish it from other Asian countries that use rupees or variations thereof.\"Once accepted, it will stand clear from the clutter of currencies that call themselves rupee or the rupiah,\" India's Telegraph reported.The winning symbol was the work of Udaya Kumar, a lecture in design at the Indian Institute of Technology in Mumbai. Speaking to the Indian news website Rediff.com he said: \"My design is based on the tricolour, with two lines at the top and white space in between. I wanted the symbol for the rupee to represent the Indian flag. It is a perfect blend of Indian and Roman letters: a capital 'R' and Devanagari 'ra' which represents rupiya, to appeal to international audiences and Indian audiences.\"Michael Johnson, a director at the award-winning London-based design consultancy johnson banks, said the new symbol fitted with other currency signs but lacked imagination.\"I think it's a B or B plus. Most currency symbols follow an established route now \u2011 E for euro, Y for yen, now R for rupee. You could argue that a dynamic emerging economy could have gone for something more unusual and got away with it \u2011 I think in the end conservative voices prevailed.\"", "tags": ["India", "World news", "Currencies"], "title": "India unveils new rupee symbol"},{"date": "2010-07-16T06:25:10Z", "country": "india", "content": "The Times's India correspondent, Jeremy Page, has joined the exodus from the newspaper, triggering a reshuffle at its foreign desk.Sources on the paper have confirmed that Page will leave prior to what had been a planned move to the role of China correspondent. According to his colleagues he has landed a job at the Wall Street Journal.The Middle East correspondent, James Hider, is being lined up for the post of India correspondent, according to Times sources. The China correspondent, Jane McCartney, is returning from the country soon to join the foreign desk. It is not clear who will replace her in Beijing.The foreign desk changes come as the Times goes through a round of about 20 compulsory redundancies, on top of 40 voluntary departures. About 10 new staff will also be hired to fill posts vacated by some of those taking voluntary redundancy.James Harding, the Times editor, recently warned the paper's staff that it was making \"unsustainable\" losses.Neither Page nor Hider had responded to requests for comment from MediaGuardian.co.uk.A Times spokeswoman was unavailable to comment at the time of publication.\u2022 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.\u2022 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".", "tags": ["The Times", "National newspapers", "Newspapers", "Newspapers & magazines", "Media downturn", "Media"], "title": "India correspondent leaves the Times"},{"date": "2010-09-17T08:59:31Z", "country": "india", "content": "\u2022 If you're planning on taking a substantial number of train journeys, it will work out much cheaper to buy an Indrail Pass from Shankar Dandapani at SD Enterprises who represents Indian Railways in the UK. If you can, stop by his office in Wembley for face-to-face guidance. Shankar has incredible knowledge of the railways and is worth his weight in gold. 103, Wembley Park Drive, Wembley, Middlesex; +44 (0)208 9033411, indiarail.co.uk , info@indiarail.co.uk\u2022 Make reservations as far in advance as you can. Unless you're taking a short-distance passenger train, arriving at the station and hopping on is not an option as seats are booked up to 90 days in advance.\u2022 Book tickets at the station's foreign tourist desk if there is one. Check indianrail.gov.in to find out which cities have one. Many trains offer a small number of \"tourist quota\" tickets even if the train is fully booked for lndian residents. Anusha Thawani on the first floor of New Delhi station is excellent and goes out of her way to find last-minute seats.\u2022 Learn the lingo. You might find your ticket says \"RAC\", which means reserved against cancellation. If someone else cancels a reserved ticket before departure, you will then be promoted to a confirmed seat or berth. You can still travel with an RAC ticket and will be given a seat, but you may not be offered a berth at night. \"WL\" means waitlisted, so you should check the sheet of paper stuck by the carriage door to see if your seat is confirmed.To check routes, names and times indiarailinfo.com is an excellent site that doesn't crash under heavy traffic and offers clear, comprehensive information.\u2022 Never accept tickets from touts or visit side-street agents claiming they will find you a confirmed seat. Indian railways has one central computerised system and it's safest to do all bookings at a station counter.\u2022 You can buy tickets online at the official government-sponsored website irctc.co.in, but it is a bit confusing to navigate. Most people find cleartrip.com a lot easier and worth the small extra booking fee.", "tags": ["India holidays", "Rail travel", "Travel websites", "Travel"], "title": "Tips on travelling by train in India"},{"date": "2010-08-31T14:59:46Z", "country": "india", "content": "India's supreme court has reopened the Bhopal toxic gas leak case in response to a government petition seeking harsher punishment for officials from Union Carbide, the chemical company responsible.In a decision that delighted the long-running campaign for justice by the survivors of the 1984 gas disaster, India's highest court today agreed to review its earlier decision that reduced the crime from one of \"culpable homicide\" to \"a rash and negligent act\".Because of the lighter charges, seven Union Carbide officials received just two-year prison sentences when the court case finally concluded in June this year \u2013 25 years after the accident, which the government says killed around 3,500 people. Activists say at least 22,000 died in the immediate aftermath and the following years.The sentences led to a national outcry, forcing Delhi to tell the federal police, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), to ask the court for more stringent charges with punishment of up to 10 years in jail.\"For the first time after 26 years of struggle and suffering, suddenly we see a ray of hope thanks to the supreme court decision,\" Balkrishna Namdeo, a gas leak victim, said on television from Bhopal. \"Now there is hope that we will get justice.\"However, former Union Carbide chairman Keshub Mahindra and the six other senior officials will be given an opportunity to try to convince the three judges that they should not face more serious charges before a final decision is issued.Because of the length of time taken for the existing sentences to be handed down, there is concern among survivors that they might face many more years of legal wrangling.Earlier this month another bench of the supreme court likened the delay to the fictional Jarndyce v Jarndyce case in Charles Dickens' Bleak House.\"In that case the matter dragged on for 100 years; several generations had died,\" the judges said. \"The descendants, the advocates and the judges were not aware what the case was about, but they were fighting it. India is also becoming like that. Cases keep dragging.\"By the time the Bhopal case is decided, the judges added, \"the victims will all be dead\".CBI counsel Devadutt Kamat said once the supreme court decided on the petition it could issue orders for an \"expeditious hearing\".Kamat also said the demand for higher compensation for Bhopal's victims was a separate issue that was being examined by the ministry of chemicals.An Amnesty study showed that 7,000 people perished within days of the release of methyl isocyanate gas at the pesticide plant on 3 December 1984, and a further 15,000 died later from exposure to the gas. Countless others suffered lifelong damage to their health.", "tags": ["Bhopal", "India", "World news"], "title": "India reopens Bhopal toxic gas leak case"},{"date": "2010-09-17T23:05:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "This is a confession. I've been at it again \u2013 travelling, and on a motorcycle. Though only a small one, it feels quite sinful.I am 77. I should know better, grow up, act my age, potter sedately round a golf course in an electric buggy. But, no, I choose to spend six months exploring the Indian subcontinent.My wife, of course, is pleased to have me out of the house. Men, when they don't work five days a week, occupy too much space. We have irritating habits \u2013 not putting the seat back down, leaving dirty socks and underpants on the floor, failing to put the milk and butter back in the refrigerator.What do my sons think? The older two, in their 40s, merely shrug; Dad's acting true to form. But Joshua and Jedediah are university age. Ancient Dad playing Che Guevara is an embarrassment. Their gap-year friends message me: \"Hi, Simon, have you left yet? We're in the Andaman Islands.\"To which Joshua posts: \"Oh, my God, my 78-year-old dad on Facebook.\"I reply: \"Only 76, please. I will celebrate my 77th birthday in Goa.\"Fellow oldies corner me and ask questions. How are your preparations going? What route will you take?What should I answer? That planning is time ill used, time in which to grow nervous, fearful even, relive two heart attacks suffered 15 years ago in Guatemala's highlands or dwell on a more recent memory of a truck smashing my leg the first day of my ride north from Tierra del Fuego \u2013 which meant five weeks in plaster and having to carry crutches on the bike all the way to New York. So, no, no planning, no wiggling a toe in a swimming pool. Leap is the only way. Pack the bare necessities: six months of heart medication, good shoes for meeting rajas and maharajas (mine are 20-year-old Church's) and wear one of those multi-pocketed waistcoats to avoid mislaying the essentials.I haven't visited India in 40 years. Delhi is a shock. When I was last here only sadhus talked out loud to themselves. Now everyone does it, rich or poor, old or young, all yakking into mobile phones. Fewer cows wander the streets, more cars \u2013 and myriad cab and tuk-tuk drivers practise unmetered highway robbery. Traffic circles and intersections are reminiscent of first world war aerial combat; every pilot picks his own line of attack \u2013 go for the gaps or lose your tail.Am I scared? Yes, obviously.Humid windless winter days shroud the Mogul splendour and Victorian pomposity in a veil of blue exhaust fumes. Wise travellers wear surgical face masks. But oh, the food! I head for the old Muslim quarter beside the Jama Masjid mosque for divine kebabs \u2014 and being an offal lover rejoice at delicately spiced lamb's brain.Forty years have passed since I last sought wisdom from a Sufi teacher at the shrine of Nizamuddin Auliya, the Sufi saint. His son teaches now the same heretical message: God doesn't mind which route you take to him, only that you arrive.South next, to Agra, astride Honda India's latest 125 cafe racer (model name Stunner), fire-engine red and comically unsuitable as the mount for an overweight antique. This is a land of flat dusty fields stretching to a mirage-quivering horizon. Drivers respond neither to law nor logic.Each mud-wall village is a chaotic marketplace, full of handcarts, pedal-bikes, rickshaws, cows, goats, pigs, sheep, the occasional donkey or elephant. I pass men in white dhotis, women in brilliantly coloured saris. Tractors, trucks and buses barge past with sirens blaring where I creep timidly, British interloper guilt-ridden by childhood memories of the Empire. I stop for tea and a crowd converges \u2013 though the bike is of greater interest than the Ancient Brit.Agra's Taj Mahal is a grotesque monument to the male ego: marvel at the wealth and power with which I immortalise my love. I prefer to cross the Yamuna river to a tomb of modest size but of exquisite delicacy, where the parents of Nur Jahan lie side by side, lovers holding hands for eternity. Such tenderness and beauty bring me close to tears. Everywhere I go, people are keen to talk. I fall into conversation in the great courtyard of the Red Fort with the president of a Delhi-based American software corporation. He spends his days facing a computer monitor yet loathes computers. Computers destroy the family, he says. But they are the main link to mine while I'm travelling.At Akbar I visit the red sandstone imperial complex of Fatehpur Sikri . \"Do you find this beautiful?\" demands a small aggressive Indian gentleman as I admire the intricate carvings. \"No, no, this is not beautiful,\" he says. \"Have you seen Hampton Court? There is beauty.\" So he continues until, in desperation, I ask of his companion, a tall younger man in short sleeves and trainers: \"Do you have to listen to this?\"\"Listen? I've been listening for six weeks. He's my dad,\" he replies, accent indelibly marked by an English public school and the home counties.Jaipur, rose city of Rajasthan, is hosting a literary festival when I arrive. Famous writers bask in five-star luxury at the maharajah's palace; bulge-bellied Indian movie actors glide self-importantly among their worshipers; meanwhile the poor sleep and breed and cook and defecate on the sidewalk.In Jodhpur I admire the art deco splendour of the Umaid Bhawan Palace \u2013 347 rooms, 15 years in the building, the charitable maharajah's make-work project for his starving subjects. Why not a city sewage system?Pushkar is a haven for pony-tailed relics of the psychedelic 1970s still searching for enlightenment in a cloud of smoke. Staff and guests sit glaze-eyed in the hotel garden. Stars sparkle. The holy lake is empty.Gazelle gaze as I stop beneath a tree on the desert road to Jaisalmer. Here, below the golden walls of the fort, I watch two Sikh brothers rebuild a 1961 Royal Enfield Bullet motorbike while a craftsman tailors me a bag in camel hide. Keep the myriad fortresses and palaces; this is the Rajasthan I love: rich gummy scents of the desert, dunes trembling in the heat, the lifted upper lip of a camel as it nibbles the few thin green leaves on a thorn tree; scrawny goats perched on a branch. I halt in a village and loll on a string bed in the shade, sipping sweet milk tea.Leaving the desert aridity behind, I head south to Mumbai and then to Goa, the winter goal of our 1960s overland trips. This is a green land of forested hills, milk-coffee rivers, coconut palm and rice paddy. Immense rain trees offer shade. The sea perfumes the air with salt and iodine. Menus feature fresh fish and prawns. I was warned Goa had been ruined. But not for me, nor for the thousands of tourists who bask in the sun. The sand is as golden, Goans as welcoming. The bungalow I rented on Calangute 40 years ago has become a beach bar. I luxuriate at the Taj Hotel's cliff-top resort. A band plays me awake and the front desk manager calls, \"Happy 77th birthday, grandfather. Up you get. We're going to give you a wonderful day.\"Then I'm heading south through Kerala's magical canals and lagoons to the very tip of India at Kanyakumari, Tamil Nadu, to go paddling at sunset, one foot in the Indian Ocean, one in the Bay of Bengal. My journey is half way done.Bad experiences? Not even a puncture. However the heat is intense. Oven-baked fields wait for the monsoon rains. I race north up the east coast to Kolkata, but with Sikkim and Assam as my goal, leave at dawn and ride all day. Kodaikanal, Mamallapuram and Puri are way stations, and I pause for a day to explore Orissa \u2013 the byways of its littoral, the emerald paddies, creeks and ponds carpeted with lilies and water hyacinth where herons, white egrets and water buffalo stand. Straw-roofed huts are reflected in a temple's water tank.In Kolkata I am banned, to the embarrassment of my Indian hosts, from the bar and dining room of the city's most prestigious social club. My social sin? Wearing an Indian shirt (collarless). Poverty in Kolkata may be marginally more obscene than in Mumbai or Delhi \u2013 yet this is a city to love for the energy and humour and generosity of the people. My guide to the city is Indian food writer Colonel Rajan Bali. We set out for lunch or dinner, the colonel in the lead, each of his first few strides accompanied by a clap of his hands. Such were the games-master encouragements of my youth: come on chaps \u2026So onward and upward to Sikkim, land of spring where rhododendrons and primulas paint high valleys and the magic peaks of Mount Kanchendzonga shimmer in sunshine. Sikkim's women own themselves and wave and shout and laugh as I pass. Brightly dressed pickers speckle tea gardens. Wisps of cloud curl through pine forest. I ride at dawn and pray beside Khecheopalri Lake, follow friends in their jeep up a military road from Lachung to the snow line: these are my memories. By this stage I have met many people, I am befriended by all ages, my own is irrelevant, and I have found it is an expanding friendship that directs me onward. You must visit so and so. They're expecting you.So it is in Assam. Here I discover the tranquillity of the raja's 19th-century compound in the small town of Abhayapuri; the gateway town of Guwahati, one of India's fastest growing cities; and the Kaziranga national park, where black rhino waddle in baggy bloomers of armour plate. All I need is a last hurrah ...I am warned that the road over the mountains to Tawang in Arunachal Pradesh is bad. I can handle it. The road climbs first through clouded forest, visibility 15 metres. I halt at a tiny tin-shack teahouse. Two inebriated young tribal police with big guns demand a kiss. They give me a peck on the cheek and I flee. After a night's sleep at Dirang I face the Sela Pass, the high route into the Tawang valley, once part of Tibet. Bits of road have fallen down the mountain. Bits of mountain have fallen on the road. Wind blasts a chilling cold off the snow peaks. Old fool, frightened of heights, don't look down. I reach the top at 4,180m and am too exhausted to dismount. Yet the descent is glorious, the climate changing from late winter through spring to early summer as I wind my way down. A last climb to Tawang town and clouds close in. Thankfully there are places to stay, interesting food to eat, the monastery to visit. Rain falls continuously for five days, stretches of road turn to deep liquid mud. The bike has no chance here. A 4x4 pickup is the only solution. After a final dinner with much beer with the military commandant on Assam's border, two soldiers escort me to bed and my journey is done.What have I learned? That I am no longer a teenager. But what the heck? Go for it, grandpa. Go for it. This is living. I'm already back on the road \u2026 I have just started a trip through California and Mexico and I'm planning to be in Nigeria in February for my 78th.Check out Simon Gandolfi's travels at simongandolfi.com. See Simon's video of his India trip above.Blazing Trails Tours (01902 894009, blazingtrailstours.com) has two-week motorbike holidays to various regions of India, including Rajasthan, Goa, Kerala and the Himalayas. Prices range from \u00a31,499 to \u00a32,650 and include bike (usually a 350cc Enfield), mechanical back-up, medical and luggage-carrying support and B&B accommodation but not flights. In Delhi, Lalli Motorbike Exports (+91 11 2875 0869, lallisingh.com) rents 500cc Royal Enfields from around \u00a3235 per month.", "tags": ["India holidays", "Road trips", "Travel"], "title": "Round India by motorbike"},{"date": "2010-09-07T09:05:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The Indian \"homestay\" experience has grown from strength to strength since the idea first emerged in Kerala, a decade or so ago. Now there are homestay tours and specialist agencies for the many hospitable families offering modestly priced accommodation in a variety of homes from city apartments to plantation houses. The majority are in the far north or the far south (Delhi, Rajasthan, Kerala), but the idea is spreading into other states. As a general rule, they are middle-class houses, largely run by the active retired professionals, though there are younger, or poorer, families among homestay hosts. Website galleries proudly feature pictures of \"European-style toilets\"; they often promise safe drinking water, station and airport pick-ups, drinks in the lounge among the family portraits. Some simply offer homely bed and breakfast while others veer towards the boutique hotel (which is reflected in the price), but the ones to look for are those that invite you to join the family, sample home-cooked regional food and explore the suburbs, hilltops and backwaters of those untouristy corners of India you might never otherwise see.The former home of the Maharajah of Sirohi, this mansion of a townhouse is close to Civil Lines, in the thick of Old Delhi, but only two metro stops from Chandni Chowk (three from Connaught Circus). Beyond the gates, a private drive leads up to a grand entrance. It's big on ornate fireplaces, chandeliers, carved hardwood, bits of Hindu temple (the owner, the amiable Ashok Sahdev, collects antiques). For guests there's a choice of two standard doubles and two suites, all with bathrooms, air-con and cable TV, plus the run of the communal rooms - including a cocktail lounge with bar where you can chat over G&Ts. They serve up sit-down meals, buffets, barbecues, picnics, canap\u00e9s and even room service. And a big plus is the lovely urban garden \u2013 a world away from the mayhem of the Indian capital.\u2022 From \u00a347 a night; homeandhospitality.co.uk.Vikram is a retired air force officer; Paaro is descended from the Rajput aristocracy and she has her own clothing company (kaftans and vegetable-dyed cottons). Their home is a suburban villa to the west of Jaipur; a series of airy, open-plan living spaces arranged around a flower-filled atrium; marble floors, a roof terrace, antique-modern furnishings, two guest bedrooms with a private lounge and a self-contained cottage in the garden. Paaro can organise cookery demonstrations, Hindi lessons, yoga classes, or a visit to her clothing factory. Or you can just hang out in the garden on lawns dotted with fruit trees (papaya, pomegranate, custard apple) and organise your next outing (the Ranawats have family all over Rajasthan).\u2022 From \u00a326 a night; homeandhospitality.co.uk.Set in a quiet residential area, the house has a bowling-green lawn, geraniums spilling out of window boxes and views of the Shivalik hills - this city in the Doon Valley is the capital of Uttarakhand and makes a handy stopover en route from Delhi to the Himalayan National Park. After settling into your homely room, Mr Mehra, a retired wool processing specialist, wheels out the drinks trolley (whisky, anyone?), while his wife hands around her apparently famous snacks (try the tandoori chicken or the lamb brain kebabs). From the balcony you can see the misty forests of Mussoorie - the so-called Queen of hill stations. You can walk there in three hours or, for a modest fee, borrow the Mehras' car and driver.\u2022 From \u00a327 a night; homeandhospitality.co.uk.This smart city bolthole in south Delhi's Defence Colony is home to well-travelled couple Arun and Suman Khanna (the Colonel takes its name from Arun's Indian army father). Three bright guest rooms offer clean-cut decor and all mod-cons (marble bathrooms, Wi-Fi, air-con, cable TV and hospitality trays). There are balconies to sit out on, views of the city, staff to look after you (all meals are provided on request), plus the help and hospitality of your charming hosts (Arun is particularly up on round-Delhi cycling routes). Shops, markets, restaurants and the Humayun tomb, a World Heritage site, are all within walking distance.\u2022 From \u00a357 a night; colonelsretreat.com (also mahindrahomestays.com).Jamshed and Ayesha Madon's lovely Goan house sits in lush tropical gardens in a quiet hamlet roughly halfway between the market town of Mapusa and Baga beach. Jamshed, an ex-merchant mariner, and Ayesha, a former journalist, built the traditional-style house after moving south from Mumbai to start a new life. They now run a successful Italian restaurant, J&A's in Baga; they have a young son, eight-year-old Zal, a family of dogs and cats and three cool, spacious guest rooms - two in the house and one in a self-contained cottage in the garden. All are furnished with snazzy modern bathrooms and antique beds. Relax on the verandah or the sala (the Madons' living room), enjoy simple, homemade lunches such as curries, rice and salads, help yourself to a drink from the honesty bar, or head for the beach (a 15-minute drive). A swimming pool is planned for later this year.\u2022 From \u00a360 a night; capellagoa.com.This isn't one homestay, but a whole community of them \u2013 a choice of 14 in all, spread across six high-altitude villages all in the isolated Pin Valley, set against the frosted peaks of the Himalayas (Kibber, one of the world's highest villages, stands 4,500m above sea level). As homestays go, these mud-and-brick dwellings are a bit rougher than most (instead of bathrooms you get buckets of hot water, and the toilets are composting squats) but the guest rooms \u2013 one a household - are clean, and colourful, furnished with rugs and folksy fabrics. Aside from home-cooked Spitian cuisine (momos perhaps, or noodle soup), you get rugged scenery, invigorating mountain air, smiling faces and the odd yak safari. Not only will you step into a way of life in this Bhuddist community that hasn't really changed for centuries, but you will also help to keep it going.\u2022 Rooms from \u00a335 a night, including meals and a guide; mahindrahomestays.com.At Kuttanad, a tranquil corner of the Keralan backwaters, this \"heritage homestay\" is the 150-year-old home of a Syrian Christian family, Chackochan Edayady (\"Mr Chacko\") and his wife Salimma. Although both are academics (he is a professor of pharmacy; she teaches chemistry), they still run the family farm, a few watery acres of paddy and coconut palms just off the River Pampa. A traditional Keralan granary house (carved wood, a wraparound verandah, a pagoda-like tiled roof), provides three guest rooms (two are air-conditioned); and the food is fresh, homely and plentiful. Visit the magnificent St Mary's Forane church at Pulinconnoo, meet the locals, potter about in a country boat, or take a backwater trip to, say, Alappuzha (12 miles away).From a \u00a3100 a double, full board; nelpura.com, +91 477 2702336 (also keralaconnections.co.uk, +44 (0)1892 724913).In the heart of rubber country (between the hot coastal plains and the high tea gardens of the Western Ghats), George and Anju Abraham's 1950s house looks more Florida than Kerala - all Art Deco curves and decks of concrete \u2013 but what it offers is a taste of traditional Indian plantation life. Set in a tropical garden, peeking at the Mundakayam Valley through slender rubber trees, the bungalow has two large, simply furnished guest rooms, whirling ceiling fans, wicker chairs on shaded verandahs. George's family has farmed here for generations and he's keen to show you around: the Pullakaya River, the village rubber factory, Mundakayam's colonial-era planters' club. Dine en famille, while Anju bustles in and out with plate after plate of wonderful food: Appams with mild vegetable stew, fish moily, meat-ball curry, banana fry, fresh passion fruit juice (home grown). You can nip into the kitchen and see how it's done.\u2022 From \u00a359 a night; mahindrahomestays.com, +44 (0)203 140 8422 or stayhomz.com/evergreen.htm, +91 48 28 28431.In the Wayanad District, a belt of rainforest in the northern Keralan highlands, Glenora is one of those homestays for whom success has meant a push upmarket - but that doesn't dim the quality of the experience. Home to the hospitable Rajagopal family, and registered as a \"farm tourism provider\", the house is set in 90 acres of coffee, pepper, betel nut, lime, ginger, guava and avocado among other fruit and spices. As well as three light, well-furnished rooms in the house, there are two new cottages on stilts (each of the latter has two balconies overlooking the plantation \u2013 birds, monkeys, foliage and not another house in sight). Activities include trekking, jeep safaris, badminton and trips to Sunrise Valley (less than a mile away), Meenmutty Falls or the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary.\u2022 B&B from \u00a345 a night; glenorahomestay.com, +91 4936 217550/217450 (also mahindrahomestays.com).In the Sindhudurg region of southern Maharashtra, this rustic, adobe-style home offers two guest rooms opening on to a wide verandah that overlooks Ammu and Ashish Padgaonkar's farm - 12 acres of cashews, pineapples and coconut palms. It's off the beaten track, a bit of real India, but they offer hot water, proper loos and a great location. To the east is Amboli, the little hill station in the Sahyadri hills, to the west, the beaches of Vengurla - both are less than 20 miles away. Hop on a train at nearby Sawantwadi station (on the mainline Konkan Railway), and you can be in northern Goa in half an hour (the state border is some 10 miles south). Or just stay put; try a local bullock-cart ride, kcik back in a Nandan Farms hammock or enjoy Ammu's excellent cooking (fried mackerel, say, or Malvani-style chicken curry).\u2022 Doubles from around \u00a336 a night, full board; responsibletravel.com.", "tags": ["India holidays", "Hotels", "Asia", "Travel", "Kerala holidays", "Delhi holidays", "Goa holidays", "Top 10s"], "title": "Ten top homestays in India"},{"date": "2010-07-16T12:49:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "It may look like a melted British Rail sign but it's hoped that a new symbol for the Indian rupee will signal India's growing economic strength \u2011 and it will be coming soon to a keyboard near you.The winning design was selected by the Indian cabinet yesterday from a shortlist of five following a national competition.Measures are already afoot to have the rupee sign declared a computer standard, meaning it could join currencies such as the pound, dollar, euro and yen on keyboards within two years.\"The distinct symbol denotes the robustness of the Indian economy,\" India's information minister, Ambika Soni, said.References to sums in rupees currently involve spelling out the word (as is the case in the Guardian's style guide) or giving it the abbreviation Rs or INRs to distinguish it from other Asian countries that use rupees or variations thereof.\"Once accepted, it will stand clear from the clutter of currencies that call themselves rupee or the rupiah,\" India's Telegraph reported.The winning symbol was the work of Udaya Kumar, a lecture in design at the Indian Institute of Technology in Mumbai. Speaking to the Indian news website Rediff.com he said: \"My design is based on the tricolour, with two lines at the top and white space in between. I wanted the symbol for the rupee to represent the Indian flag. It is a perfect blend of Indian and Roman letters: a capital 'R' and Devanagari 'ra' which represents rupiya, to appeal to international audiences and Indian audiences.\"Michael Johnson, a director at the award-winning London-based design consultancy johnson banks, said the new symbol fitted with other currency signs but lacked imagination.\"I think it's a B or B plus. Most currency symbols follow an established route now \u2011 E for euro, Y for yen, now R for rupee. You could argue that a dynamic emerging economy could have gone for something more unusual and got away with it \u2011 I think in the end conservative voices prevailed.\"", "tags": ["India", "World news", "Currencies"], "title": "India unveils new rupee symbol"},{"date": "2010-07-16T06:25:10Z", "country": "india", "content": "The Times's India correspondent, Jeremy Page, has joined the exodus from the newspaper, triggering a reshuffle at its foreign desk.Sources on the paper have confirmed that Page will leave prior to what had been a planned move to the role of China correspondent. According to his colleagues he has landed a job at the Wall Street Journal.The Middle East correspondent, James Hider, is being lined up for the post of India correspondent, according to Times sources. The China correspondent, Jane McCartney, is returning from the country soon to join the foreign desk. It is not clear who will replace her in Beijing.The foreign desk changes come as the Times goes through a round of about 20 compulsory redundancies, on top of 40 voluntary departures. About 10 new staff will also be hired to fill posts vacated by some of those taking voluntary redundancy.James Harding, the Times editor, recently warned the paper's staff that it was making \"unsustainable\" losses.Neither Page nor Hider had responded to requests for comment from MediaGuardian.co.uk.A Times spokeswoman was unavailable to comment at the time of publication.\u2022 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.\u2022 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".", "tags": ["The Times", "National newspapers", "Newspapers", "Newspapers & magazines", "Media downturn", "Media"], "title": "India correspondent leaves the Times"},{"date": "2010-09-17T08:59:31Z", "country": "india", "content": "\u2022 If you're planning on taking a substantial number of train journeys, it will work out much cheaper to buy an Indrail Pass from Shankar Dandapani at SD Enterprises who represents Indian Railways in the UK. If you can, stop by his office in Wembley for face-to-face guidance. Shankar has incredible knowledge of the railways and is worth his weight in gold. 103, Wembley Park Drive, Wembley, Middlesex; +44 (0)208 9033411, indiarail.co.uk , info@indiarail.co.uk\u2022 Make reservations as far in advance as you can. Unless you're taking a short-distance passenger train, arriving at the station and hopping on is not an option as seats are booked up to 90 days in advance.\u2022 Book tickets at the station's foreign tourist desk if there is one. Check indianrail.gov.in to find out which cities have one. Many trains offer a small number of \"tourist quota\" tickets even if the train is fully booked for lndian residents. Anusha Thawani on the first floor of New Delhi station is excellent and goes out of her way to find last-minute seats.\u2022 Learn the lingo. You might find your ticket says \"RAC\", which means reserved against cancellation. If someone else cancels a reserved ticket before departure, you will then be promoted to a confirmed seat or berth. You can still travel with an RAC ticket and will be given a seat, but you may not be offered a berth at night. \"WL\" means waitlisted, so you should check the sheet of paper stuck by the carriage door to see if your seat is confirmed.To check routes, names and times indiarailinfo.com is an excellent site that doesn't crash under heavy traffic and offers clear, comprehensive information.\u2022 Never accept tickets from touts or visit side-street agents claiming they will find you a confirmed seat. Indian railways has one central computerised system and it's safest to do all bookings at a station counter.\u2022 You can buy tickets online at the official government-sponsored website irctc.co.in, but it is a bit confusing to navigate. Most people find cleartrip.com a lot easier and worth the small extra booking fee.", "tags": ["India holidays", "Rail travel", "Travel websites", "Travel"], "title": "Tips on travelling by train in India"},{"date": "2010-08-31T14:59:46Z", "country": "india", "content": "India's supreme court has reopened the Bhopal toxic gas leak case in response to a government petition seeking harsher punishment for officials from Union Carbide, the chemical company responsible.In a decision that delighted the long-running campaign for justice by the survivors of the 1984 gas disaster, India's highest court today agreed to review its earlier decision that reduced the crime from one of \"culpable homicide\" to \"a rash and negligent act\".Because of the lighter charges, seven Union Carbide officials received just two-year prison sentences when the court case finally concluded in June this year \u2013 25 years after the accident, which the government says killed around 3,500 people. Activists say at least 22,000 died in the immediate aftermath and the following years.The sentences led to a national outcry, forcing Delhi to tell the federal police, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), to ask the court for more stringent charges with punishment of up to 10 years in jail.\"For the first time after 26 years of struggle and suffering, suddenly we see a ray of hope thanks to the supreme court decision,\" Balkrishna Namdeo, a gas leak victim, said on television from Bhopal. \"Now there is hope that we will get justice.\"However, former Union Carbide chairman Keshub Mahindra and the six other senior officials will be given an opportunity to try to convince the three judges that they should not face more serious charges before a final decision is issued.Because of the length of time taken for the existing sentences to be handed down, there is concern among survivors that they might face many more years of legal wrangling.Earlier this month another bench of the supreme court likened the delay to the fictional Jarndyce v Jarndyce case in Charles Dickens' Bleak House.\"In that case the matter dragged on for 100 years; several generations had died,\" the judges said. \"The descendants, the advocates and the judges were not aware what the case was about, but they were fighting it. India is also becoming like that. Cases keep dragging.\"By the time the Bhopal case is decided, the judges added, \"the victims will all be dead\".CBI counsel Devadutt Kamat said once the supreme court decided on the petition it could issue orders for an \"expeditious hearing\".Kamat also said the demand for higher compensation for Bhopal's victims was a separate issue that was being examined by the ministry of chemicals.An Amnesty study showed that 7,000 people perished within days of the release of methyl isocyanate gas at the pesticide plant on 3 December 1984, and a further 15,000 died later from exposure to the gas. Countless others suffered lifelong damage to their health.", "tags": ["Bhopal", "India", "World news"], "title": "India reopens Bhopal toxic gas leak case"},{"date": "2010-08-30T18:15:05Z", "country": "india", "content": "The Indian government has lifted a threat to block certain BlackBerry communication services following moves by the technology firm Research in Motion that could allow the country's security authorities greater access to snoop on messages.Stepping back from the brink of a crackdown, India's ministry of home affairs said RIM had made \"certain proposals for lawful access by law enforcement agencies and these would be operationalised immediately\". It did not offer any detail on these concessions and RIM, which is based in Toronto, declined to comment.RIM has been sucked into a series of showdowns with governments in Asia and the Middle East over the level of privacy provided by its ubiquitous handheld devices.India had previously set a deadline of the end of August for the Canadian technology company to make corporate emails and instant messaging more accessible to its security forces.Following RIM's apparent concessions, the Indian government said today the situation would be reviewed in 60 days' time. It added that the country's telecoms ministry was examining whether all the subcontinent's BlackBerry communications could be routed through a server physically located in India.The Indian government's disquiet over BlackBerrys is thought to date back to a series of co-ordinated bombings and shootings in Mumbai in November 2008 that killed more than 150 people. Officials suspect that terrorists involved in the attacks communicated using encrypted messages on the devices.Striking the right balance between privacy and national security has become a significant headache for RIM, which has faced similar threats of a ban on Blackberry services in Saudi Arabia, Indonesia and the United Arab Emirates.", "tags": ["BlackBerry", "Mobile phones", "Technology", "India", "World news", "Canada", "Business", "Americas"], "title": "India lifts threat of block on BlackBerrys"},{"date": "2010-09-17T23:05:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "This is a confession. I've been at it again \u2013 travelling, and on a motorcycle. Though only a small one, it feels quite sinful.I am 77. I should know better, grow up, act my age, potter sedately round a golf course in an electric buggy. But, no, I choose to spend six months exploring the Indian subcontinent.My wife, of course, is pleased to have me out of the house. Men, when they don't work five days a week, occupy too much space. We have irritating habits \u2013 not putting the seat back down, leaving dirty socks and underpants on the floor, failing to put the milk and butter back in the refrigerator.What do my sons think? The older two, in their 40s, merely shrug; Dad's acting true to form. But Joshua and Jedediah are university age. Ancient Dad playing Che Guevara is an embarrassment. Their gap-year friends message me: \"Hi, Simon, have you left yet? We're in the Andaman Islands.\"To which Joshua posts: \"Oh, my God, my 78-year-old dad on Facebook.\"I reply: \"Only 76, please. I will celebrate my 77th birthday in Goa.\"Fellow oldies corner me and ask questions. How are your preparations going? What route will you take?What should I answer? That planning is time ill used, time in which to grow nervous, fearful even, relive two heart attacks suffered 15 years ago in Guatemala's highlands or dwell on a more recent memory of a truck smashing my leg the first day of my ride north from Tierra del Fuego \u2013 which meant five weeks in plaster and having to carry crutches on the bike all the way to New York. So, no, no planning, no wiggling a toe in a swimming pool. Leap is the only way. Pack the bare necessities: six months of heart medication, good shoes for meeting rajas and maharajas (mine are 20-year-old Church's) and wear one of those multi-pocketed waistcoats to avoid mislaying the essentials.I haven't visited India in 40 years. Delhi is a shock. When I was last here only sadhus talked out loud to themselves. Now everyone does it, rich or poor, old or young, all yakking into mobile phones. Fewer cows wander the streets, more cars \u2013 and myriad cab and tuk-tuk drivers practise unmetered highway robbery. Traffic circles and intersections are reminiscent of first world war aerial combat; every pilot picks his own line of attack \u2013 go for the gaps or lose your tail.Am I scared? Yes, obviously.Humid windless winter days shroud the Mogul splendour and Victorian pomposity in a veil of blue exhaust fumes. Wise travellers wear surgical face masks. But oh, the food! I head for the old Muslim quarter beside the Jama Masjid mosque for divine kebabs \u2014 and being an offal lover rejoice at delicately spiced lamb's brain.Forty years have passed since I last sought wisdom from a Sufi teacher at the shrine of Nizamuddin Auliya, the Sufi saint. His son teaches now the same heretical message: God doesn't mind which route you take to him, only that you arrive.South next, to Agra, astride Honda India's latest 125 cafe racer (model name Stunner), fire-engine red and comically unsuitable as the mount for an overweight antique. This is a land of flat dusty fields stretching to a mirage-quivering horizon. Drivers respond neither to law nor logic.Each mud-wall village is a chaotic marketplace, full of handcarts, pedal-bikes, rickshaws, cows, goats, pigs, sheep, the occasional donkey or elephant. I pass men in white dhotis, women in brilliantly coloured saris. Tractors, trucks and buses barge past with sirens blaring where I creep timidly, British interloper guilt-ridden by childhood memories of the Empire. I stop for tea and a crowd converges \u2013 though the bike is of greater interest than the Ancient Brit.Agra's Taj Mahal is a grotesque monument to the male ego: marvel at the wealth and power with which I immortalise my love. I prefer to cross the Yamuna river to a tomb of modest size but of exquisite delicacy, where the parents of Nur Jahan lie side by side, lovers holding hands for eternity. Such tenderness and beauty bring me close to tears. Everywhere I go, people are keen to talk. I fall into conversation in the great courtyard of the Red Fort with the president of a Delhi-based American software corporation. He spends his days facing a computer monitor yet loathes computers. Computers destroy the family, he says. But they are the main link to mine while I'm travelling.At Akbar I visit the red sandstone imperial complex of Fatehpur Sikri . \"Do you find this beautiful?\" demands a small aggressive Indian gentleman as I admire the intricate carvings. \"No, no, this is not beautiful,\" he says. \"Have you seen Hampton Court? There is beauty.\" So he continues until, in desperation, I ask of his companion, a tall younger man in short sleeves and trainers: \"Do you have to listen to this?\"\"Listen? I've been listening for six weeks. He's my dad,\" he replies, accent indelibly marked by an English public school and the home counties.Jaipur, rose city of Rajasthan, is hosting a literary festival when I arrive. Famous writers bask in five-star luxury at the maharajah's palace; bulge-bellied Indian movie actors glide self-importantly among their worshipers; meanwhile the poor sleep and breed and cook and defecate on the sidewalk.In Jodhpur I admire the art deco splendour of the Umaid Bhawan Palace \u2013 347 rooms, 15 years in the building, the charitable maharajah's make-work project for his starving subjects. Why not a city sewage system?Pushkar is a haven for pony-tailed relics of the psychedelic 1970s still searching for enlightenment in a cloud of smoke. Staff and guests sit glaze-eyed in the hotel garden. Stars sparkle. The holy lake is empty.Gazelle gaze as I stop beneath a tree on the desert road to Jaisalmer. Here, below the golden walls of the fort, I watch two Sikh brothers rebuild a 1961 Royal Enfield Bullet motorbike while a craftsman tailors me a bag in camel hide. Keep the myriad fortresses and palaces; this is the Rajasthan I love: rich gummy scents of the desert, dunes trembling in the heat, the lifted upper lip of a camel as it nibbles the few thin green leaves on a thorn tree; scrawny goats perched on a branch. I halt in a village and loll on a string bed in the shade, sipping sweet milk tea.Leaving the desert aridity behind, I head south to Mumbai and then to Goa, the winter goal of our 1960s overland trips. This is a green land of forested hills, milk-coffee rivers, coconut palm and rice paddy. Immense rain trees offer shade. The sea perfumes the air with salt and iodine. Menus feature fresh fish and prawns. I was warned Goa had been ruined. But not for me, nor for the thousands of tourists who bask in the sun. The sand is as golden, Goans as welcoming. The bungalow I rented on Calangute 40 years ago has become a beach bar. I luxuriate at the Taj Hotel's cliff-top resort. A band plays me awake and the front desk manager calls, \"Happy 77th birthday, grandfather. Up you get. We're going to give you a wonderful day.\"Then I'm heading south through Kerala's magical canals and lagoons to the very tip of India at Kanyakumari, Tamil Nadu, to go paddling at sunset, one foot in the Indian Ocean, one in the Bay of Bengal. My journey is half way done.Bad experiences? Not even a puncture. However the heat is intense. Oven-baked fields wait for the monsoon rains. I race north up the east coast to Kolkata, but with Sikkim and Assam as my goal, leave at dawn and ride all day. Kodaikanal, Mamallapuram and Puri are way stations, and I pause for a day to explore Orissa \u2013 the byways of its littoral, the emerald paddies, creeks and ponds carpeted with lilies and water hyacinth where herons, white egrets and water buffalo stand. Straw-roofed huts are reflected in a temple's water tank.In Kolkata I am banned, to the embarrassment of my Indian hosts, from the bar and dining room of the city's most prestigious social club. My social sin? Wearing an Indian shirt (collarless). Poverty in Kolkata may be marginally more obscene than in Mumbai or Delhi \u2013 yet this is a city to love for the energy and humour and generosity of the people. My guide to the city is Indian food writer Colonel Rajan Bali. We set out for lunch or dinner, the colonel in the lead, each of his first few strides accompanied by a clap of his hands. Such were the games-master encouragements of my youth: come on chaps \u2026So onward and upward to Sikkim, land of spring where rhododendrons and primulas paint high valleys and the magic peaks of Mount Kanchendzonga shimmer in sunshine. Sikkim's women own themselves and wave and shout and laugh as I pass. Brightly dressed pickers speckle tea gardens. Wisps of cloud curl through pine forest. I ride at dawn and pray beside Khecheopalri Lake, follow friends in their jeep up a military road from Lachung to the snow line: these are my memories. By this stage I have met many people, I am befriended by all ages, my own is irrelevant, and I have found it is an expanding friendship that directs me onward. You must visit so and so. They're expecting you.So it is in Assam. Here I discover the tranquillity of the raja's 19th-century compound in the small town of Abhayapuri; the gateway town of Guwahati, one of India's fastest growing cities; and the Kaziranga national park, where black rhino waddle in baggy bloomers of armour plate. All I need is a last hurrah ...I am warned that the road over the mountains to Tawang in Arunachal Pradesh is bad. I can handle it. The road climbs first through clouded forest, visibility 15 metres. I halt at a tiny tin-shack teahouse. Two inebriated young tribal police with big guns demand a kiss. They give me a peck on the cheek and I flee. After a night's sleep at Dirang I face the Sela Pass, the high route into the Tawang valley, once part of Tibet. Bits of road have fallen down the mountain. Bits of mountain have fallen on the road. Wind blasts a chilling cold off the snow peaks. Old fool, frightened of heights, don't look down. I reach the top at 4,180m and am too exhausted to dismount. Yet the descent is glorious, the climate changing from late winter through spring to early summer as I wind my way down. A last climb to Tawang town and clouds close in. Thankfully there are places to stay, interesting food to eat, the monastery to visit. Rain falls continuously for five days, stretches of road turn to deep liquid mud. The bike has no chance here. A 4x4 pickup is the only solution. After a final dinner with much beer with the military commandant on Assam's border, two soldiers escort me to bed and my journey is done.What have I learned? That I am no longer a teenager. But what the heck? Go for it, grandpa. Go for it. This is living. I'm already back on the road \u2026 I have just started a trip through California and Mexico and I'm planning to be in Nigeria in February for my 78th.Check out Simon Gandolfi's travels at simongandolfi.com. See Simon's video of his India trip above.Blazing Trails Tours (01902 894009, blazingtrailstours.com) has two-week motorbike holidays to various regions of India, including Rajasthan, Goa, Kerala and the Himalayas. Prices range from \u00a31,499 to \u00a32,650 and include bike (usually a 350cc Enfield), mechanical back-up, medical and luggage-carrying support and B&B accommodation but not flights. In Delhi, Lalli Motorbike Exports (+91 11 2875 0869, lallisingh.com) rents 500cc Royal Enfields from around \u00a3235 per month.", "tags": ["India holidays", "Road trips", "Travel"], "title": "Round India by motorbike"},{"date": "2010-09-07T09:05:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The Indian \"homestay\" experience has grown from strength to strength since the idea first emerged in Kerala, a decade or so ago. Now there are homestay tours and specialist agencies for the many hospitable families offering modestly priced accommodation in a variety of homes from city apartments to plantation houses. The majority are in the far north or the far south (Delhi, Rajasthan, Kerala), but the idea is spreading into other states. As a general rule, they are middle-class houses, largely run by the active retired professionals, though there are younger, or poorer, families among homestay hosts. Website galleries proudly feature pictures of \"European-style toilets\"; they often promise safe drinking water, station and airport pick-ups, drinks in the lounge among the family portraits. Some simply offer homely bed and breakfast while others veer towards the boutique hotel (which is reflected in the price), but the ones to look for are those that invite you to join the family, sample home-cooked regional food and explore the suburbs, hilltops and backwaters of those untouristy corners of India you might never otherwise see.The former home of the Maharajah of Sirohi, this mansion of a townhouse is close to Civil Lines, in the thick of Old Delhi, but only two metro stops from Chandni Chowk (three from Connaught Circus). Beyond the gates, a private drive leads up to a grand entrance. It's big on ornate fireplaces, chandeliers, carved hardwood, bits of Hindu temple (the owner, the amiable Ashok Sahdev, collects antiques). For guests there's a choice of two standard doubles and two suites, all with bathrooms, air-con and cable TV, plus the run of the communal rooms - including a cocktail lounge with bar where you can chat over G&Ts. They serve up sit-down meals, buffets, barbecues, picnics, canap\u00e9s and even room service. And a big plus is the lovely urban garden \u2013 a world away from the mayhem of the Indian capital.\u2022 From \u00a347 a night; homeandhospitality.co.uk.Vikram is a retired air force officer; Paaro is descended from the Rajput aristocracy and she has her own clothing company (kaftans and vegetable-dyed cottons). Their home is a suburban villa to the west of Jaipur; a series of airy, open-plan living spaces arranged around a flower-filled atrium; marble floors, a roof terrace, antique-modern furnishings, two guest bedrooms with a private lounge and a self-contained cottage in the garden. Paaro can organise cookery demonstrations, Hindi lessons, yoga classes, or a visit to her clothing factory. Or you can just hang out in the garden on lawns dotted with fruit trees (papaya, pomegranate, custard apple) and organise your next outing (the Ranawats have family all over Rajasthan).\u2022 From \u00a326 a night; homeandhospitality.co.uk.Set in a quiet residential area, the house has a bowling-green lawn, geraniums spilling out of window boxes and views of the Shivalik hills - this city in the Doon Valley is the capital of Uttarakhand and makes a handy stopover en route from Delhi to the Himalayan National Park. After settling into your homely room, Mr Mehra, a retired wool processing specialist, wheels out the drinks trolley (whisky, anyone?), while his wife hands around her apparently famous snacks (try the tandoori chicken or the lamb brain kebabs). From the balcony you can see the misty forests of Mussoorie - the so-called Queen of hill stations. You can walk there in three hours or, for a modest fee, borrow the Mehras' car and driver.\u2022 From \u00a327 a night; homeandhospitality.co.uk.This smart city bolthole in south Delhi's Defence Colony is home to well-travelled couple Arun and Suman Khanna (the Colonel takes its name from Arun's Indian army father). Three bright guest rooms offer clean-cut decor and all mod-cons (marble bathrooms, Wi-Fi, air-con, cable TV and hospitality trays). There are balconies to sit out on, views of the city, staff to look after you (all meals are provided on request), plus the help and hospitality of your charming hosts (Arun is particularly up on round-Delhi cycling routes). Shops, markets, restaurants and the Humayun tomb, a World Heritage site, are all within walking distance.\u2022 From \u00a357 a night; colonelsretreat.com (also mahindrahomestays.com).Jamshed and Ayesha Madon's lovely Goan house sits in lush tropical gardens in a quiet hamlet roughly halfway between the market town of Mapusa and Baga beach. Jamshed, an ex-merchant mariner, and Ayesha, a former journalist, built the traditional-style house after moving south from Mumbai to start a new life. They now run a successful Italian restaurant, J&A's in Baga; they have a young son, eight-year-old Zal, a family of dogs and cats and three cool, spacious guest rooms - two in the house and one in a self-contained cottage in the garden. All are furnished with snazzy modern bathrooms and antique beds. Relax on the verandah or the sala (the Madons' living room), enjoy simple, homemade lunches such as curries, rice and salads, help yourself to a drink from the honesty bar, or head for the beach (a 15-minute drive). A swimming pool is planned for later this year.\u2022 From \u00a360 a night; capellagoa.com.This isn't one homestay, but a whole community of them \u2013 a choice of 14 in all, spread across six high-altitude villages all in the isolated Pin Valley, set against the frosted peaks of the Himalayas (Kibber, one of the world's highest villages, stands 4,500m above sea level). As homestays go, these mud-and-brick dwellings are a bit rougher than most (instead of bathrooms you get buckets of hot water, and the toilets are composting squats) but the guest rooms \u2013 one a household - are clean, and colourful, furnished with rugs and folksy fabrics. Aside from home-cooked Spitian cuisine (momos perhaps, or noodle soup), you get rugged scenery, invigorating mountain air, smiling faces and the odd yak safari. Not only will you step into a way of life in this Bhuddist community that hasn't really changed for centuries, but you will also help to keep it going.\u2022 Rooms from \u00a335 a night, including meals and a guide; mahindrahomestays.com.At Kuttanad, a tranquil corner of the Keralan backwaters, this \"heritage homestay\" is the 150-year-old home of a Syrian Christian family, Chackochan Edayady (\"Mr Chacko\") and his wife Salimma. Although both are academics (he is a professor of pharmacy; she teaches chemistry), they still run the family farm, a few watery acres of paddy and coconut palms just off the River Pampa. A traditional Keralan granary house (carved wood, a wraparound verandah, a pagoda-like tiled roof), provides three guest rooms (two are air-conditioned); and the food is fresh, homely and plentiful. Visit the magnificent St Mary's Forane church at Pulinconnoo, meet the locals, potter about in a country boat, or take a backwater trip to, say, Alappuzha (12 miles away).From a \u00a3100 a double, full board; nelpura.com, +91 477 2702336 (also keralaconnections.co.uk, +44 (0)1892 724913).In the heart of rubber country (between the hot coastal plains and the high tea gardens of the Western Ghats), George and Anju Abraham's 1950s house looks more Florida than Kerala - all Art Deco curves and decks of concrete \u2013 but what it offers is a taste of traditional Indian plantation life. Set in a tropical garden, peeking at the Mundakayam Valley through slender rubber trees, the bungalow has two large, simply furnished guest rooms, whirling ceiling fans, wicker chairs on shaded verandahs. George's family has farmed here for generations and he's keen to show you around: the Pullakaya River, the village rubber factory, Mundakayam's colonial-era planters' club. Dine en famille, while Anju bustles in and out with plate after plate of wonderful food: Appams with mild vegetable stew, fish moily, meat-ball curry, banana fry, fresh passion fruit juice (home grown). You can nip into the kitchen and see how it's done.\u2022 From \u00a359 a night; mahindrahomestays.com, +44 (0)203 140 8422 or stayhomz.com/evergreen.htm, +91 48 28 28431.In the Wayanad District, a belt of rainforest in the northern Keralan highlands, Glenora is one of those homestays for whom success has meant a push upmarket - but that doesn't dim the quality of the experience. Home to the hospitable Rajagopal family, and registered as a \"farm tourism provider\", the house is set in 90 acres of coffee, pepper, betel nut, lime, ginger, guava and avocado among other fruit and spices. As well as three light, well-furnished rooms in the house, there are two new cottages on stilts (each of the latter has two balconies overlooking the plantation \u2013 birds, monkeys, foliage and not another house in sight). Activities include trekking, jeep safaris, badminton and trips to Sunrise Valley (less than a mile away), Meenmutty Falls or the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary.\u2022 B&B from \u00a345 a night; glenorahomestay.com, +91 4936 217550/217450 (also mahindrahomestays.com).In the Sindhudurg region of southern Maharashtra, this rustic, adobe-style home offers two guest rooms opening on to a wide verandah that overlooks Ammu and Ashish Padgaonkar's farm - 12 acres of cashews, pineapples and coconut palms. It's off the beaten track, a bit of real India, but they offer hot water, proper loos and a great location. To the east is Amboli, the little hill station in the Sahyadri hills, to the west, the beaches of Vengurla - both are less than 20 miles away. Hop on a train at nearby Sawantwadi station (on the mainline Konkan Railway), and you can be in northern Goa in half an hour (the state border is some 10 miles south). Or just stay put; try a local bullock-cart ride, kcik back in a Nandan Farms hammock or enjoy Ammu's excellent cooking (fried mackerel, say, or Malvani-style chicken curry).\u2022 Doubles from around \u00a336 a night, full board; responsibletravel.com.", "tags": ["India holidays", "Hotels", "Asia", "Travel", "Kerala holidays", "Delhi holidays", "Goa holidays", "Top 10s"], "title": "Ten top homestays in India"},{"date": "2010-07-16T12:49:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "It may look like a melted British Rail sign but it's hoped that a new symbol for the Indian rupee will signal India's growing economic strength \u2011 and it will be coming soon to a keyboard near you.The winning design was selected by the Indian cabinet yesterday from a shortlist of five following a national competition.Measures are already afoot to have the rupee sign declared a computer standard, meaning it could join currencies such as the pound, dollar, euro and yen on keyboards within two years.\"The distinct symbol denotes the robustness of the Indian economy,\" India's information minister, Ambika Soni, said.References to sums in rupees currently involve spelling out the word (as is the case in the Guardian's style guide) or giving it the abbreviation Rs or INRs to distinguish it from other Asian countries that use rupees or variations thereof.\"Once accepted, it will stand clear from the clutter of currencies that call themselves rupee or the rupiah,\" India's Telegraph reported.The winning symbol was the work of Udaya Kumar, a lecture in design at the Indian Institute of Technology in Mumbai. Speaking to the Indian news website Rediff.com he said: \"My design is based on the tricolour, with two lines at the top and white space in between. I wanted the symbol for the rupee to represent the Indian flag. It is a perfect blend of Indian and Roman letters: a capital 'R' and Devanagari 'ra' which represents rupiya, to appeal to international audiences and Indian audiences.\"Michael Johnson, a director at the award-winning London-based design consultancy johnson banks, said the new symbol fitted with other currency signs but lacked imagination.\"I think it's a B or B plus. Most currency symbols follow an established route now \u2011 E for euro, Y for yen, now R for rupee. You could argue that a dynamic emerging economy could have gone for something more unusual and got away with it \u2011 I think in the end conservative voices prevailed.\"", "tags": ["India", "World news", "Currencies"], "title": "India unveils new rupee symbol"},{"date": "2010-07-16T06:25:10Z", "country": "india", "content": "The Times's India correspondent, Jeremy Page, has joined the exodus from the newspaper, triggering a reshuffle at its foreign desk.Sources on the paper have confirmed that Page will leave prior to what had been a planned move to the role of China correspondent. According to his colleagues he has landed a job at the Wall Street Journal.The Middle East correspondent, James Hider, is being lined up for the post of India correspondent, according to Times sources. The China correspondent, Jane McCartney, is returning from the country soon to join the foreign desk. It is not clear who will replace her in Beijing.The foreign desk changes come as the Times goes through a round of about 20 compulsory redundancies, on top of 40 voluntary departures. About 10 new staff will also be hired to fill posts vacated by some of those taking voluntary redundancy.James Harding, the Times editor, recently warned the paper's staff that it was making \"unsustainable\" losses.Neither Page nor Hider had responded to requests for comment from MediaGuardian.co.uk.A Times spokeswoman was unavailable to comment at the time of publication.\u2022 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.\u2022 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".", "tags": ["The Times", "National newspapers", "Newspapers", "Newspapers & magazines", "Media downturn", "Media"], "title": "India correspondent leaves the Times"},{"date": "2010-09-17T08:59:31Z", "country": "india", "content": "\u2022 If you're planning on taking a substantial number of train journeys, it will work out much cheaper to buy an Indrail Pass from Shankar Dandapani at SD Enterprises who represents Indian Railways in the UK. If you can, stop by his office in Wembley for face-to-face guidance. Shankar has incredible knowledge of the railways and is worth his weight in gold. 103, Wembley Park Drive, Wembley, Middlesex; +44 (0)208 9033411, indiarail.co.uk , info@indiarail.co.uk\u2022 Make reservations as far in advance as you can. Unless you're taking a short-distance passenger train, arriving at the station and hopping on is not an option as seats are booked up to 90 days in advance.\u2022 Book tickets at the station's foreign tourist desk if there is one. Check indianrail.gov.in to find out which cities have one. Many trains offer a small number of \"tourist quota\" tickets even if the train is fully booked for lndian residents. Anusha Thawani on the first floor of New Delhi station is excellent and goes out of her way to find last-minute seats.\u2022 Learn the lingo. You might find your ticket says \"RAC\", which means reserved against cancellation. If someone else cancels a reserved ticket before departure, you will then be promoted to a confirmed seat or berth. You can still travel with an RAC ticket and will be given a seat, but you may not be offered a berth at night. \"WL\" means waitlisted, so you should check the sheet of paper stuck by the carriage door to see if your seat is confirmed.To check routes, names and times indiarailinfo.com is an excellent site that doesn't crash under heavy traffic and offers clear, comprehensive information.\u2022 Never accept tickets from touts or visit side-street agents claiming they will find you a confirmed seat. Indian railways has one central computerised system and it's safest to do all bookings at a station counter.\u2022 You can buy tickets online at the official government-sponsored website irctc.co.in, but it is a bit confusing to navigate. Most people find cleartrip.com a lot easier and worth the small extra booking fee.", "tags": ["India holidays", "Rail travel", "Travel websites", "Travel"], "title": "Tips on travelling by train in India"},{"date": "2010-08-31T14:59:46Z", "country": "india", "content": "India's supreme court has reopened the Bhopal toxic gas leak case in response to a government petition seeking harsher punishment for officials from Union Carbide, the chemical company responsible.In a decision that delighted the long-running campaign for justice by the survivors of the 1984 gas disaster, India's highest court today agreed to review its earlier decision that reduced the crime from one of \"culpable homicide\" to \"a rash and negligent act\".Because of the lighter charges, seven Union Carbide officials received just two-year prison sentences when the court case finally concluded in June this year \u2013 25 years after the accident, which the government says killed around 3,500 people. Activists say at least 22,000 died in the immediate aftermath and the following years.The sentences led to a national outcry, forcing Delhi to tell the federal police, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), to ask the court for more stringent charges with punishment of up to 10 years in jail.\"For the first time after 26 years of struggle and suffering, suddenly we see a ray of hope thanks to the supreme court decision,\" Balkrishna Namdeo, a gas leak victim, said on television from Bhopal. \"Now there is hope that we will get justice.\"However, former Union Carbide chairman Keshub Mahindra and the six other senior officials will be given an opportunity to try to convince the three judges that they should not face more serious charges before a final decision is issued.Because of the length of time taken for the existing sentences to be handed down, there is concern among survivors that they might face many more years of legal wrangling.Earlier this month another bench of the supreme court likened the delay to the fictional Jarndyce v Jarndyce case in Charles Dickens' Bleak House.\"In that case the matter dragged on for 100 years; several generations had died,\" the judges said. \"The descendants, the advocates and the judges were not aware what the case was about, but they were fighting it. India is also becoming like that. Cases keep dragging.\"By the time the Bhopal case is decided, the judges added, \"the victims will all be dead\".CBI counsel Devadutt Kamat said once the supreme court decided on the petition it could issue orders for an \"expeditious hearing\".Kamat also said the demand for higher compensation for Bhopal's victims was a separate issue that was being examined by the ministry of chemicals.An Amnesty study showed that 7,000 people perished within days of the release of methyl isocyanate gas at the pesticide plant on 3 December 1984, and a further 15,000 died later from exposure to the gas. Countless others suffered lifelong damage to their health.", "tags": ["Bhopal", "India", "World news"], "title": "India reopens Bhopal toxic gas leak case"},{"date": "2010-08-30T18:15:05Z", "country": "india", "content": "The Indian government has lifted a threat to block certain BlackBerry communication services following moves by the technology firm Research in Motion that could allow the country's security authorities greater access to snoop on messages.Stepping back from the brink of a crackdown, India's ministry of home affairs said RIM had made \"certain proposals for lawful access by law enforcement agencies and these would be operationalised immediately\". It did not offer any detail on these concessions and RIM, which is based in Toronto, declined to comment.RIM has been sucked into a series of showdowns with governments in Asia and the Middle East over the level of privacy provided by its ubiquitous handheld devices.India had previously set a deadline of the end of August for the Canadian technology company to make corporate emails and instant messaging more accessible to its security forces.Following RIM's apparent concessions, the Indian government said today the situation would be reviewed in 60 days' time. It added that the country's telecoms ministry was examining whether all the subcontinent's BlackBerry communications could be routed through a server physically located in India.The Indian government's disquiet over BlackBerrys is thought to date back to a series of co-ordinated bombings and shootings in Mumbai in November 2008 that killed more than 150 people. Officials suspect that terrorists involved in the attacks communicated using encrypted messages on the devices.Striking the right balance between privacy and national security has become a significant headache for RIM, which has faced similar threats of a ban on Blackberry services in Saudi Arabia, Indonesia and the United Arab Emirates.", "tags": ["BlackBerry", "Mobile phones", "Technology", "India", "World news", "Canada", "Business", "Americas"], "title": "India lifts threat of block on BlackBerrys"},{"date": "2010-08-20T16:31:50Z", "country": "india", "content": "Four years after operations started Lafarge's gigantic limestone mine in Meghalaya state, north-east India, is still at a standstill, pending a decision by India's Supreme Court.In February the court ordered a temporary halt to mining, demanding the French firm carry out an additional environmental impact assessment focusing in particular on protection of biodiversity on the site and in nearby forests, and prevention of sediment dispersal towards the river. The shut-down is costing Lafarge Umiam Mining Private Limited (LUMPL) $3m a month.In 2006 Lafarge, a global leader in cement, boasted about the diplomatic and technical expertise deployed to locate this massive industrial facility, costing $275m, on the border between India and Bangladesh. A 17km-long conveyor belt can carry up to 6,000t of limestone a day to the cement works on the other side of the border, where the supply of gas, essential to the production of cement, is plentiful.In 1997 the project gained the financial backing of the Asian Development Bank and the International Finance Corporation, a World Bank subsidiary, on account of its contribution to developing this out-of-the-way area.But in 2008 a confidential report by an ADB mission highlighted shortcomings, in particular the lack of transparency in the purchase or lease of land belonging to indigenous peoples. The report, which Le Monde consulted, concluded that the use of a go-between fell short of transparency requirements and did not comply with ADB policy on good governance.The go-between in question was SG Lyngdoh, a member of the Meghalaya state parliament. In the mid-1990s he negotiated the purchase or use of land owned by indigenous peoples. From 1997 onwards he gradually sold the assets of his own company to LUMPL, a joint venture also involving Cementos Molins of Spain.Under the Indian constitution, land in tribal areas cannot be transferred to \"non-tribals\", unless the transaction contributes to the development of local communities. \"And so far no one has benefited from it,\" says a member of the Shella Action Committee, which opposes Lafarge's incursion.Lyngdoh, however, convinced the authorities to allow him to sell the land he had purchased to foreign organisations. \"As far as we know land acquisition policy followed the relevant ADB rules,\" a Lafarge spokesperson said.In the village of Nongtrai, where the population has transferred land-use rights to the mine, Lafarge executives show off the recent improvements: a football pitch, an extension to the school, the purchase of six looms for the women of the village and a visit by a mobile clinic at least once a week.\"It is not much. Above all LUMPL has not allocated an annual budget for local community development. Projects are funded piecemeal,\" says Kai Schmidt Solau, who took part in the ADB mission.In February the Supreme Court decided to appoint other bodies to implement sustainable development policies. It also ordered a fund to be set up and endowed with $4m a year \u2013 existing investments are estimated at $200,000 \u2013 to be paid for out of royalties on the limestone. The fund will be managed by NGOs and the state governor for villages near the mine.At Shella, villagers are demanding more jobs. \"Out of 300 jobs on offer, we only got 50,\" says village councillor Tobias Tiewdop. \"And the lowest wages are only $65 a month, not enough to feed a family.\" \"Mike Cowell, of LUMPL's parent company. responds: \"A third of the workforce is allocated to security duties and we cannot give that work to local people.\"Lafarge now plans to invest $1m in a scheme for local residents. \"But it is difficult for us to deploy sustainable development policies until we are sure we can operate the mine,\" Cowell adds.The villagers are already dependent on revenue from the mine. Although they only receive 25 cents per tonne of mined limestone, a third of what the owners of small mines in the vicinity \u2013 they all dread what would happen if Lafarge actually left. \"We would have to take our children out of the school and find other means of subsistence,\" says Daioris Stembon, deputy-chair of the Shella women's council.This story was first published in Le Monde.", "tags": ["India", "Bangladesh", "Mining", "Mining", "Indigenous peoples", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Lafarge's India-Bangladesh cement project remains frozen"},{"date": "2010-12-28T13:49:58Z", "country": "india", "content": "Indian authorities have deployed thousands of security personnel following warnings that Lashkar-e-Taiba, the Pakistan-based militant group, is planning an attack over the New Year weekend.Police officers and paramilitaries were on high alert across the country, including in India's financial capital, Mumbai, Indian officials said. House-to-house searches were under way in some areas of the city, which was attacked by Lashkar-e-Taiba in November 2008. Airports and railway stations, the city of Ahmedabad in the western state of Gujarat and the popular beach resort state of Goa were also on high alert following the warning, said to be based on \"human\" intelligence and received in recent days.Most of the locations covered by the alert had been visited by David Headley, a Pakistani-American and member of Lashkar-e-Taiba who travelled widely in India before the Mumbai attack, one official told the Guardian. Headley was tasked by the extremist group with surveillance of targets in Mumbai itself but also visited Goa and the city of Pune, where there was a blast in February.According to a secret report by Indian investigators of their interrogation of Headley in June, the undercover militant brought back film and notes on potential targets in India such as Jewish centres and tourist resorts favoured by Israelis which he passed on to his handlers.In his interrogation, Headley claimed that he frequently combined missions for Lashkar-e-Taiba with missions for the main Pakistani spy agency, the Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate (ISI). His last trips to India before his arrest in Chicago in October last year were on behalf of a veteran Pakistani militant with links to al-Qaida called Ilyas Kashmiri, he said.India has taken all terror threats seriously since the three-day terrorist siege killed 166 people in Mumbai two years ago, when 10 armed terrorists landed by sea before fanning out across the city to attack two luxury hotels, a Jewish centre and a railway station. The strike badly damaged Indian relations with Pakistan.In March, Mumbai police said they prevented a major terrorist strike after they arrested two Indian men, who they believed were preparing to hit several targets in the city.Then in September police issued a terror alert for the city during a popular Hindu festival after receiving information that two Islamist militants were planning a terror strike acting on directions from handlers in Pakistan.Earlier this month a small bomb exploded in the northern city of Varanasi, which is holy to Hindus. The attack was blamed on Indian Muslim militants.Police have been searching since Friday for four men who authorities believe have entered Mumbai to carry out a terrorist attack. Computer-aided photographs of the four suspects have been released. Police have also tightened security checks at bus and train stations, churches and markets.", "tags": ["India", "Mumbai terror attacks", "World news"], "title": "India issues nationwide terror alert"},{"date": "2010-12-28T13:49:58Z", "country": "india", "content": "Indian authorities have deployed thousands of security personnel following warnings that Lashkar-e-Taiba, the Pakistan-based militant group, is planning an attack over the New Year weekend.Police officers and paramilitaries were on high alert across the country, including in India's financial capital, Mumbai, Indian officials said. House-to-house searches were under way in some areas of the city, which was attacked by Lashkar-e-Taiba in November 2008. Airports and railway stations, the city of Ahmedabad in the western state of Gujarat and the popular beach resort state of Goa were also on high alert following the warning, said to be based on \"human\" intelligence and received in recent days.Most of the locations covered by the alert had been visited by David Headley, a Pakistani-American and member of Lashkar-e-Taiba who travelled widely in India before the Mumbai attack, one official told the Guardian. Headley was tasked by the extremist group with surveillance of targets in Mumbai itself but also visited Goa and the city of Pune, where there was a blast in February.According to a secret report by Indian investigators of their interrogation of Headley in June, the undercover militant brought back film and notes on potential targets in India such as Jewish centres and tourist resorts favoured by Israelis which he passed on to his handlers.In his interrogation, Headley claimed that he frequently combined missions for Lashkar-e-Taiba with missions for the main Pakistani spy agency, the Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate (ISI). His last trips to India before his arrest in Chicago in October last year were on behalf of a veteran Pakistani militant with links to al-Qaida called Ilyas Kashmiri, he said.India has taken all terror threats seriously since the three-day terrorist siege killed 166 people in Mumbai two years ago, when 10 armed terrorists landed by sea before fanning out across the city to attack two luxury hotels, a Jewish centre and a railway station. The strike badly damaged Indian relations with Pakistan.In March, Mumbai police said they prevented a major terrorist strike after they arrested two Indian men, who they believed were preparing to hit several targets in the city.Then in September police issued a terror alert for the city during a popular Hindu festival after receiving information that two Islamist militants were planning a terror strike acting on directions from handlers in Pakistan.Earlier this month a small bomb exploded in the northern city of Varanasi, which is holy to Hindus. The attack was blamed on Indian Muslim militants.Police have been searching since Friday for four men who authorities believe have entered Mumbai to carry out a terrorist attack. Computer-aided photographs of the four suspects have been released. Police have also tightened security checks at bus and train stations, churches and markets.", "tags": ["India", "Mumbai terror attacks", "World news"], "title": "India issues nationwide terror alert"},{"date": "2010-12-01T21:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Imagine, if it's possible, that Jeremy Paxman and Matthew Parris are recorded on tape advising a corporate lobbyist how to get her favoured MP into the coalition cabinet. Then imagine that this MP is accused of defrauding the national exchequer of billions of pounds. This is the scandal that unfolded in India last week \u2013 more disturbing and revealing for the Indian public than anything from WikiLeaks.In addition to this story, in one of the audio recordings intercepted by India's income tax department (and now widely available on the internet), Vir Sanghvi, a leading columnist and TV host, is heard offering his services to Niira Radia, a lobbyist for two of India's biggest corporate houses, the Tatas and Reliance Industries.\"What kind of story do you want?\" Sanghvi asks Radia, and goes on to offer a \"fully scripted\" and \"rehearsed\" television interview to her client, Mukesh Ambani, India's richest man. Another tape has Prabhu Chawla, an editor with India Today \u2013 India's biggest-circulation news magazine in English \u2013 explaining to Radia how Ambani might win his supreme court battle against his brother. \"Everything is fixed nowadays,\" he hints darkly. Barkha Dutt \u2013 who hosts a popular TV show called We, the People \u2013 can also be heard offering to relay messages from Radia to politicians whom Radia wants to influence in the process of forming a cabinet.Radia's candidate \u2013 A Raja \u2013 did indeed go on to become the telecommunications minister. He now stands accused of depriving the national exchequer of $39bn by selling mobile phone \"2G spectrum\" bandwidth cheaply to, among other telecom companies, Tata \u2013 represented by Radia. Under pressure from opposition parties and the supreme court, Raja resigned last month. The journalists caught on tape have preferred to brazen it out, insisting that they were only squeezing a likely source for information.At first it seemed they might get away with it when such high-circulation mainstream newspapers as the Times of India and the Hindustan Times refused to cover the scandal. But public anger, amplified by the internet, may now be making the censorship unsustainable.Yesterday Dutt appeared on her own TV channel, claiming she was guilty of nothing more than an \"error of judgment\". Her prickly defence \u2013 that only a naive journalist would see something newsworthy in the oversized influence of corporate lobbyists on political processes \u2013 pointed to a deeper rot in the New India beloved of globalised elites. As Sonia Gandhi, the Congress party leader, put it: the country's economy may \"increasingly be dynamic, but our moral universe seems to be shrinking ... The principles on which Independent India was founded, for which a generation of great leaders fought and sacrificed their all, are in danger of being negated.\"Indeed, for influential Indians the model of a \"great\" leader today is provided by Narendra Modi, the business-friendly Hindu nationalist chief minister of Gujarat who is accused of complicity in the murder of more than 2,000 Muslims in 2002. Ratan Tata, one of the most respectable names in Indian business, hails Modi as a \"dynamic leader\".It is too easy, however, to focus on the moral obtuseness of a few journalists and businessmen. A broader consensus exists within the middle class beneficiaries of India's economy, a wider culture of deference to powerful and wealthy people, and intolerance and meanness towards the poor and defenceless, and their few articulate advocates. Mainstream journalists too have succumbed to this political pathology. What the tapes reveal most vividly is not spectacular corruption \u2013 not exactly news \u2013 so much as why the supposed watchdogs of democracy have assumed the militant aggressiveness and vanity of the very privileged in a wretchedly poor country.Ratan Tata, whose conversations with Radia were also recorded, now complains that India is turning into a \"banana republic\". But Tata's own praise of Modi signified the ethical deficit among India's rich and powerful. Certainly, Sanghvi sounded like a Latin American oligarchist when, criticising the US decision to deny Modi a visa, he argued: \"Modi may be a mass murderer. But he is our mass murderer.\" Claiming to speak for the \"educated Indian middle class\", Sanghvi asserted that \"we are entirely justified in being angered\" by Arundhati Roy's recent remarks on India's military occupation of Kashmir.Marvelling about a \"concept of Indian unity\" that endorses extrajudicial execution and torture, the social psychologist Ashis Nandy recently wondered if there was \"a large enough section of India's much-vaunted middle class fully sensitive to the demands of democracy\". Or could it be that, far from upholding progressive values, many exalted Indians, including journalists, will do anything to protect \"their new-found social status and political clout\"?Certainly, these revelations and their attempted suppression by mainstream media not only validate Nandy's grim diagnosis. They also confirm his suspicion that, notwithstanding the anarchist culture of WikiLeaks, the future of censorship in India is \"very bright\".", "tags": ["India", "Censorship", "Tata", "Media", "World news"], "title": "The rotting of New India | Pankaj Mishra"},{"date": "2010-12-28T13:49:58Z", "country": "india", "content": "Indian authorities have deployed thousands of security personnel following warnings that Lashkar-e-Taiba, the Pakistan-based militant group, is planning an attack over the New Year weekend.Police officers and paramilitaries were on high alert across the country, including in India's financial capital, Mumbai, Indian officials said. House-to-house searches were under way in some areas of the city, which was attacked by Lashkar-e-Taiba in November 2008. Airports and railway stations, the city of Ahmedabad in the western state of Gujarat and the popular beach resort state of Goa were also on high alert following the warning, said to be based on \"human\" intelligence and received in recent days.Most of the locations covered by the alert had been visited by David Headley, a Pakistani-American and member of Lashkar-e-Taiba who travelled widely in India before the Mumbai attack, one official told the Guardian. Headley was tasked by the extremist group with surveillance of targets in Mumbai itself but also visited Goa and the city of Pune, where there was a blast in February.According to a secret report by Indian investigators of their interrogation of Headley in June, the undercover militant brought back film and notes on potential targets in India such as Jewish centres and tourist resorts favoured by Israelis which he passed on to his handlers.In his interrogation, Headley claimed that he frequently combined missions for Lashkar-e-Taiba with missions for the main Pakistani spy agency, the Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate (ISI). His last trips to India before his arrest in Chicago in October last year were on behalf of a veteran Pakistani militant with links to al-Qaida called Ilyas Kashmiri, he said.India has taken all terror threats seriously since the three-day terrorist siege killed 166 people in Mumbai two years ago, when 10 armed terrorists landed by sea before fanning out across the city to attack two luxury hotels, a Jewish centre and a railway station. The strike badly damaged Indian relations with Pakistan.In March, Mumbai police said they prevented a major terrorist strike after they arrested two Indian men, who they believed were preparing to hit several targets in the city.Then in September police issued a terror alert for the city during a popular Hindu festival after receiving information that two Islamist militants were planning a terror strike acting on directions from handlers in Pakistan.Earlier this month a small bomb exploded in the northern city of Varanasi, which is holy to Hindus. The attack was blamed on Indian Muslim militants.Police have been searching since Friday for four men who authorities believe have entered Mumbai to carry out a terrorist attack. Computer-aided photographs of the four suspects have been released. Police have also tightened security checks at bus and train stations, churches and markets.", "tags": ["India", "Mumbai terror attacks", "World news"], "title": "India issues nationwide terror alert"},{"date": "2010-12-01T21:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Imagine, if it's possible, that Jeremy Paxman and Matthew Parris are recorded on tape advising a corporate lobbyist how to get her favoured MP into the coalition cabinet. Then imagine that this MP is accused of defrauding the national exchequer of billions of pounds. This is the scandal that unfolded in India last week \u2013 more disturbing and revealing for the Indian public than anything from WikiLeaks.In addition to this story, in one of the audio recordings intercepted by India's income tax department (and now widely available on the internet), Vir Sanghvi, a leading columnist and TV host, is heard offering his services to Niira Radia, a lobbyist for two of India's biggest corporate houses, the Tatas and Reliance Industries.\"What kind of story do you want?\" Sanghvi asks Radia, and goes on to offer a \"fully scripted\" and \"rehearsed\" television interview to her client, Mukesh Ambani, India's richest man. Another tape has Prabhu Chawla, an editor with India Today \u2013 India's biggest-circulation news magazine in English \u2013 explaining to Radia how Ambani might win his supreme court battle against his brother. \"Everything is fixed nowadays,\" he hints darkly. Barkha Dutt \u2013 who hosts a popular TV show called We, the People \u2013 can also be heard offering to relay messages from Radia to politicians whom Radia wants to influence in the process of forming a cabinet.Radia's candidate \u2013 A Raja \u2013 did indeed go on to become the telecommunications minister. He now stands accused of depriving the national exchequer of $39bn by selling mobile phone \"2G spectrum\" bandwidth cheaply to, among other telecom companies, Tata \u2013 represented by Radia. Under pressure from opposition parties and the supreme court, Raja resigned last month. The journalists caught on tape have preferred to brazen it out, insisting that they were only squeezing a likely source for information.At first it seemed they might get away with it when such high-circulation mainstream newspapers as the Times of India and the Hindustan Times refused to cover the scandal. But public anger, amplified by the internet, may now be making the censorship unsustainable.Yesterday Dutt appeared on her own TV channel, claiming she was guilty of nothing more than an \"error of judgment\". Her prickly defence \u2013 that only a naive journalist would see something newsworthy in the oversized influence of corporate lobbyists on political processes \u2013 pointed to a deeper rot in the New India beloved of globalised elites. As Sonia Gandhi, the Congress party leader, put it: the country's economy may \"increasingly be dynamic, but our moral universe seems to be shrinking ... The principles on which Independent India was founded, for which a generation of great leaders fought and sacrificed their all, are in danger of being negated.\"Indeed, for influential Indians the model of a \"great\" leader today is provided by Narendra Modi, the business-friendly Hindu nationalist chief minister of Gujarat who is accused of complicity in the murder of more than 2,000 Muslims in 2002. Ratan Tata, one of the most respectable names in Indian business, hails Modi as a \"dynamic leader\".It is too easy, however, to focus on the moral obtuseness of a few journalists and businessmen. A broader consensus exists within the middle class beneficiaries of India's economy, a wider culture of deference to powerful and wealthy people, and intolerance and meanness towards the poor and defenceless, and their few articulate advocates. Mainstream journalists too have succumbed to this political pathology. What the tapes reveal most vividly is not spectacular corruption \u2013 not exactly news \u2013 so much as why the supposed watchdogs of democracy have assumed the militant aggressiveness and vanity of the very privileged in a wretchedly poor country.Ratan Tata, whose conversations with Radia were also recorded, now complains that India is turning into a \"banana republic\". But Tata's own praise of Modi signified the ethical deficit among India's rich and powerful. Certainly, Sanghvi sounded like a Latin American oligarchist when, criticising the US decision to deny Modi a visa, he argued: \"Modi may be a mass murderer. But he is our mass murderer.\" Claiming to speak for the \"educated Indian middle class\", Sanghvi asserted that \"we are entirely justified in being angered\" by Arundhati Roy's recent remarks on India's military occupation of Kashmir.Marvelling about a \"concept of Indian unity\" that endorses extrajudicial execution and torture, the social psychologist Ashis Nandy recently wondered if there was \"a large enough section of India's much-vaunted middle class fully sensitive to the demands of democracy\". Or could it be that, far from upholding progressive values, many exalted Indians, including journalists, will do anything to protect \"their new-found social status and political clout\"?Certainly, these revelations and their attempted suppression by mainstream media not only validate Nandy's grim diagnosis. They also confirm his suspicion that, notwithstanding the anarchist culture of WikiLeaks, the future of censorship in India is \"very bright\".", "tags": ["India", "Censorship", "Tata", "Media", "World news"], "title": "The rotting of New India | Pankaj Mishra"},{"date": "2010-11-12T12:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "More than four millennia have passed since the many artefacts of the ancient Indus civilisation were fashioned. Yet one tiny sculpture, made by an unknown artist, still seems strikingly relevant to us today. The seal shows a seated figure on a low platform in a pose that is familiar to modern practitioners of yoga and meditation: the knees spread to the sides with the feet touching, and the arms stretch from the shoulders away from the body with the fingertips resting on the knees. Assuming the symmetrical and balanced form of a triangle, the body of the adept thus posed can endure lengthy sessions of yoga and meditation without needing to shift.The word yoga means \"to unite\" and ancient yoga was intended to prepare the body for meditation through which the individual would seek to understand his or her oneness with the totality of the universe. Once this understanding was complete, people could no more hurt another living being than themselves. Today, such practices are routinely prescribed to complement western medical and psychotherapy treatments. Among the documented benefits of yoga and its corollary, meditation, are lowered blood pressure, greater mental acuity and stress reduction.To the ancients who developed and perfected these mentally and physically challenging methods, however, yoga and meditation were tools for finding inner peace and a harmonious existence. Once you look closely, plenty more evidence points to the non-violent, peaceful nature of these early peoples. For example, the archaeological remains of the cities and towns of the Indus civilisation during its florescence from c2300-1750BC show little if any indication of internal dissent, criminality, or even the threat of war and conflict from the outside. There are no known fortifications, nor is there proof of ransacking and pillaging.There is also an emphasis on citizenship rather than a ruling elite in this period. Indeed, archaeological evidence suggests there was, in fact, no hereditary ruler \u2013 such as a king or other monarch \u2013 that amassed and controlled the wealth of the society. Thus, in contrast to the other ancient civilisations of the world, whose vast architectural and artistic undertakings, such as tombs and large-scale sculptures, served the wealthy and powerful, the Indus civilisation leaves nothing in the way of such monuments. Instead, government programmes and financial resources seem to have been directed towards the organisation of a society that benefited its citizens.Another feature that sets the ancient Indus culture apart from other early civilisations is the prominent role played by women. Among the artefacts we have been able to unearth are thousands of ceramic sculptures representing women, sometimes interpreted as goddesses, and, specifically, mother goddesses. This is a core element in the major religious developments of India, which are populated with goddesses \u2013 some supreme and others whose role is to complement male deities who would otherwise be incomplete or even powerless. It is thus hardly surprising that the symbol chosen for the nationalistic independence movement of the early 20th century and the establishment of India's modern democracy was Bharat Mata \u2013 that is, Mother India.The area's first ancient culture, the Indus or Harappan civilisation, was at its peak centred in what is now Pakistan in the northwestern reaches of south Asia. It stretched southward for a thousand miles along the western coastal areas of India. It eventually disappeared around 1750BC, because of a combination of natural and human factors. Earthquakes in the high Himalayas may have changed the course of the rivers that provided life-sustaining agricultural irrigation, leading to the abandonment of cities and towns and relocation elsewhere. In addition, the ancient inhabitants, unaware of the need to replant as they cut down trees to use for building and fuel, deforested the region, thus contributing to its transformation into the desert of today.The period that followed the Indus civilisation from c1750BC to the third century BC has left a spotty material record. But we know it was in this time that some of the most important principles of Indic civilisation appeared. Some of these precepts come from the Indus culture, but other ideas arrived in India from the outside, such as with the nomadic, Indo-European Aryans from central Asia.Perhaps the most important figure to emerge in this period was the historical Buddha, born Siddhartha Gautama in the Ganges river region of northern India in the sixth century BC. Attaining perfect knowledge at the age of 36, after a quest that involved ascetic and meditational practices, the Buddha taught what is known as the Middle Way, advocating the abandonment of both extreme asceticism and extreme luxury. The Buddha also taught that all living beings have the capacity to transform themselves from an ignorant, self-centred state to one that embodies unqualified goodwill and generosity. Enlightenment was a matter of personal responsibility: every person had to develop wisely directed compassion for all living beings along with perfect knowledge of their role in the universe.It's important to note that the historical Buddha is not considered a divine being and his followers do not worship him \u2013 rather, they revere and honour him through their practices. In art, he is shown as a human, not a superhuman being. Because there is no all-powerful central deity in Buddhism, the religion is easily compatible with other traditions and there are many people throughout the world today who combine Buddhism with another faith.A contemporary of Buddha was Mahavira: the 24th in a line of perfected human beings known as jinas, or victors, and a major figure in the Jain religion. Like the Buddha, Mahavira is not considered a god but an exemplar to his followers. When depicted in art, he and the other 24 jinas appear as highly perfected humans.Unlike Buddhism and Jainism, India's third major indigenous religion, Hinduism, did not have a human teacher to whom the beliefs and practices of the tradition may be traced. Instead, it is centred around devotion to specific deities, both supreme and minor, who are numbered among a vast pantheon of gods and goddesses. Shiva destroys the universe with his cosmic dance when it has deteriorated to the degree that it needs to be reborn; Vishnu is the protector and preserver of the world as it struggles to maintain stasis. Archaeological evidence for Hinduism appears later in India's material record than those of Buddhism and Jainism, and stone and metal artefacts portraying the host of deities are rare before the fifth century AD.All three of these Indic religions share the belief that every living being is subject to a cycle of birth and rebirth over countless aeons. Known as samsara, this cycle of transmigration is not limited to humans but includes all sentient beings. The form one will take in a future birth is determined by one's karma \u2013 a term that in modern parlance has come to mean little more than \"luck\", but the original Indic use of the word specifically refers to one's actions, which are the result of choice, not chance. The escape from samsara, called nirvana by Buddhists and moksa by Hindus and Jains, is the ultimate goal of each of the three religious traditions, and all human activity should, ideally, be directed towards improving one's karma to achieve this end.Although today we assign different names to these three religious traditions, in many ways they are considered different paths, or margs, toward a similar objective. Within Indic culture, and indeed even within families, individuals have been free to choose their own marg, and we have no evidence of religious conflict among these traditions.Around the third century BC, a mix of internal cultural evolution and stimulating contact with ancient western Asia and the Mediterranean worlds brought change to the Indic regions. The arrival of Alexander the Great in the northwestern region of south Asia in 327BC, and the collapse of the ancient Persian Empire, introduced new ideas \u2013 including the development of the concept of kingship, and technologies such as the tools and knowledge necessary for large-scale stone carving. Had Alexander succeeded in conquering the Indian subcontinent \u2013 mutiny and fatigue among his troops is said to have caused a retreat \u2013 one can only imagine how Indian history might have evolved. As it stands, his legacy is mainly cultural, not political, as the pathways across western Asia that he forged remained open for trade and economic exchange for centuries after his death.One thing to pass through this gateway was a system of rule by kingship, which took hold of northern India in the rich lands fertilised by the life-giving Ganges river. The most renowned of India's first kings was Ashoka, who even today is admired by India's leaders as a paradigm of the benevolent ruler. After years engaged in waging war to aggrandise his empire, Ashoka, having seen some 150,000 people carried away as captives, 100,000 more slain, and many more dead after his final conquest, was struck with remorse at the suffering he had caused. Converting to Buddhism, Ashoka spent the remainder of his life in righteous, peaceful activities. His benevolent kingship was adopted as a model throughout Asia as Buddhism moved beyond its Indic homeland. The set of four lions portrayed on one of his most famous monuments \u2013 the stone pillar he erected at Sarnath, where the Buddha taught his first sermon \u2013 has become a ubiquitous symbol of India's modern democracy, and is used on coins, stamps, government stationery, and elsewhere to laud the modern nation's roots in enlightened rulership.As suggested by the artefacts that have survived and what we know about the religious and philosophical beliefs of the people, the period 2500BC-AD500 in ancient India was one of extraordinary cultural brilliance, with innovations and traditions that still leave their mark on the world today. Furthermore, the cultural continuity between India's past and present is unmatched in the other regions of the world. The modern societies in Egypt, Mesopotamia, Greece, Rome, the Americas and China for the most part bear little resemblance to their ancient counterparts. Indeed, what is striking from an overview of the early phases of India's long and rich cultural development is the fact that so many of the features in evidence through the material record have had a persistent and lasting effect on Indic society and the world.Ancient India's legacy in the fields of science and mathematics is significant. Mathematics was important to the layout of religious buildings and the philosophical comprehension of the cosmos. The fifth century AD astronomer and mathematician Aryabhata is credited with originating the modern decimal system, which is predicated on an understanding of the concept of zero. Evidence of the Indic origin of the idea of zero, including the use of a small circle to denote the numeral, is found in Sanskrit texts and inscriptions.Another cultural legacy is an ancient branch of medicine known as Ayurveda, still widely practiced in India today. It has also gained popularity in the western world as a \"complementary\" medicine. Translating literally as \"science of life\", it conceives basic principles for human health and points to physical and mental balance as the means to wellbeing.Perhaps ancient India's most lasting legacy is the belief in non-harm to living beings \u2013 a centrepiece of Buddhism, Jainism and Hinduism \u2013 which was transformed into the passive resistance advocated by Mahatma Gandhi during India's early 20th century struggle for independence from British rule. After Gandhi, many other modern luminaries have been guided by the principle of non-violence in their quests for social justice, most famously Reverend Martin Luther King, who spearheaded the struggle for racial equality in the US during the 1960s. In his autobiography, King notes that \"Gandhi was the guiding light of our technique of non-violent social change\" during the bus boycott in 1956 that ended Alabama's transport segregation on the city's buses. John F. Kennedy, Nelson Mandela and Barack Obama have also claimed inspiration from Mahatma Gandhi and the ancient Indian principle of non-harm, and the Indic compassion towards all living beings and the corresponding non-violent stance has been adopted by groups that advocate vegetarianism, animal welfare and environmental activism. Perhaps there is no greater compliment that can be paid to India's ancient culture than the fact that its sophisticated beliefs and reverence for life can serve as guideposts to the world today. Susan L Huntington is professor in art history at Ohio State University. Among other books, she is the author of the Art of Ancient India (Weatherhill)", "tags": ["Culture", "India", "Religion", "Philosophy", "Archaeology", "Science", "World news", "Art and design"], "title": "The Ancient World | India"},{"date": "2010-12-28T13:49:58Z", "country": "india", "content": "Indian authorities have deployed thousands of security personnel following warnings that Lashkar-e-Taiba, the Pakistan-based militant group, is planning an attack over the New Year weekend.Police officers and paramilitaries were on high alert across the country, including in India's financial capital, Mumbai, Indian officials said. House-to-house searches were under way in some areas of the city, which was attacked by Lashkar-e-Taiba in November 2008. Airports and railway stations, the city of Ahmedabad in the western state of Gujarat and the popular beach resort state of Goa were also on high alert following the warning, said to be based on \"human\" intelligence and received in recent days.Most of the locations covered by the alert had been visited by David Headley, a Pakistani-American and member of Lashkar-e-Taiba who travelled widely in India before the Mumbai attack, one official told the Guardian. Headley was tasked by the extremist group with surveillance of targets in Mumbai itself but also visited Goa and the city of Pune, where there was a blast in February.According to a secret report by Indian investigators of their interrogation of Headley in June, the undercover militant brought back film and notes on potential targets in India such as Jewish centres and tourist resorts favoured by Israelis which he passed on to his handlers.In his interrogation, Headley claimed that he frequently combined missions for Lashkar-e-Taiba with missions for the main Pakistani spy agency, the Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate (ISI). His last trips to India before his arrest in Chicago in October last year were on behalf of a veteran Pakistani militant with links to al-Qaida called Ilyas Kashmiri, he said.India has taken all terror threats seriously since the three-day terrorist siege killed 166 people in Mumbai two years ago, when 10 armed terrorists landed by sea before fanning out across the city to attack two luxury hotels, a Jewish centre and a railway station. The strike badly damaged Indian relations with Pakistan.In March, Mumbai police said they prevented a major terrorist strike after they arrested two Indian men, who they believed were preparing to hit several targets in the city.Then in September police issued a terror alert for the city during a popular Hindu festival after receiving information that two Islamist militants were planning a terror strike acting on directions from handlers in Pakistan.Earlier this month a small bomb exploded in the northern city of Varanasi, which is holy to Hindus. The attack was blamed on Indian Muslim militants.Police have been searching since Friday for four men who authorities believe have entered Mumbai to carry out a terrorist attack. Computer-aided photographs of the four suspects have been released. Police have also tightened security checks at bus and train stations, churches and markets.", "tags": ["India", "Mumbai terror attacks", "World news"], "title": "India issues nationwide terror alert"},{"date": "2010-12-01T21:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Imagine, if it's possible, that Jeremy Paxman and Matthew Parris are recorded on tape advising a corporate lobbyist how to get her favoured MP into the coalition cabinet. Then imagine that this MP is accused of defrauding the national exchequer of billions of pounds. This is the scandal that unfolded in India last week \u2013 more disturbing and revealing for the Indian public than anything from WikiLeaks.In addition to this story, in one of the audio recordings intercepted by India's income tax department (and now widely available on the internet), Vir Sanghvi, a leading columnist and TV host, is heard offering his services to Niira Radia, a lobbyist for two of India's biggest corporate houses, the Tatas and Reliance Industries.\"What kind of story do you want?\" Sanghvi asks Radia, and goes on to offer a \"fully scripted\" and \"rehearsed\" television interview to her client, Mukesh Ambani, India's richest man. Another tape has Prabhu Chawla, an editor with India Today \u2013 India's biggest-circulation news magazine in English \u2013 explaining to Radia how Ambani might win his supreme court battle against his brother. \"Everything is fixed nowadays,\" he hints darkly. Barkha Dutt \u2013 who hosts a popular TV show called We, the People \u2013 can also be heard offering to relay messages from Radia to politicians whom Radia wants to influence in the process of forming a cabinet.Radia's candidate \u2013 A Raja \u2013 did indeed go on to become the telecommunications minister. He now stands accused of depriving the national exchequer of $39bn by selling mobile phone \"2G spectrum\" bandwidth cheaply to, among other telecom companies, Tata \u2013 represented by Radia. Under pressure from opposition parties and the supreme court, Raja resigned last month. The journalists caught on tape have preferred to brazen it out, insisting that they were only squeezing a likely source for information.At first it seemed they might get away with it when such high-circulation mainstream newspapers as the Times of India and the Hindustan Times refused to cover the scandal. But public anger, amplified by the internet, may now be making the censorship unsustainable.Yesterday Dutt appeared on her own TV channel, claiming she was guilty of nothing more than an \"error of judgment\". Her prickly defence \u2013 that only a naive journalist would see something newsworthy in the oversized influence of corporate lobbyists on political processes \u2013 pointed to a deeper rot in the New India beloved of globalised elites. As Sonia Gandhi, the Congress party leader, put it: the country's economy may \"increasingly be dynamic, but our moral universe seems to be shrinking ... The principles on which Independent India was founded, for which a generation of great leaders fought and sacrificed their all, are in danger of being negated.\"Indeed, for influential Indians the model of a \"great\" leader today is provided by Narendra Modi, the business-friendly Hindu nationalist chief minister of Gujarat who is accused of complicity in the murder of more than 2,000 Muslims in 2002. Ratan Tata, one of the most respectable names in Indian business, hails Modi as a \"dynamic leader\".It is too easy, however, to focus on the moral obtuseness of a few journalists and businessmen. A broader consensus exists within the middle class beneficiaries of India's economy, a wider culture of deference to powerful and wealthy people, and intolerance and meanness towards the poor and defenceless, and their few articulate advocates. Mainstream journalists too have succumbed to this political pathology. What the tapes reveal most vividly is not spectacular corruption \u2013 not exactly news \u2013 so much as why the supposed watchdogs of democracy have assumed the militant aggressiveness and vanity of the very privileged in a wretchedly poor country.Ratan Tata, whose conversations with Radia were also recorded, now complains that India is turning into a \"banana republic\". But Tata's own praise of Modi signified the ethical deficit among India's rich and powerful. Certainly, Sanghvi sounded like a Latin American oligarchist when, criticising the US decision to deny Modi a visa, he argued: \"Modi may be a mass murderer. But he is our mass murderer.\" Claiming to speak for the \"educated Indian middle class\", Sanghvi asserted that \"we are entirely justified in being angered\" by Arundhati Roy's recent remarks on India's military occupation of Kashmir.Marvelling about a \"concept of Indian unity\" that endorses extrajudicial execution and torture, the social psychologist Ashis Nandy recently wondered if there was \"a large enough section of India's much-vaunted middle class fully sensitive to the demands of democracy\". Or could it be that, far from upholding progressive values, many exalted Indians, including journalists, will do anything to protect \"their new-found social status and political clout\"?Certainly, these revelations and their attempted suppression by mainstream media not only validate Nandy's grim diagnosis. They also confirm his suspicion that, notwithstanding the anarchist culture of WikiLeaks, the future of censorship in India is \"very bright\".", "tags": ["India", "Censorship", "Tata", "Media", "World news"], "title": "The rotting of New India | Pankaj Mishra"},{"date": "2010-11-12T12:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "More than four millennia have passed since the many artefacts of the ancient Indus civilisation were fashioned. Yet one tiny sculpture, made by an unknown artist, still seems strikingly relevant to us today. The seal shows a seated figure on a low platform in a pose that is familiar to modern practitioners of yoga and meditation: the knees spread to the sides with the feet touching, and the arms stretch from the shoulders away from the body with the fingertips resting on the knees. Assuming the symmetrical and balanced form of a triangle, the body of the adept thus posed can endure lengthy sessions of yoga and meditation without needing to shift.The word yoga means \"to unite\" and ancient yoga was intended to prepare the body for meditation through which the individual would seek to understand his or her oneness with the totality of the universe. Once this understanding was complete, people could no more hurt another living being than themselves. Today, such practices are routinely prescribed to complement western medical and psychotherapy treatments. Among the documented benefits of yoga and its corollary, meditation, are lowered blood pressure, greater mental acuity and stress reduction.To the ancients who developed and perfected these mentally and physically challenging methods, however, yoga and meditation were tools for finding inner peace and a harmonious existence. Once you look closely, plenty more evidence points to the non-violent, peaceful nature of these early peoples. For example, the archaeological remains of the cities and towns of the Indus civilisation during its florescence from c2300-1750BC show little if any indication of internal dissent, criminality, or even the threat of war and conflict from the outside. There are no known fortifications, nor is there proof of ransacking and pillaging.There is also an emphasis on citizenship rather than a ruling elite in this period. Indeed, archaeological evidence suggests there was, in fact, no hereditary ruler \u2013 such as a king or other monarch \u2013 that amassed and controlled the wealth of the society. Thus, in contrast to the other ancient civilisations of the world, whose vast architectural and artistic undertakings, such as tombs and large-scale sculptures, served the wealthy and powerful, the Indus civilisation leaves nothing in the way of such monuments. Instead, government programmes and financial resources seem to have been directed towards the organisation of a society that benefited its citizens.Another feature that sets the ancient Indus culture apart from other early civilisations is the prominent role played by women. Among the artefacts we have been able to unearth are thousands of ceramic sculptures representing women, sometimes interpreted as goddesses, and, specifically, mother goddesses. This is a core element in the major religious developments of India, which are populated with goddesses \u2013 some supreme and others whose role is to complement male deities who would otherwise be incomplete or even powerless. It is thus hardly surprising that the symbol chosen for the nationalistic independence movement of the early 20th century and the establishment of India's modern democracy was Bharat Mata \u2013 that is, Mother India.The area's first ancient culture, the Indus or Harappan civilisation, was at its peak centred in what is now Pakistan in the northwestern reaches of south Asia. It stretched southward for a thousand miles along the western coastal areas of India. It eventually disappeared around 1750BC, because of a combination of natural and human factors. Earthquakes in the high Himalayas may have changed the course of the rivers that provided life-sustaining agricultural irrigation, leading to the abandonment of cities and towns and relocation elsewhere. In addition, the ancient inhabitants, unaware of the need to replant as they cut down trees to use for building and fuel, deforested the region, thus contributing to its transformation into the desert of today.The period that followed the Indus civilisation from c1750BC to the third century BC has left a spotty material record. But we know it was in this time that some of the most important principles of Indic civilisation appeared. Some of these precepts come from the Indus culture, but other ideas arrived in India from the outside, such as with the nomadic, Indo-European Aryans from central Asia.Perhaps the most important figure to emerge in this period was the historical Buddha, born Siddhartha Gautama in the Ganges river region of northern India in the sixth century BC. Attaining perfect knowledge at the age of 36, after a quest that involved ascetic and meditational practices, the Buddha taught what is known as the Middle Way, advocating the abandonment of both extreme asceticism and extreme luxury. The Buddha also taught that all living beings have the capacity to transform themselves from an ignorant, self-centred state to one that embodies unqualified goodwill and generosity. Enlightenment was a matter of personal responsibility: every person had to develop wisely directed compassion for all living beings along with perfect knowledge of their role in the universe.It's important to note that the historical Buddha is not considered a divine being and his followers do not worship him \u2013 rather, they revere and honour him through their practices. In art, he is shown as a human, not a superhuman being. Because there is no all-powerful central deity in Buddhism, the religion is easily compatible with other traditions and there are many people throughout the world today who combine Buddhism with another faith.A contemporary of Buddha was Mahavira: the 24th in a line of perfected human beings known as jinas, or victors, and a major figure in the Jain religion. Like the Buddha, Mahavira is not considered a god but an exemplar to his followers. When depicted in art, he and the other 24 jinas appear as highly perfected humans.Unlike Buddhism and Jainism, India's third major indigenous religion, Hinduism, did not have a human teacher to whom the beliefs and practices of the tradition may be traced. Instead, it is centred around devotion to specific deities, both supreme and minor, who are numbered among a vast pantheon of gods and goddesses. Shiva destroys the universe with his cosmic dance when it has deteriorated to the degree that it needs to be reborn; Vishnu is the protector and preserver of the world as it struggles to maintain stasis. Archaeological evidence for Hinduism appears later in India's material record than those of Buddhism and Jainism, and stone and metal artefacts portraying the host of deities are rare before the fifth century AD.All three of these Indic religions share the belief that every living being is subject to a cycle of birth and rebirth over countless aeons. Known as samsara, this cycle of transmigration is not limited to humans but includes all sentient beings. The form one will take in a future birth is determined by one's karma \u2013 a term that in modern parlance has come to mean little more than \"luck\", but the original Indic use of the word specifically refers to one's actions, which are the result of choice, not chance. The escape from samsara, called nirvana by Buddhists and moksa by Hindus and Jains, is the ultimate goal of each of the three religious traditions, and all human activity should, ideally, be directed towards improving one's karma to achieve this end.Although today we assign different names to these three religious traditions, in many ways they are considered different paths, or margs, toward a similar objective. Within Indic culture, and indeed even within families, individuals have been free to choose their own marg, and we have no evidence of religious conflict among these traditions.Around the third century BC, a mix of internal cultural evolution and stimulating contact with ancient western Asia and the Mediterranean worlds brought change to the Indic regions. The arrival of Alexander the Great in the northwestern region of south Asia in 327BC, and the collapse of the ancient Persian Empire, introduced new ideas \u2013 including the development of the concept of kingship, and technologies such as the tools and knowledge necessary for large-scale stone carving. Had Alexander succeeded in conquering the Indian subcontinent \u2013 mutiny and fatigue among his troops is said to have caused a retreat \u2013 one can only imagine how Indian history might have evolved. As it stands, his legacy is mainly cultural, not political, as the pathways across western Asia that he forged remained open for trade and economic exchange for centuries after his death.One thing to pass through this gateway was a system of rule by kingship, which took hold of northern India in the rich lands fertilised by the life-giving Ganges river. The most renowned of India's first kings was Ashoka, who even today is admired by India's leaders as a paradigm of the benevolent ruler. After years engaged in waging war to aggrandise his empire, Ashoka, having seen some 150,000 people carried away as captives, 100,000 more slain, and many more dead after his final conquest, was struck with remorse at the suffering he had caused. Converting to Buddhism, Ashoka spent the remainder of his life in righteous, peaceful activities. His benevolent kingship was adopted as a model throughout Asia as Buddhism moved beyond its Indic homeland. The set of four lions portrayed on one of his most famous monuments \u2013 the stone pillar he erected at Sarnath, where the Buddha taught his first sermon \u2013 has become a ubiquitous symbol of India's modern democracy, and is used on coins, stamps, government stationery, and elsewhere to laud the modern nation's roots in enlightened rulership.As suggested by the artefacts that have survived and what we know about the religious and philosophical beliefs of the people, the period 2500BC-AD500 in ancient India was one of extraordinary cultural brilliance, with innovations and traditions that still leave their mark on the world today. Furthermore, the cultural continuity between India's past and present is unmatched in the other regions of the world. The modern societies in Egypt, Mesopotamia, Greece, Rome, the Americas and China for the most part bear little resemblance to their ancient counterparts. Indeed, what is striking from an overview of the early phases of India's long and rich cultural development is the fact that so many of the features in evidence through the material record have had a persistent and lasting effect on Indic society and the world.Ancient India's legacy in the fields of science and mathematics is significant. Mathematics was important to the layout of religious buildings and the philosophical comprehension of the cosmos. The fifth century AD astronomer and mathematician Aryabhata is credited with originating the modern decimal system, which is predicated on an understanding of the concept of zero. Evidence of the Indic origin of the idea of zero, including the use of a small circle to denote the numeral, is found in Sanskrit texts and inscriptions.Another cultural legacy is an ancient branch of medicine known as Ayurveda, still widely practiced in India today. It has also gained popularity in the western world as a \"complementary\" medicine. Translating literally as \"science of life\", it conceives basic principles for human health and points to physical and mental balance as the means to wellbeing.Perhaps ancient India's most lasting legacy is the belief in non-harm to living beings \u2013 a centrepiece of Buddhism, Jainism and Hinduism \u2013 which was transformed into the passive resistance advocated by Mahatma Gandhi during India's early 20th century struggle for independence from British rule. After Gandhi, many other modern luminaries have been guided by the principle of non-violence in their quests for social justice, most famously Reverend Martin Luther King, who spearheaded the struggle for racial equality in the US during the 1960s. In his autobiography, King notes that \"Gandhi was the guiding light of our technique of non-violent social change\" during the bus boycott in 1956 that ended Alabama's transport segregation on the city's buses. John F. Kennedy, Nelson Mandela and Barack Obama have also claimed inspiration from Mahatma Gandhi and the ancient Indian principle of non-harm, and the Indic compassion towards all living beings and the corresponding non-violent stance has been adopted by groups that advocate vegetarianism, animal welfare and environmental activism. Perhaps there is no greater compliment that can be paid to India's ancient culture than the fact that its sophisticated beliefs and reverence for life can serve as guideposts to the world today. Susan L Huntington is professor in art history at Ohio State University. Among other books, she is the author of the Art of Ancient India (Weatherhill)", "tags": ["Culture", "India", "Religion", "Philosophy", "Archaeology", "Science", "World news", "Art and design"], "title": "The Ancient World | India"},{"date": "2010-10-26T13:01:39Z", "country": "india", "content": "Sir Arthur said, \"stuff and nonsense\" (or words to that effect). \"We can't station British troops at Bangalore. It might be healthy up there, but there's not enough water.\" In 1805 Wellesley left India and the troops were moved up to Bangalore on the Deccan highlands. No doubt they suffered from water shortages as we still do today.The earliest rulers of Bangalore knew that even a small community could only survive on the Deccan if water was carefully conserved. Artificial lakes were created round the city and were joined by water channels. As governments changed and land values increased, many lakes disappeared and channels became blocked. We are in a strange position because, at the end of our road, we have the memory of a lake.Parks are important in modern Bangalore, where few people have gardens. Our local lake has become a park. There is still a lake in the middle, and walking round it is a morning exercise for many of our neighbours. There are groups of women and retired men who do their socialising then. They walk together every morning, exchange news and gossip, and plan other meetings. Some groups bring bread to throw at the large, whiskery carp that live in the lake and enjoy the resultant feeding frenzy. The more romantic sit and watch the birds flying over the water.We realised quite soon that while these groups were social, for others the park provided a moment of privacy. Ours is a traditional neighbourhood, where large families live in small dwellings and the women are often together in one room while the men are in another. In the morning, we pass shy young couples holding hands on secluded benches. They are in new arranged marriages and slowly beginning to get to know each other. Older couples also use their time in the park this way. As they walk, they can discuss family matters and, away from the house, express themselves in non-traditional ways. One morning we walked towards an elderly couple, both walking fast and vigorously, discussing some arrangements. Suddenly, the husband took his wife's face between his hands and gave her a smacking kiss. We didn't need to hear what she said because the body language was so clear.\"Get away! Be decent! What will people think?\" But then they exchanged a warm, private smile.", "tags": ["India"], "title": "India: Dry humour in Bangalore"},{"date": "2010-12-28T13:49:58Z", "country": "india", "content": "Indian authorities have deployed thousands of security personnel following warnings that Lashkar-e-Taiba, the Pakistan-based militant group, is planning an attack over the New Year weekend.Police officers and paramilitaries were on high alert across the country, including in India's financial capital, Mumbai, Indian officials said. House-to-house searches were under way in some areas of the city, which was attacked by Lashkar-e-Taiba in November 2008. Airports and railway stations, the city of Ahmedabad in the western state of Gujarat and the popular beach resort state of Goa were also on high alert following the warning, said to be based on \"human\" intelligence and received in recent days.Most of the locations covered by the alert had been visited by David Headley, a Pakistani-American and member of Lashkar-e-Taiba who travelled widely in India before the Mumbai attack, one official told the Guardian. Headley was tasked by the extremist group with surveillance of targets in Mumbai itself but also visited Goa and the city of Pune, where there was a blast in February.According to a secret report by Indian investigators of their interrogation of Headley in June, the undercover militant brought back film and notes on potential targets in India such as Jewish centres and tourist resorts favoured by Israelis which he passed on to his handlers.In his interrogation, Headley claimed that he frequently combined missions for Lashkar-e-Taiba with missions for the main Pakistani spy agency, the Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate (ISI). His last trips to India before his arrest in Chicago in October last year were on behalf of a veteran Pakistani militant with links to al-Qaida called Ilyas Kashmiri, he said.India has taken all terror threats seriously since the three-day terrorist siege killed 166 people in Mumbai two years ago, when 10 armed terrorists landed by sea before fanning out across the city to attack two luxury hotels, a Jewish centre and a railway station. The strike badly damaged Indian relations with Pakistan.In March, Mumbai police said they prevented a major terrorist strike after they arrested two Indian men, who they believed were preparing to hit several targets in the city.Then in September police issued a terror alert for the city during a popular Hindu festival after receiving information that two Islamist militants were planning a terror strike acting on directions from handlers in Pakistan.Earlier this month a small bomb exploded in the northern city of Varanasi, which is holy to Hindus. The attack was blamed on Indian Muslim militants.Police have been searching since Friday for four men who authorities believe have entered Mumbai to carry out a terrorist attack. Computer-aided photographs of the four suspects have been released. Police have also tightened security checks at bus and train stations, churches and markets.", "tags": ["India", "Mumbai terror attacks", "World news"], "title": "India issues nationwide terror alert"},{"date": "2010-12-01T21:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Imagine, if it's possible, that Jeremy Paxman and Matthew Parris are recorded on tape advising a corporate lobbyist how to get her favoured MP into the coalition cabinet. Then imagine that this MP is accused of defrauding the national exchequer of billions of pounds. This is the scandal that unfolded in India last week \u2013 more disturbing and revealing for the Indian public than anything from WikiLeaks.In addition to this story, in one of the audio recordings intercepted by India's income tax department (and now widely available on the internet), Vir Sanghvi, a leading columnist and TV host, is heard offering his services to Niira Radia, a lobbyist for two of India's biggest corporate houses, the Tatas and Reliance Industries.\"What kind of story do you want?\" Sanghvi asks Radia, and goes on to offer a \"fully scripted\" and \"rehearsed\" television interview to her client, Mukesh Ambani, India's richest man. Another tape has Prabhu Chawla, an editor with India Today \u2013 India's biggest-circulation news magazine in English \u2013 explaining to Radia how Ambani might win his supreme court battle against his brother. \"Everything is fixed nowadays,\" he hints darkly. Barkha Dutt \u2013 who hosts a popular TV show called We, the People \u2013 can also be heard offering to relay messages from Radia to politicians whom Radia wants to influence in the process of forming a cabinet.Radia's candidate \u2013 A Raja \u2013 did indeed go on to become the telecommunications minister. He now stands accused of depriving the national exchequer of $39bn by selling mobile phone \"2G spectrum\" bandwidth cheaply to, among other telecom companies, Tata \u2013 represented by Radia. Under pressure from opposition parties and the supreme court, Raja resigned last month. The journalists caught on tape have preferred to brazen it out, insisting that they were only squeezing a likely source for information.At first it seemed they might get away with it when such high-circulation mainstream newspapers as the Times of India and the Hindustan Times refused to cover the scandal. But public anger, amplified by the internet, may now be making the censorship unsustainable.Yesterday Dutt appeared on her own TV channel, claiming she was guilty of nothing more than an \"error of judgment\". Her prickly defence \u2013 that only a naive journalist would see something newsworthy in the oversized influence of corporate lobbyists on political processes \u2013 pointed to a deeper rot in the New India beloved of globalised elites. As Sonia Gandhi, the Congress party leader, put it: the country's economy may \"increasingly be dynamic, but our moral universe seems to be shrinking ... The principles on which Independent India was founded, for which a generation of great leaders fought and sacrificed their all, are in danger of being negated.\"Indeed, for influential Indians the model of a \"great\" leader today is provided by Narendra Modi, the business-friendly Hindu nationalist chief minister of Gujarat who is accused of complicity in the murder of more than 2,000 Muslims in 2002. Ratan Tata, one of the most respectable names in Indian business, hails Modi as a \"dynamic leader\".It is too easy, however, to focus on the moral obtuseness of a few journalists and businessmen. A broader consensus exists within the middle class beneficiaries of India's economy, a wider culture of deference to powerful and wealthy people, and intolerance and meanness towards the poor and defenceless, and their few articulate advocates. Mainstream journalists too have succumbed to this political pathology. What the tapes reveal most vividly is not spectacular corruption \u2013 not exactly news \u2013 so much as why the supposed watchdogs of democracy have assumed the militant aggressiveness and vanity of the very privileged in a wretchedly poor country.Ratan Tata, whose conversations with Radia were also recorded, now complains that India is turning into a \"banana republic\". But Tata's own praise of Modi signified the ethical deficit among India's rich and powerful. Certainly, Sanghvi sounded like a Latin American oligarchist when, criticising the US decision to deny Modi a visa, he argued: \"Modi may be a mass murderer. But he is our mass murderer.\" Claiming to speak for the \"educated Indian middle class\", Sanghvi asserted that \"we are entirely justified in being angered\" by Arundhati Roy's recent remarks on India's military occupation of Kashmir.Marvelling about a \"concept of Indian unity\" that endorses extrajudicial execution and torture, the social psychologist Ashis Nandy recently wondered if there was \"a large enough section of India's much-vaunted middle class fully sensitive to the demands of democracy\". Or could it be that, far from upholding progressive values, many exalted Indians, including journalists, will do anything to protect \"their new-found social status and political clout\"?Certainly, these revelations and their attempted suppression by mainstream media not only validate Nandy's grim diagnosis. They also confirm his suspicion that, notwithstanding the anarchist culture of WikiLeaks, the future of censorship in India is \"very bright\".", "tags": ["India", "Censorship", "Tata", "Media", "World news"], "title": "The rotting of New India | Pankaj Mishra"},{"date": "2010-11-12T12:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "More than four millennia have passed since the many artefacts of the ancient Indus civilisation were fashioned. Yet one tiny sculpture, made by an unknown artist, still seems strikingly relevant to us today. The seal shows a seated figure on a low platform in a pose that is familiar to modern practitioners of yoga and meditation: the knees spread to the sides with the feet touching, and the arms stretch from the shoulders away from the body with the fingertips resting on the knees. Assuming the symmetrical and balanced form of a triangle, the body of the adept thus posed can endure lengthy sessions of yoga and meditation without needing to shift.The word yoga means \"to unite\" and ancient yoga was intended to prepare the body for meditation through which the individual would seek to understand his or her oneness with the totality of the universe. Once this understanding was complete, people could no more hurt another living being than themselves. Today, such practices are routinely prescribed to complement western medical and psychotherapy treatments. Among the documented benefits of yoga and its corollary, meditation, are lowered blood pressure, greater mental acuity and stress reduction.To the ancients who developed and perfected these mentally and physically challenging methods, however, yoga and meditation were tools for finding inner peace and a harmonious existence. Once you look closely, plenty more evidence points to the non-violent, peaceful nature of these early peoples. For example, the archaeological remains of the cities and towns of the Indus civilisation during its florescence from c2300-1750BC show little if any indication of internal dissent, criminality, or even the threat of war and conflict from the outside. There are no known fortifications, nor is there proof of ransacking and pillaging.There is also an emphasis on citizenship rather than a ruling elite in this period. Indeed, archaeological evidence suggests there was, in fact, no hereditary ruler \u2013 such as a king or other monarch \u2013 that amassed and controlled the wealth of the society. Thus, in contrast to the other ancient civilisations of the world, whose vast architectural and artistic undertakings, such as tombs and large-scale sculptures, served the wealthy and powerful, the Indus civilisation leaves nothing in the way of such monuments. Instead, government programmes and financial resources seem to have been directed towards the organisation of a society that benefited its citizens.Another feature that sets the ancient Indus culture apart from other early civilisations is the prominent role played by women. Among the artefacts we have been able to unearth are thousands of ceramic sculptures representing women, sometimes interpreted as goddesses, and, specifically, mother goddesses. This is a core element in the major religious developments of India, which are populated with goddesses \u2013 some supreme and others whose role is to complement male deities who would otherwise be incomplete or even powerless. It is thus hardly surprising that the symbol chosen for the nationalistic independence movement of the early 20th century and the establishment of India's modern democracy was Bharat Mata \u2013 that is, Mother India.The area's first ancient culture, the Indus or Harappan civilisation, was at its peak centred in what is now Pakistan in the northwestern reaches of south Asia. It stretched southward for a thousand miles along the western coastal areas of India. It eventually disappeared around 1750BC, because of a combination of natural and human factors. Earthquakes in the high Himalayas may have changed the course of the rivers that provided life-sustaining agricultural irrigation, leading to the abandonment of cities and towns and relocation elsewhere. In addition, the ancient inhabitants, unaware of the need to replant as they cut down trees to use for building and fuel, deforested the region, thus contributing to its transformation into the desert of today.The period that followed the Indus civilisation from c1750BC to the third century BC has left a spotty material record. But we know it was in this time that some of the most important principles of Indic civilisation appeared. Some of these precepts come from the Indus culture, but other ideas arrived in India from the outside, such as with the nomadic, Indo-European Aryans from central Asia.Perhaps the most important figure to emerge in this period was the historical Buddha, born Siddhartha Gautama in the Ganges river region of northern India in the sixth century BC. Attaining perfect knowledge at the age of 36, after a quest that involved ascetic and meditational practices, the Buddha taught what is known as the Middle Way, advocating the abandonment of both extreme asceticism and extreme luxury. The Buddha also taught that all living beings have the capacity to transform themselves from an ignorant, self-centred state to one that embodies unqualified goodwill and generosity. Enlightenment was a matter of personal responsibility: every person had to develop wisely directed compassion for all living beings along with perfect knowledge of their role in the universe.It's important to note that the historical Buddha is not considered a divine being and his followers do not worship him \u2013 rather, they revere and honour him through their practices. In art, he is shown as a human, not a superhuman being. Because there is no all-powerful central deity in Buddhism, the religion is easily compatible with other traditions and there are many people throughout the world today who combine Buddhism with another faith.A contemporary of Buddha was Mahavira: the 24th in a line of perfected human beings known as jinas, or victors, and a major figure in the Jain religion. Like the Buddha, Mahavira is not considered a god but an exemplar to his followers. When depicted in art, he and the other 24 jinas appear as highly perfected humans.Unlike Buddhism and Jainism, India's third major indigenous religion, Hinduism, did not have a human teacher to whom the beliefs and practices of the tradition may be traced. Instead, it is centred around devotion to specific deities, both supreme and minor, who are numbered among a vast pantheon of gods and goddesses. Shiva destroys the universe with his cosmic dance when it has deteriorated to the degree that it needs to be reborn; Vishnu is the protector and preserver of the world as it struggles to maintain stasis. Archaeological evidence for Hinduism appears later in India's material record than those of Buddhism and Jainism, and stone and metal artefacts portraying the host of deities are rare before the fifth century AD.All three of these Indic religions share the belief that every living being is subject to a cycle of birth and rebirth over countless aeons. Known as samsara, this cycle of transmigration is not limited to humans but includes all sentient beings. The form one will take in a future birth is determined by one's karma \u2013 a term that in modern parlance has come to mean little more than \"luck\", but the original Indic use of the word specifically refers to one's actions, which are the result of choice, not chance. The escape from samsara, called nirvana by Buddhists and moksa by Hindus and Jains, is the ultimate goal of each of the three religious traditions, and all human activity should, ideally, be directed towards improving one's karma to achieve this end.Although today we assign different names to these three religious traditions, in many ways they are considered different paths, or margs, toward a similar objective. Within Indic culture, and indeed even within families, individuals have been free to choose their own marg, and we have no evidence of religious conflict among these traditions.Around the third century BC, a mix of internal cultural evolution and stimulating contact with ancient western Asia and the Mediterranean worlds brought change to the Indic regions. The arrival of Alexander the Great in the northwestern region of south Asia in 327BC, and the collapse of the ancient Persian Empire, introduced new ideas \u2013 including the development of the concept of kingship, and technologies such as the tools and knowledge necessary for large-scale stone carving. Had Alexander succeeded in conquering the Indian subcontinent \u2013 mutiny and fatigue among his troops is said to have caused a retreat \u2013 one can only imagine how Indian history might have evolved. As it stands, his legacy is mainly cultural, not political, as the pathways across western Asia that he forged remained open for trade and economic exchange for centuries after his death.One thing to pass through this gateway was a system of rule by kingship, which took hold of northern India in the rich lands fertilised by the life-giving Ganges river. The most renowned of India's first kings was Ashoka, who even today is admired by India's leaders as a paradigm of the benevolent ruler. After years engaged in waging war to aggrandise his empire, Ashoka, having seen some 150,000 people carried away as captives, 100,000 more slain, and many more dead after his final conquest, was struck with remorse at the suffering he had caused. Converting to Buddhism, Ashoka spent the remainder of his life in righteous, peaceful activities. His benevolent kingship was adopted as a model throughout Asia as Buddhism moved beyond its Indic homeland. The set of four lions portrayed on one of his most famous monuments \u2013 the stone pillar he erected at Sarnath, where the Buddha taught his first sermon \u2013 has become a ubiquitous symbol of India's modern democracy, and is used on coins, stamps, government stationery, and elsewhere to laud the modern nation's roots in enlightened rulership.As suggested by the artefacts that have survived and what we know about the religious and philosophical beliefs of the people, the period 2500BC-AD500 in ancient India was one of extraordinary cultural brilliance, with innovations and traditions that still leave their mark on the world today. Furthermore, the cultural continuity between India's past and present is unmatched in the other regions of the world. The modern societies in Egypt, Mesopotamia, Greece, Rome, the Americas and China for the most part bear little resemblance to their ancient counterparts. Indeed, what is striking from an overview of the early phases of India's long and rich cultural development is the fact that so many of the features in evidence through the material record have had a persistent and lasting effect on Indic society and the world.Ancient India's legacy in the fields of science and mathematics is significant. Mathematics was important to the layout of religious buildings and the philosophical comprehension of the cosmos. The fifth century AD astronomer and mathematician Aryabhata is credited with originating the modern decimal system, which is predicated on an understanding of the concept of zero. Evidence of the Indic origin of the idea of zero, including the use of a small circle to denote the numeral, is found in Sanskrit texts and inscriptions.Another cultural legacy is an ancient branch of medicine known as Ayurveda, still widely practiced in India today. It has also gained popularity in the western world as a \"complementary\" medicine. Translating literally as \"science of life\", it conceives basic principles for human health and points to physical and mental balance as the means to wellbeing.Perhaps ancient India's most lasting legacy is the belief in non-harm to living beings \u2013 a centrepiece of Buddhism, Jainism and Hinduism \u2013 which was transformed into the passive resistance advocated by Mahatma Gandhi during India's early 20th century struggle for independence from British rule. After Gandhi, many other modern luminaries have been guided by the principle of non-violence in their quests for social justice, most famously Reverend Martin Luther King, who spearheaded the struggle for racial equality in the US during the 1960s. In his autobiography, King notes that \"Gandhi was the guiding light of our technique of non-violent social change\" during the bus boycott in 1956 that ended Alabama's transport segregation on the city's buses. John F. Kennedy, Nelson Mandela and Barack Obama have also claimed inspiration from Mahatma Gandhi and the ancient Indian principle of non-harm, and the Indic compassion towards all living beings and the corresponding non-violent stance has been adopted by groups that advocate vegetarianism, animal welfare and environmental activism. Perhaps there is no greater compliment that can be paid to India's ancient culture than the fact that its sophisticated beliefs and reverence for life can serve as guideposts to the world today. Susan L Huntington is professor in art history at Ohio State University. Among other books, she is the author of the Art of Ancient India (Weatherhill)", "tags": ["Culture", "India", "Religion", "Philosophy", "Archaeology", "Science", "World news", "Art and design"], "title": "The Ancient World | India"},{"date": "2010-10-26T13:01:39Z", "country": "india", "content": "Sir Arthur said, \"stuff and nonsense\" (or words to that effect). \"We can't station British troops at Bangalore. It might be healthy up there, but there's not enough water.\" In 1805 Wellesley left India and the troops were moved up to Bangalore on the Deccan highlands. No doubt they suffered from water shortages as we still do today.The earliest rulers of Bangalore knew that even a small community could only survive on the Deccan if water was carefully conserved. Artificial lakes were created round the city and were joined by water channels. As governments changed and land values increased, many lakes disappeared and channels became blocked. We are in a strange position because, at the end of our road, we have the memory of a lake.Parks are important in modern Bangalore, where few people have gardens. Our local lake has become a park. There is still a lake in the middle, and walking round it is a morning exercise for many of our neighbours. There are groups of women and retired men who do their socialising then. They walk together every morning, exchange news and gossip, and plan other meetings. Some groups bring bread to throw at the large, whiskery carp that live in the lake and enjoy the resultant feeding frenzy. The more romantic sit and watch the birds flying over the water.We realised quite soon that while these groups were social, for others the park provided a moment of privacy. Ours is a traditional neighbourhood, where large families live in small dwellings and the women are often together in one room while the men are in another. In the morning, we pass shy young couples holding hands on secluded benches. They are in new arranged marriages and slowly beginning to get to know each other. Older couples also use their time in the park this way. As they walk, they can discuss family matters and, away from the house, express themselves in non-traditional ways. One morning we walked towards an elderly couple, both walking fast and vigorously, discussing some arrangements. Suddenly, the husband took his wife's face between his hands and gave her a smacking kiss. We didn't need to hear what she said because the body language was so clear.\"Get away! Be decent! What will people think?\" But then they exchanged a warm, private smile.", "tags": ["India"], "title": "India: Dry humour in Bangalore"},{"date": "2010-12-18T00:06:43Z", "country": "india", "content": "Christmas. Fraught, innit? If your family is complicated \u2013 either in the sense that it just is, because it's a family and nothing's ever simple, or in the multiply divorced, \"blended\" sense \u2013 the urge to opt out of full-on Christmas can be overwhelming. I have a couple of friends who are planning to spend theirs blissfully alone this year, hunkered in a Slanket, with a pile of mince pies and the telly, not because they are friendless orphans but because they've got to the point where they simply can't be doing with any of it. As the Christmas frenzy builds to its usual hysterical pitch, it's not hard to see the appeal of being alone, clad in toasty winceyette and lovingly ogling a chocolate orange. Well, up to a point. Personally, I'd start feeling a bit lonely at about 4pm. Similarly, I can sort of see the appeal of a split Christmas, but it has its limitations.A split Christmas is what all the people who simply can't countenance a \"traditional\" family Christmas do \u2013 they spend the day itself with their partners and children and then go haring off up and down motorways from Boxing Day onwards to go and be dutiful to the rest of their families. This makes a kind of sense \u2013 the actual 25th is relatively stress free, aside from the giant doom-cloud cast by the thought of the days to come \u2013 but I'd argue that what you gain in sanity you lose over the next few days through a combination of exhaustion, road rage, weather anxiety and bad temper. Worse, it's that very specific, extra-tiring kind of exhaustion you get when you're doing something you don't particularly want to do, and, in some cases, not even being thanked for it (someone I know has a mother-in-law who has never, not once, thanked her for a present with any tiny measure of enthusiasm \u2013 not in 15 years). Plus, there's a limit to how many Christmas dinners one can eat/paper crowns one can wear/forced rictuses of \"jolliness\" one can convincingly contort one's face into.Also, Boxing Day is for lying beached on the sofa, not for being stuck in a snowdrift halfway to Yorkshire with fractious children in the back and a faulty satnav. You might think that the solution to all of this is to run away \u2013 abroad, specifically. The appeal of abroad becomes overwhelming at this\u00a0time of year: I can't be the only person to have fallen into a lovely daydream in the middle of vile Oxford Street in early December, hemmed in by bad-tempered shoppers and felled by a rising sense of panic about the elusive perfect present for X or Y, that involves heat, empty beaches, a fish on a banana leaf for Christmas lunch, communion with nature and a big fat no to excess and expense. One year I looked into renting houses in Byron Bay, Australia, until it occurred to me that the expense of getting everybody out there was practically akin to giving\u00a0everyone Faberg\u00e9 eggs in their\u00a0stockings.Except that escape is overrated: there's no homesickness like Christmas homesickness. I've come to the conclusion that the only thing to do is to embrace tradition. Even if you don't have much truck with tradition, the other 364 days of the year, even if your family set-up is anything other than traditional, even if the very word \"tradition\" brings you out in hives and makes you think nebulous dark thoughts about dodgy political parties and \"Britishness\". Tradition works at Christmas and works best of all if your family isn't of the 2.4 variety. Tradition decrees that you get all your family \u2013 blood and extended, former and future, nice and tiresome, old and young \u2013 stick them in a room and celebrate the day. And, miraculously, it works.Trust me: I'm a veteran of this approach. This is my usual Christmas guest list: me, my three children, my mother, my sisters, my sisters' partners and children, the father of my sons, the father of my daughter, my two former mothers-in-law, one mother-in-law's new husband, my sister-formerly-in-law, friends who started coming for Christmas and are now part of the fixtures, and a small number of strays or randoms, plus relatives who live abroad but have decided to appear. That's for lunch itself. Prior to lunch, we have various people coming in and out for drinks. I don't know that my version of traditional is necessarily what the Daily Mail has in mind, but I don't see why nuclear families should have a monopoly.Sometimes, it's just easier to give in. I don't mean give in, as in, let's spend an insane amount of money and make our hair fall out with stress when the credit card bills come in January \u2013 though, even there, tradition is on your side. Tradition doesn't say, hey \u2013 why not spend money as though you'd just won the lottery? No. Tradition says make some fudge, knit someone a scarf, buy really cheap wine and mull it. Equally pleasingly, tradition doesn't say do all the donkey work yourself because you are a woman. It says it in many other contexts, admittedly, but when it comes to Christmas, it actively encourages family participation. And family participation engenders good feeling because it makes people feel part of things, rather than like semi-unwanted guests. My own embrace of tradition relies heavily on participation: it may sound absurd, but getting people to help peel the vegetables on Christmas Eve makes them feel useful and wanted. Especially if you chuck in a vatful of mulled wine.I have a bee in my bonnet about all of this stuff. I love Christmas with a passion. To be honest, I've always liked it well enough but I only started really loving it when I put myself in charge. I am the boss of Christmas and, without wanting to toot my own trumpet too loudly, I've got it down to a fine art. What you think about Christmas is subjective, obviously, but to me it boils down to two things \u2013 family and memories. Even people who claim not to care about Christmas, or to actively hate it, can remember precisely where they were for it; equally, a really fantastic Christmas (usually a childhood one that takes on mythical qualities in retrospect) sticks in your head for all eternity.The family/memory thing converges neatly if you have children and is, I think, particularly important if you're no longer with those children's father or mother. There was a Christmas a few years ago, shortly after I'd separated from the father of my daughter, where I became almost deranged with the desire to make the whole day extra-fantastic, purely because the alternative was so tragic \u2013 weepy mother, long silences, awkward pauses, the sense for the children that things are not as they were. This is yet another instance of tradition coming to the rescue: if you embrace the traditional Christmas, things are always as they were, even if the cast expands every few years. The tree is where the tree always was; the ancient baubles come down from the attic, as they do every year; the fairy someone made in year one sits on top of the tree, as it always did; the day's familiar rhythms are as soothing as a warm blanket.But it's more than that: your family wake up in their own beds, with their stockings lying in wait \u2013 I don't know how to explain it without sounding grotesquely sentimental, but these things matter. You could be in the smartest hotel in the world, or in a heavenly rented cottage somewhere idyllic but you would never be able to recreate those rhythms.They rely too heavily on tradition, on the fact that Father Christmas needs to watch the creaky step when going about his business, on the smell of the house, on the feel of the slightly shabby sofa you have at home, on the lovely familiarity of the day. I don't think any of this applies exclusively to children, the idea that things change and families evolve but Christmas stays the same \u2013 I am 44, and it absolutely applies to me, too; I'd like to think it applied to the rest of my grown-up relatives too. Put bluntly, Christmas reminds everyone of childhood, and what this means is that even the Grinchiest people have a secret longing for it to be wonderful.If you're wily enough to build on that feeling, it can override all others \u2013 personal antipathies, difficult divorces, Auntie Ethel quietly (or not) losing her marbles in the corner, your new stepdad not being all that. It's partly to do with safety in numbers \u2013 at the very least, chucking in a brace of assorted relatives varies the mood. But mostly it's because all adults are capable of being lovely \u2013 of setting differences aside and declaring an emotional armistice, for one tiny little day a year: all you have to do is ask them along happily and in good faith. One tiny little day that makes a huge difference.I remember December 1978. My parents had split up when I was two; I loved (and continue to love) my stepfather; I was 13. For some reason I can't remember, my dad and his wife, who lived in Brussels at the time, appeared for Christmas morning. It sounds mad, but I hadn't seen my mother and father in a benign domestic context \u2013 lounging around on sofas with glasses of wine, laughing their heads off over something or other \u2013 in my entire life. The moment passed, and the day moved on and was as lovely as ever, but I've never forgotten that particular vignette. So don't think that family Christmases aren't for you because your family isn't straightforward. Don't run away abroad, or bah-humbug yourself under the duvet. Embrace the chaos. It's only once a year, and you never know \u2013 you might even find it's habit-forming.Comfort and Joy by India Knight is published by Fig Tree, \u00a314.99. To order a copy for \u00a311.99 with free UK p&p, go to theguardian.com/bookshop or call 0330 333 6846", "tags": ["Family", "Christmas", "Life and style"], "title": "India Knight: Recipe for a happy Christmas"},{"date": "2010-12-28T13:49:58Z", "country": "india", "content": "Indian authorities have deployed thousands of security personnel following warnings that Lashkar-e-Taiba, the Pakistan-based militant group, is planning an attack over the New Year weekend.Police officers and paramilitaries were on high alert across the country, including in India's financial capital, Mumbai, Indian officials said. House-to-house searches were under way in some areas of the city, which was attacked by Lashkar-e-Taiba in November 2008. Airports and railway stations, the city of Ahmedabad in the western state of Gujarat and the popular beach resort state of Goa were also on high alert following the warning, said to be based on \"human\" intelligence and received in recent days.Most of the locations covered by the alert had been visited by David Headley, a Pakistani-American and member of Lashkar-e-Taiba who travelled widely in India before the Mumbai attack, one official told the Guardian. Headley was tasked by the extremist group with surveillance of targets in Mumbai itself but also visited Goa and the city of Pune, where there was a blast in February.According to a secret report by Indian investigators of their interrogation of Headley in June, the undercover militant brought back film and notes on potential targets in India such as Jewish centres and tourist resorts favoured by Israelis which he passed on to his handlers.In his interrogation, Headley claimed that he frequently combined missions for Lashkar-e-Taiba with missions for the main Pakistani spy agency, the Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate (ISI). His last trips to India before his arrest in Chicago in October last year were on behalf of a veteran Pakistani militant with links to al-Qaida called Ilyas Kashmiri, he said.India has taken all terror threats seriously since the three-day terrorist siege killed 166 people in Mumbai two years ago, when 10 armed terrorists landed by sea before fanning out across the city to attack two luxury hotels, a Jewish centre and a railway station. The strike badly damaged Indian relations with Pakistan.In March, Mumbai police said they prevented a major terrorist strike after they arrested two Indian men, who they believed were preparing to hit several targets in the city.Then in September police issued a terror alert for the city during a popular Hindu festival after receiving information that two Islamist militants were planning a terror strike acting on directions from handlers in Pakistan.Earlier this month a small bomb exploded in the northern city of Varanasi, which is holy to Hindus. The attack was blamed on Indian Muslim militants.Police have been searching since Friday for four men who authorities believe have entered Mumbai to carry out a terrorist attack. Computer-aided photographs of the four suspects have been released. Police have also tightened security checks at bus and train stations, churches and markets.", "tags": ["India", "Mumbai terror attacks", "World news"], "title": "India issues nationwide terror alert"},{"date": "2010-12-01T21:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Imagine, if it's possible, that Jeremy Paxman and Matthew Parris are recorded on tape advising a corporate lobbyist how to get her favoured MP into the coalition cabinet. Then imagine that this MP is accused of defrauding the national exchequer of billions of pounds. This is the scandal that unfolded in India last week \u2013 more disturbing and revealing for the Indian public than anything from WikiLeaks.In addition to this story, in one of the audio recordings intercepted by India's income tax department (and now widely available on the internet), Vir Sanghvi, a leading columnist and TV host, is heard offering his services to Niira Radia, a lobbyist for two of India's biggest corporate houses, the Tatas and Reliance Industries.\"What kind of story do you want?\" Sanghvi asks Radia, and goes on to offer a \"fully scripted\" and \"rehearsed\" television interview to her client, Mukesh Ambani, India's richest man. Another tape has Prabhu Chawla, an editor with India Today \u2013 India's biggest-circulation news magazine in English \u2013 explaining to Radia how Ambani might win his supreme court battle against his brother. \"Everything is fixed nowadays,\" he hints darkly. Barkha Dutt \u2013 who hosts a popular TV show called We, the People \u2013 can also be heard offering to relay messages from Radia to politicians whom Radia wants to influence in the process of forming a cabinet.Radia's candidate \u2013 A Raja \u2013 did indeed go on to become the telecommunications minister. He now stands accused of depriving the national exchequer of $39bn by selling mobile phone \"2G spectrum\" bandwidth cheaply to, among other telecom companies, Tata \u2013 represented by Radia. Under pressure from opposition parties and the supreme court, Raja resigned last month. The journalists caught on tape have preferred to brazen it out, insisting that they were only squeezing a likely source for information.At first it seemed they might get away with it when such high-circulation mainstream newspapers as the Times of India and the Hindustan Times refused to cover the scandal. But public anger, amplified by the internet, may now be making the censorship unsustainable.Yesterday Dutt appeared on her own TV channel, claiming she was guilty of nothing more than an \"error of judgment\". Her prickly defence \u2013 that only a naive journalist would see something newsworthy in the oversized influence of corporate lobbyists on political processes \u2013 pointed to a deeper rot in the New India beloved of globalised elites. As Sonia Gandhi, the Congress party leader, put it: the country's economy may \"increasingly be dynamic, but our moral universe seems to be shrinking ... The principles on which Independent India was founded, for which a generation of great leaders fought and sacrificed their all, are in danger of being negated.\"Indeed, for influential Indians the model of a \"great\" leader today is provided by Narendra Modi, the business-friendly Hindu nationalist chief minister of Gujarat who is accused of complicity in the murder of more than 2,000 Muslims in 2002. Ratan Tata, one of the most respectable names in Indian business, hails Modi as a \"dynamic leader\".It is too easy, however, to focus on the moral obtuseness of a few journalists and businessmen. A broader consensus exists within the middle class beneficiaries of India's economy, a wider culture of deference to powerful and wealthy people, and intolerance and meanness towards the poor and defenceless, and their few articulate advocates. Mainstream journalists too have succumbed to this political pathology. What the tapes reveal most vividly is not spectacular corruption \u2013 not exactly news \u2013 so much as why the supposed watchdogs of democracy have assumed the militant aggressiveness and vanity of the very privileged in a wretchedly poor country.Ratan Tata, whose conversations with Radia were also recorded, now complains that India is turning into a \"banana republic\". But Tata's own praise of Modi signified the ethical deficit among India's rich and powerful. Certainly, Sanghvi sounded like a Latin American oligarchist when, criticising the US decision to deny Modi a visa, he argued: \"Modi may be a mass murderer. But he is our mass murderer.\" Claiming to speak for the \"educated Indian middle class\", Sanghvi asserted that \"we are entirely justified in being angered\" by Arundhati Roy's recent remarks on India's military occupation of Kashmir.Marvelling about a \"concept of Indian unity\" that endorses extrajudicial execution and torture, the social psychologist Ashis Nandy recently wondered if there was \"a large enough section of India's much-vaunted middle class fully sensitive to the demands of democracy\". Or could it be that, far from upholding progressive values, many exalted Indians, including journalists, will do anything to protect \"their new-found social status and political clout\"?Certainly, these revelations and their attempted suppression by mainstream media not only validate Nandy's grim diagnosis. They also confirm his suspicion that, notwithstanding the anarchist culture of WikiLeaks, the future of censorship in India is \"very bright\".", "tags": ["India", "Censorship", "Tata", "Media", "World news"], "title": "The rotting of New India | Pankaj Mishra"},{"date": "2010-11-12T12:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "More than four millennia have passed since the many artefacts of the ancient Indus civilisation were fashioned. Yet one tiny sculpture, made by an unknown artist, still seems strikingly relevant to us today. The seal shows a seated figure on a low platform in a pose that is familiar to modern practitioners of yoga and meditation: the knees spread to the sides with the feet touching, and the arms stretch from the shoulders away from the body with the fingertips resting on the knees. Assuming the symmetrical and balanced form of a triangle, the body of the adept thus posed can endure lengthy sessions of yoga and meditation without needing to shift.The word yoga means \"to unite\" and ancient yoga was intended to prepare the body for meditation through which the individual would seek to understand his or her oneness with the totality of the universe. Once this understanding was complete, people could no more hurt another living being than themselves. Today, such practices are routinely prescribed to complement western medical and psychotherapy treatments. Among the documented benefits of yoga and its corollary, meditation, are lowered blood pressure, greater mental acuity and stress reduction.To the ancients who developed and perfected these mentally and physically challenging methods, however, yoga and meditation were tools for finding inner peace and a harmonious existence. Once you look closely, plenty more evidence points to the non-violent, peaceful nature of these early peoples. For example, the archaeological remains of the cities and towns of the Indus civilisation during its florescence from c2300-1750BC show little if any indication of internal dissent, criminality, or even the threat of war and conflict from the outside. There are no known fortifications, nor is there proof of ransacking and pillaging.There is also an emphasis on citizenship rather than a ruling elite in this period. Indeed, archaeological evidence suggests there was, in fact, no hereditary ruler \u2013 such as a king or other monarch \u2013 that amassed and controlled the wealth of the society. Thus, in contrast to the other ancient civilisations of the world, whose vast architectural and artistic undertakings, such as tombs and large-scale sculptures, served the wealthy and powerful, the Indus civilisation leaves nothing in the way of such monuments. Instead, government programmes and financial resources seem to have been directed towards the organisation of a society that benefited its citizens.Another feature that sets the ancient Indus culture apart from other early civilisations is the prominent role played by women. Among the artefacts we have been able to unearth are thousands of ceramic sculptures representing women, sometimes interpreted as goddesses, and, specifically, mother goddesses. This is a core element in the major religious developments of India, which are populated with goddesses \u2013 some supreme and others whose role is to complement male deities who would otherwise be incomplete or even powerless. It is thus hardly surprising that the symbol chosen for the nationalistic independence movement of the early 20th century and the establishment of India's modern democracy was Bharat Mata \u2013 that is, Mother India.The area's first ancient culture, the Indus or Harappan civilisation, was at its peak centred in what is now Pakistan in the northwestern reaches of south Asia. It stretched southward for a thousand miles along the western coastal areas of India. It eventually disappeared around 1750BC, because of a combination of natural and human factors. Earthquakes in the high Himalayas may have changed the course of the rivers that provided life-sustaining agricultural irrigation, leading to the abandonment of cities and towns and relocation elsewhere. In addition, the ancient inhabitants, unaware of the need to replant as they cut down trees to use for building and fuel, deforested the region, thus contributing to its transformation into the desert of today.The period that followed the Indus civilisation from c1750BC to the third century BC has left a spotty material record. But we know it was in this time that some of the most important principles of Indic civilisation appeared. Some of these precepts come from the Indus culture, but other ideas arrived in India from the outside, such as with the nomadic, Indo-European Aryans from central Asia.Perhaps the most important figure to emerge in this period was the historical Buddha, born Siddhartha Gautama in the Ganges river region of northern India in the sixth century BC. Attaining perfect knowledge at the age of 36, after a quest that involved ascetic and meditational practices, the Buddha taught what is known as the Middle Way, advocating the abandonment of both extreme asceticism and extreme luxury. The Buddha also taught that all living beings have the capacity to transform themselves from an ignorant, self-centred state to one that embodies unqualified goodwill and generosity. Enlightenment was a matter of personal responsibility: every person had to develop wisely directed compassion for all living beings along with perfect knowledge of their role in the universe.It's important to note that the historical Buddha is not considered a divine being and his followers do not worship him \u2013 rather, they revere and honour him through their practices. In art, he is shown as a human, not a superhuman being. Because there is no all-powerful central deity in Buddhism, the religion is easily compatible with other traditions and there are many people throughout the world today who combine Buddhism with another faith.A contemporary of Buddha was Mahavira: the 24th in a line of perfected human beings known as jinas, or victors, and a major figure in the Jain religion. Like the Buddha, Mahavira is not considered a god but an exemplar to his followers. When depicted in art, he and the other 24 jinas appear as highly perfected humans.Unlike Buddhism and Jainism, India's third major indigenous religion, Hinduism, did not have a human teacher to whom the beliefs and practices of the tradition may be traced. Instead, it is centred around devotion to specific deities, both supreme and minor, who are numbered among a vast pantheon of gods and goddesses. Shiva destroys the universe with his cosmic dance when it has deteriorated to the degree that it needs to be reborn; Vishnu is the protector and preserver of the world as it struggles to maintain stasis. Archaeological evidence for Hinduism appears later in India's material record than those of Buddhism and Jainism, and stone and metal artefacts portraying the host of deities are rare before the fifth century AD.All three of these Indic religions share the belief that every living being is subject to a cycle of birth and rebirth over countless aeons. Known as samsara, this cycle of transmigration is not limited to humans but includes all sentient beings. The form one will take in a future birth is determined by one's karma \u2013 a term that in modern parlance has come to mean little more than \"luck\", but the original Indic use of the word specifically refers to one's actions, which are the result of choice, not chance. The escape from samsara, called nirvana by Buddhists and moksa by Hindus and Jains, is the ultimate goal of each of the three religious traditions, and all human activity should, ideally, be directed towards improving one's karma to achieve this end.Although today we assign different names to these three religious traditions, in many ways they are considered different paths, or margs, toward a similar objective. Within Indic culture, and indeed even within families, individuals have been free to choose their own marg, and we have no evidence of religious conflict among these traditions.Around the third century BC, a mix of internal cultural evolution and stimulating contact with ancient western Asia and the Mediterranean worlds brought change to the Indic regions. The arrival of Alexander the Great in the northwestern region of south Asia in 327BC, and the collapse of the ancient Persian Empire, introduced new ideas \u2013 including the development of the concept of kingship, and technologies such as the tools and knowledge necessary for large-scale stone carving. Had Alexander succeeded in conquering the Indian subcontinent \u2013 mutiny and fatigue among his troops is said to have caused a retreat \u2013 one can only imagine how Indian history might have evolved. As it stands, his legacy is mainly cultural, not political, as the pathways across western Asia that he forged remained open for trade and economic exchange for centuries after his death.One thing to pass through this gateway was a system of rule by kingship, which took hold of northern India in the rich lands fertilised by the life-giving Ganges river. The most renowned of India's first kings was Ashoka, who even today is admired by India's leaders as a paradigm of the benevolent ruler. After years engaged in waging war to aggrandise his empire, Ashoka, having seen some 150,000 people carried away as captives, 100,000 more slain, and many more dead after his final conquest, was struck with remorse at the suffering he had caused. Converting to Buddhism, Ashoka spent the remainder of his life in righteous, peaceful activities. His benevolent kingship was adopted as a model throughout Asia as Buddhism moved beyond its Indic homeland. The set of four lions portrayed on one of his most famous monuments \u2013 the stone pillar he erected at Sarnath, where the Buddha taught his first sermon \u2013 has become a ubiquitous symbol of India's modern democracy, and is used on coins, stamps, government stationery, and elsewhere to laud the modern nation's roots in enlightened rulership.As suggested by the artefacts that have survived and what we know about the religious and philosophical beliefs of the people, the period 2500BC-AD500 in ancient India was one of extraordinary cultural brilliance, with innovations and traditions that still leave their mark on the world today. Furthermore, the cultural continuity between India's past and present is unmatched in the other regions of the world. The modern societies in Egypt, Mesopotamia, Greece, Rome, the Americas and China for the most part bear little resemblance to their ancient counterparts. Indeed, what is striking from an overview of the early phases of India's long and rich cultural development is the fact that so many of the features in evidence through the material record have had a persistent and lasting effect on Indic society and the world.Ancient India's legacy in the fields of science and mathematics is significant. Mathematics was important to the layout of religious buildings and the philosophical comprehension of the cosmos. The fifth century AD astronomer and mathematician Aryabhata is credited with originating the modern decimal system, which is predicated on an understanding of the concept of zero. Evidence of the Indic origin of the idea of zero, including the use of a small circle to denote the numeral, is found in Sanskrit texts and inscriptions.Another cultural legacy is an ancient branch of medicine known as Ayurveda, still widely practiced in India today. It has also gained popularity in the western world as a \"complementary\" medicine. Translating literally as \"science of life\", it conceives basic principles for human health and points to physical and mental balance as the means to wellbeing.Perhaps ancient India's most lasting legacy is the belief in non-harm to living beings \u2013 a centrepiece of Buddhism, Jainism and Hinduism \u2013 which was transformed into the passive resistance advocated by Mahatma Gandhi during India's early 20th century struggle for independence from British rule. After Gandhi, many other modern luminaries have been guided by the principle of non-violence in their quests for social justice, most famously Reverend Martin Luther King, who spearheaded the struggle for racial equality in the US during the 1960s. In his autobiography, King notes that \"Gandhi was the guiding light of our technique of non-violent social change\" during the bus boycott in 1956 that ended Alabama's transport segregation on the city's buses. John F. Kennedy, Nelson Mandela and Barack Obama have also claimed inspiration from Mahatma Gandhi and the ancient Indian principle of non-harm, and the Indic compassion towards all living beings and the corresponding non-violent stance has been adopted by groups that advocate vegetarianism, animal welfare and environmental activism. Perhaps there is no greater compliment that can be paid to India's ancient culture than the fact that its sophisticated beliefs and reverence for life can serve as guideposts to the world today. Susan L Huntington is professor in art history at Ohio State University. Among other books, she is the author of the Art of Ancient India (Weatherhill)", "tags": ["Culture", "India", "Religion", "Philosophy", "Archaeology", "Science", "World news", "Art and design"], "title": "The Ancient World | India"},{"date": "2010-10-26T13:01:39Z", "country": "india", "content": "Sir Arthur said, \"stuff and nonsense\" (or words to that effect). \"We can't station British troops at Bangalore. It might be healthy up there, but there's not enough water.\" In 1805 Wellesley left India and the troops were moved up to Bangalore on the Deccan highlands. No doubt they suffered from water shortages as we still do today.The earliest rulers of Bangalore knew that even a small community could only survive on the Deccan if water was carefully conserved. Artificial lakes were created round the city and were joined by water channels. As governments changed and land values increased, many lakes disappeared and channels became blocked. We are in a strange position because, at the end of our road, we have the memory of a lake.Parks are important in modern Bangalore, where few people have gardens. Our local lake has become a park. There is still a lake in the middle, and walking round it is a morning exercise for many of our neighbours. There are groups of women and retired men who do their socialising then. They walk together every morning, exchange news and gossip, and plan other meetings. Some groups bring bread to throw at the large, whiskery carp that live in the lake and enjoy the resultant feeding frenzy. The more romantic sit and watch the birds flying over the water.We realised quite soon that while these groups were social, for others the park provided a moment of privacy. Ours is a traditional neighbourhood, where large families live in small dwellings and the women are often together in one room while the men are in another. In the morning, we pass shy young couples holding hands on secluded benches. They are in new arranged marriages and slowly beginning to get to know each other. Older couples also use their time in the park this way. As they walk, they can discuss family matters and, away from the house, express themselves in non-traditional ways. One morning we walked towards an elderly couple, both walking fast and vigorously, discussing some arrangements. Suddenly, the husband took his wife's face between his hands and gave her a smacking kiss. We didn't need to hear what she said because the body language was so clear.\"Get away! Be decent! What will people think?\" But then they exchanged a warm, private smile.", "tags": ["India"], "title": "India: Dry humour in Bangalore"},{"date": "2010-12-18T00:06:43Z", "country": "india", "content": "Christmas. Fraught, innit? If your family is complicated \u2013 either in the sense that it just is, because it's a family and nothing's ever simple, or in the multiply divorced, \"blended\" sense \u2013 the urge to opt out of full-on Christmas can be overwhelming. I have a couple of friends who are planning to spend theirs blissfully alone this year, hunkered in a Slanket, with a pile of mince pies and the telly, not because they are friendless orphans but because they've got to the point where they simply can't be doing with any of it. As the Christmas frenzy builds to its usual hysterical pitch, it's not hard to see the appeal of being alone, clad in toasty winceyette and lovingly ogling a chocolate orange. Well, up to a point. Personally, I'd start feeling a bit lonely at about 4pm. Similarly, I can sort of see the appeal of a split Christmas, but it has its limitations.A split Christmas is what all the people who simply can't countenance a \"traditional\" family Christmas do \u2013 they spend the day itself with their partners and children and then go haring off up and down motorways from Boxing Day onwards to go and be dutiful to the rest of their families. This makes a kind of sense \u2013 the actual 25th is relatively stress free, aside from the giant doom-cloud cast by the thought of the days to come \u2013 but I'd argue that what you gain in sanity you lose over the next few days through a combination of exhaustion, road rage, weather anxiety and bad temper. Worse, it's that very specific, extra-tiring kind of exhaustion you get when you're doing something you don't particularly want to do, and, in some cases, not even being thanked for it (someone I know has a mother-in-law who has never, not once, thanked her for a present with any tiny measure of enthusiasm \u2013 not in 15 years). Plus, there's a limit to how many Christmas dinners one can eat/paper crowns one can wear/forced rictuses of \"jolliness\" one can convincingly contort one's face into.Also, Boxing Day is for lying beached on the sofa, not for being stuck in a snowdrift halfway to Yorkshire with fractious children in the back and a faulty satnav. You might think that the solution to all of this is to run away \u2013 abroad, specifically. The appeal of abroad becomes overwhelming at this\u00a0time of year: I can't be the only person to have fallen into a lovely daydream in the middle of vile Oxford Street in early December, hemmed in by bad-tempered shoppers and felled by a rising sense of panic about the elusive perfect present for X or Y, that involves heat, empty beaches, a fish on a banana leaf for Christmas lunch, communion with nature and a big fat no to excess and expense. One year I looked into renting houses in Byron Bay, Australia, until it occurred to me that the expense of getting everybody out there was practically akin to giving\u00a0everyone Faberg\u00e9 eggs in their\u00a0stockings.Except that escape is overrated: there's no homesickness like Christmas homesickness. I've come to the conclusion that the only thing to do is to embrace tradition. Even if you don't have much truck with tradition, the other 364 days of the year, even if your family set-up is anything other than traditional, even if the very word \"tradition\" brings you out in hives and makes you think nebulous dark thoughts about dodgy political parties and \"Britishness\". Tradition works at Christmas and works best of all if your family isn't of the 2.4 variety. Tradition decrees that you get all your family \u2013 blood and extended, former and future, nice and tiresome, old and young \u2013 stick them in a room and celebrate the day. And, miraculously, it works.Trust me: I'm a veteran of this approach. This is my usual Christmas guest list: me, my three children, my mother, my sisters, my sisters' partners and children, the father of my sons, the father of my daughter, my two former mothers-in-law, one mother-in-law's new husband, my sister-formerly-in-law, friends who started coming for Christmas and are now part of the fixtures, and a small number of strays or randoms, plus relatives who live abroad but have decided to appear. That's for lunch itself. Prior to lunch, we have various people coming in and out for drinks. I don't know that my version of traditional is necessarily what the Daily Mail has in mind, but I don't see why nuclear families should have a monopoly.Sometimes, it's just easier to give in. I don't mean give in, as in, let's spend an insane amount of money and make our hair fall out with stress when the credit card bills come in January \u2013 though, even there, tradition is on your side. Tradition doesn't say, hey \u2013 why not spend money as though you'd just won the lottery? No. Tradition says make some fudge, knit someone a scarf, buy really cheap wine and mull it. Equally pleasingly, tradition doesn't say do all the donkey work yourself because you are a woman. It says it in many other contexts, admittedly, but when it comes to Christmas, it actively encourages family participation. And family participation engenders good feeling because it makes people feel part of things, rather than like semi-unwanted guests. My own embrace of tradition relies heavily on participation: it may sound absurd, but getting people to help peel the vegetables on Christmas Eve makes them feel useful and wanted. Especially if you chuck in a vatful of mulled wine.I have a bee in my bonnet about all of this stuff. I love Christmas with a passion. To be honest, I've always liked it well enough but I only started really loving it when I put myself in charge. I am the boss of Christmas and, without wanting to toot my own trumpet too loudly, I've got it down to a fine art. What you think about Christmas is subjective, obviously, but to me it boils down to two things \u2013 family and memories. Even people who claim not to care about Christmas, or to actively hate it, can remember precisely where they were for it; equally, a really fantastic Christmas (usually a childhood one that takes on mythical qualities in retrospect) sticks in your head for all eternity.The family/memory thing converges neatly if you have children and is, I think, particularly important if you're no longer with those children's father or mother. There was a Christmas a few years ago, shortly after I'd separated from the father of my daughter, where I became almost deranged with the desire to make the whole day extra-fantastic, purely because the alternative was so tragic \u2013 weepy mother, long silences, awkward pauses, the sense for the children that things are not as they were. This is yet another instance of tradition coming to the rescue: if you embrace the traditional Christmas, things are always as they were, even if the cast expands every few years. The tree is where the tree always was; the ancient baubles come down from the attic, as they do every year; the fairy someone made in year one sits on top of the tree, as it always did; the day's familiar rhythms are as soothing as a warm blanket.But it's more than that: your family wake up in their own beds, with their stockings lying in wait \u2013 I don't know how to explain it without sounding grotesquely sentimental, but these things matter. You could be in the smartest hotel in the world, or in a heavenly rented cottage somewhere idyllic but you would never be able to recreate those rhythms.They rely too heavily on tradition, on the fact that Father Christmas needs to watch the creaky step when going about his business, on the smell of the house, on the feel of the slightly shabby sofa you have at home, on the lovely familiarity of the day. I don't think any of this applies exclusively to children, the idea that things change and families evolve but Christmas stays the same \u2013 I am 44, and it absolutely applies to me, too; I'd like to think it applied to the rest of my grown-up relatives too. Put bluntly, Christmas reminds everyone of childhood, and what this means is that even the Grinchiest people have a secret longing for it to be wonderful.If you're wily enough to build on that feeling, it can override all others \u2013 personal antipathies, difficult divorces, Auntie Ethel quietly (or not) losing her marbles in the corner, your new stepdad not being all that. It's partly to do with safety in numbers \u2013 at the very least, chucking in a brace of assorted relatives varies the mood. But mostly it's because all adults are capable of being lovely \u2013 of setting differences aside and declaring an emotional armistice, for one tiny little day a year: all you have to do is ask them along happily and in good faith. One tiny little day that makes a huge difference.I remember December 1978. My parents had split up when I was two; I loved (and continue to love) my stepfather; I was 13. For some reason I can't remember, my dad and his wife, who lived in Brussels at the time, appeared for Christmas morning. It sounds mad, but I hadn't seen my mother and father in a benign domestic context \u2013 lounging around on sofas with glasses of wine, laughing their heads off over something or other \u2013 in my entire life. The moment passed, and the day moved on and was as lovely as ever, but I've never forgotten that particular vignette. So don't think that family Christmases aren't for you because your family isn't straightforward. Don't run away abroad, or bah-humbug yourself under the duvet. Embrace the chaos. It's only once a year, and you never know \u2013 you might even find it's habit-forming.Comfort and Joy by India Knight is published by Fig Tree, \u00a314.99. To order a copy for \u00a311.99 with free UK p&p, go to theguardian.com/bookshop or call 0330 333 6846", "tags": ["Family", "Christmas", "Life and style"], "title": "India Knight: Recipe for a happy Christmas"},{"date": "2010-12-17T18:54:52Z", "country": "india", "content": "A vicious political row has erupted in India after the publication today of leaked American diplomatic cables about Hindu extremism and human rights abuses.The most explosive revelation has proved to be a cable reporting that Rahul Gandhi \u2013 the 40-year-old politician widely predicted to be India's next prime minister \u2013 told the US ambassador at a lunch last year that radical Hindu groups in India could pose a bigger threat to the country than Pakistan-based Islamic militants.After a series of terrorist attacks by extremists from both religious communities over recent years, and a history of inter-faith violence, such views are deeply controversial.Both the opposition Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata party (BJP) and the ruling Congress party regularly accuse one another of playing on communal divisions for political aims.Spokesmen for the BJP said Rahul Gandhi, who leads the youth wing of the ruling Congress party, had been \"irresponsible\".\"In one stroke, Rahul Gandhi has sought to give a big leverage to the propaganda of all terror groups operating from Pakistan and certain segments of the Pakistan establishment,\" Ravi Shankar Prasad, a BJP leader, said.Prasad said the statement showed how little Gandhi, the son of the Italian-born Congress party president, Sonia Gandhi, knows about India.The Congress spokesman Manish Tiwari said the BJP \"should act responsibly on the issues of national importance\".\"[The] Bharatiya Janata party has a habit of communalising and politicising everything. Congress has always maintained that terrorism does not have any religion, terrorism does not have any caste and to fight terrorism is the duty of every Indian citizen,\" he told reporters.Other cables published today also dominated the headlines.One, from April 2005, reported how US diplomats in Delhi were briefed by a representative of the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) on the organisation's frustrations with the Indian government which, it said, had not acted to halt the \"continued ill-treatment of detainees\" in Kashmir.The cable gave details of a presentation by the ICRC in which US diplomats heard of the systematic use of torture involving beatings, stretching and electric shocks in Kashmir between 2002 and 2004, based on research the humanitarian organisation had conducted in the violent former Himalayan princely state.A spokesman for the ministry of external affairs in Delhi said India \"is an open and democratic nation which adheres to the rule of law\".\"If and when an aberration occurs, it is promptly and firmly dealt with under existing legal mechanisms in an effective and transparent manner,\" the spokesman added.\"In India, there is a healthy tradition of democratic debate and freedom of expression on all issues that concern the welfare of our citizens anywhere in our country. Neither have we shied away from an open and candid discussion on such issues when raised by our international friends and partners.\"The ICRC declined to comment on the cable.The controversy over Rahul Gandhi comes at a bad time for the ruling coalition government, which has been hit by a series of corruption scandals that have badly dented its image.Criticism of other senior Congress figures in the cables, including Sonia Gandhi, led to headlines describing India's first family as \"Wiki-bombed\" by a \"twin Wiki-blast\".", "tags": ["India", "The US embassy cables", "Kashmir", "World news", "WikiLeaks", "Media"], "title": "WikiLeaks cables: India revelations spark political row"},{"date": "2010-12-28T13:49:58Z", "country": "india", "content": "Indian authorities have deployed thousands of security personnel following warnings that Lashkar-e-Taiba, the Pakistan-based militant group, is planning an attack over the New Year weekend.Police officers and paramilitaries were on high alert across the country, including in India's financial capital, Mumbai, Indian officials said. House-to-house searches were under way in some areas of the city, which was attacked by Lashkar-e-Taiba in November 2008. Airports and railway stations, the city of Ahmedabad in the western state of Gujarat and the popular beach resort state of Goa were also on high alert following the warning, said to be based on \"human\" intelligence and received in recent days.Most of the locations covered by the alert had been visited by David Headley, a Pakistani-American and member of Lashkar-e-Taiba who travelled widely in India before the Mumbai attack, one official told the Guardian. Headley was tasked by the extremist group with surveillance of targets in Mumbai itself but also visited Goa and the city of Pune, where there was a blast in February.According to a secret report by Indian investigators of their interrogation of Headley in June, the undercover militant brought back film and notes on potential targets in India such as Jewish centres and tourist resorts favoured by Israelis which he passed on to his handlers.In his interrogation, Headley claimed that he frequently combined missions for Lashkar-e-Taiba with missions for the main Pakistani spy agency, the Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate (ISI). His last trips to India before his arrest in Chicago in October last year were on behalf of a veteran Pakistani militant with links to al-Qaida called Ilyas Kashmiri, he said.India has taken all terror threats seriously since the three-day terrorist siege killed 166 people in Mumbai two years ago, when 10 armed terrorists landed by sea before fanning out across the city to attack two luxury hotels, a Jewish centre and a railway station. The strike badly damaged Indian relations with Pakistan.In March, Mumbai police said they prevented a major terrorist strike after they arrested two Indian men, who they believed were preparing to hit several targets in the city.Then in September police issued a terror alert for the city during a popular Hindu festival after receiving information that two Islamist militants were planning a terror strike acting on directions from handlers in Pakistan.Earlier this month a small bomb exploded in the northern city of Varanasi, which is holy to Hindus. The attack was blamed on Indian Muslim militants.Police have been searching since Friday for four men who authorities believe have entered Mumbai to carry out a terrorist attack. Computer-aided photographs of the four suspects have been released. Police have also tightened security checks at bus and train stations, churches and markets.", "tags": ["India", "Mumbai terror attacks", "World news"], "title": "India issues nationwide terror alert"},{"date": "2010-12-01T21:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Imagine, if it's possible, that Jeremy Paxman and Matthew Parris are recorded on tape advising a corporate lobbyist how to get her favoured MP into the coalition cabinet. Then imagine that this MP is accused of defrauding the national exchequer of billions of pounds. This is the scandal that unfolded in India last week \u2013 more disturbing and revealing for the Indian public than anything from WikiLeaks.In addition to this story, in one of the audio recordings intercepted by India's income tax department (and now widely available on the internet), Vir Sanghvi, a leading columnist and TV host, is heard offering his services to Niira Radia, a lobbyist for two of India's biggest corporate houses, the Tatas and Reliance Industries.\"What kind of story do you want?\" Sanghvi asks Radia, and goes on to offer a \"fully scripted\" and \"rehearsed\" television interview to her client, Mukesh Ambani, India's richest man. Another tape has Prabhu Chawla, an editor with India Today \u2013 India's biggest-circulation news magazine in English \u2013 explaining to Radia how Ambani might win his supreme court battle against his brother. \"Everything is fixed nowadays,\" he hints darkly. Barkha Dutt \u2013 who hosts a popular TV show called We, the People \u2013 can also be heard offering to relay messages from Radia to politicians whom Radia wants to influence in the process of forming a cabinet.Radia's candidate \u2013 A Raja \u2013 did indeed go on to become the telecommunications minister. He now stands accused of depriving the national exchequer of $39bn by selling mobile phone \"2G spectrum\" bandwidth cheaply to, among other telecom companies, Tata \u2013 represented by Radia. Under pressure from opposition parties and the supreme court, Raja resigned last month. The journalists caught on tape have preferred to brazen it out, insisting that they were only squeezing a likely source for information.At first it seemed they might get away with it when such high-circulation mainstream newspapers as the Times of India and the Hindustan Times refused to cover the scandal. But public anger, amplified by the internet, may now be making the censorship unsustainable.Yesterday Dutt appeared on her own TV channel, claiming she was guilty of nothing more than an \"error of judgment\". Her prickly defence \u2013 that only a naive journalist would see something newsworthy in the oversized influence of corporate lobbyists on political processes \u2013 pointed to a deeper rot in the New India beloved of globalised elites. As Sonia Gandhi, the Congress party leader, put it: the country's economy may \"increasingly be dynamic, but our moral universe seems to be shrinking ... The principles on which Independent India was founded, for which a generation of great leaders fought and sacrificed their all, are in danger of being negated.\"Indeed, for influential Indians the model of a \"great\" leader today is provided by Narendra Modi, the business-friendly Hindu nationalist chief minister of Gujarat who is accused of complicity in the murder of more than 2,000 Muslims in 2002. Ratan Tata, one of the most respectable names in Indian business, hails Modi as a \"dynamic leader\".It is too easy, however, to focus on the moral obtuseness of a few journalists and businessmen. A broader consensus exists within the middle class beneficiaries of India's economy, a wider culture of deference to powerful and wealthy people, and intolerance and meanness towards the poor and defenceless, and their few articulate advocates. Mainstream journalists too have succumbed to this political pathology. What the tapes reveal most vividly is not spectacular corruption \u2013 not exactly news \u2013 so much as why the supposed watchdogs of democracy have assumed the militant aggressiveness and vanity of the very privileged in a wretchedly poor country.Ratan Tata, whose conversations with Radia were also recorded, now complains that India is turning into a \"banana republic\". But Tata's own praise of Modi signified the ethical deficit among India's rich and powerful. Certainly, Sanghvi sounded like a Latin American oligarchist when, criticising the US decision to deny Modi a visa, he argued: \"Modi may be a mass murderer. But he is our mass murderer.\" Claiming to speak for the \"educated Indian middle class\", Sanghvi asserted that \"we are entirely justified in being angered\" by Arundhati Roy's recent remarks on India's military occupation of Kashmir.Marvelling about a \"concept of Indian unity\" that endorses extrajudicial execution and torture, the social psychologist Ashis Nandy recently wondered if there was \"a large enough section of India's much-vaunted middle class fully sensitive to the demands of democracy\". Or could it be that, far from upholding progressive values, many exalted Indians, including journalists, will do anything to protect \"their new-found social status and political clout\"?Certainly, these revelations and their attempted suppression by mainstream media not only validate Nandy's grim diagnosis. They also confirm his suspicion that, notwithstanding the anarchist culture of WikiLeaks, the future of censorship in India is \"very bright\".", "tags": ["India", "Censorship", "Tata", "Media", "World news"], "title": "The rotting of New India | Pankaj Mishra"},{"date": "2010-11-12T12:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "More than four millennia have passed since the many artefacts of the ancient Indus civilisation were fashioned. Yet one tiny sculpture, made by an unknown artist, still seems strikingly relevant to us today. The seal shows a seated figure on a low platform in a pose that is familiar to modern practitioners of yoga and meditation: the knees spread to the sides with the feet touching, and the arms stretch from the shoulders away from the body with the fingertips resting on the knees. Assuming the symmetrical and balanced form of a triangle, the body of the adept thus posed can endure lengthy sessions of yoga and meditation without needing to shift.The word yoga means \"to unite\" and ancient yoga was intended to prepare the body for meditation through which the individual would seek to understand his or her oneness with the totality of the universe. Once this understanding was complete, people could no more hurt another living being than themselves. Today, such practices are routinely prescribed to complement western medical and psychotherapy treatments. Among the documented benefits of yoga and its corollary, meditation, are lowered blood pressure, greater mental acuity and stress reduction.To the ancients who developed and perfected these mentally and physically challenging methods, however, yoga and meditation were tools for finding inner peace and a harmonious existence. Once you look closely, plenty more evidence points to the non-violent, peaceful nature of these early peoples. For example, the archaeological remains of the cities and towns of the Indus civilisation during its florescence from c2300-1750BC show little if any indication of internal dissent, criminality, or even the threat of war and conflict from the outside. There are no known fortifications, nor is there proof of ransacking and pillaging.There is also an emphasis on citizenship rather than a ruling elite in this period. Indeed, archaeological evidence suggests there was, in fact, no hereditary ruler \u2013 such as a king or other monarch \u2013 that amassed and controlled the wealth of the society. Thus, in contrast to the other ancient civilisations of the world, whose vast architectural and artistic undertakings, such as tombs and large-scale sculptures, served the wealthy and powerful, the Indus civilisation leaves nothing in the way of such monuments. Instead, government programmes and financial resources seem to have been directed towards the organisation of a society that benefited its citizens.Another feature that sets the ancient Indus culture apart from other early civilisations is the prominent role played by women. Among the artefacts we have been able to unearth are thousands of ceramic sculptures representing women, sometimes interpreted as goddesses, and, specifically, mother goddesses. This is a core element in the major religious developments of India, which are populated with goddesses \u2013 some supreme and others whose role is to complement male deities who would otherwise be incomplete or even powerless. It is thus hardly surprising that the symbol chosen for the nationalistic independence movement of the early 20th century and the establishment of India's modern democracy was Bharat Mata \u2013 that is, Mother India.The area's first ancient culture, the Indus or Harappan civilisation, was at its peak centred in what is now Pakistan in the northwestern reaches of south Asia. It stretched southward for a thousand miles along the western coastal areas of India. It eventually disappeared around 1750BC, because of a combination of natural and human factors. Earthquakes in the high Himalayas may have changed the course of the rivers that provided life-sustaining agricultural irrigation, leading to the abandonment of cities and towns and relocation elsewhere. In addition, the ancient inhabitants, unaware of the need to replant as they cut down trees to use for building and fuel, deforested the region, thus contributing to its transformation into the desert of today.The period that followed the Indus civilisation from c1750BC to the third century BC has left a spotty material record. But we know it was in this time that some of the most important principles of Indic civilisation appeared. Some of these precepts come from the Indus culture, but other ideas arrived in India from the outside, such as with the nomadic, Indo-European Aryans from central Asia.Perhaps the most important figure to emerge in this period was the historical Buddha, born Siddhartha Gautama in the Ganges river region of northern India in the sixth century BC. Attaining perfect knowledge at the age of 36, after a quest that involved ascetic and meditational practices, the Buddha taught what is known as the Middle Way, advocating the abandonment of both extreme asceticism and extreme luxury. The Buddha also taught that all living beings have the capacity to transform themselves from an ignorant, self-centred state to one that embodies unqualified goodwill and generosity. Enlightenment was a matter of personal responsibility: every person had to develop wisely directed compassion for all living beings along with perfect knowledge of their role in the universe.It's important to note that the historical Buddha is not considered a divine being and his followers do not worship him \u2013 rather, they revere and honour him through their practices. In art, he is shown as a human, not a superhuman being. Because there is no all-powerful central deity in Buddhism, the religion is easily compatible with other traditions and there are many people throughout the world today who combine Buddhism with another faith.A contemporary of Buddha was Mahavira: the 24th in a line of perfected human beings known as jinas, or victors, and a major figure in the Jain religion. Like the Buddha, Mahavira is not considered a god but an exemplar to his followers. When depicted in art, he and the other 24 jinas appear as highly perfected humans.Unlike Buddhism and Jainism, India's third major indigenous religion, Hinduism, did not have a human teacher to whom the beliefs and practices of the tradition may be traced. Instead, it is centred around devotion to specific deities, both supreme and minor, who are numbered among a vast pantheon of gods and goddesses. Shiva destroys the universe with his cosmic dance when it has deteriorated to the degree that it needs to be reborn; Vishnu is the protector and preserver of the world as it struggles to maintain stasis. Archaeological evidence for Hinduism appears later in India's material record than those of Buddhism and Jainism, and stone and metal artefacts portraying the host of deities are rare before the fifth century AD.All three of these Indic religions share the belief that every living being is subject to a cycle of birth and rebirth over countless aeons. Known as samsara, this cycle of transmigration is not limited to humans but includes all sentient beings. The form one will take in a future birth is determined by one's karma \u2013 a term that in modern parlance has come to mean little more than \"luck\", but the original Indic use of the word specifically refers to one's actions, which are the result of choice, not chance. The escape from samsara, called nirvana by Buddhists and moksa by Hindus and Jains, is the ultimate goal of each of the three religious traditions, and all human activity should, ideally, be directed towards improving one's karma to achieve this end.Although today we assign different names to these three religious traditions, in many ways they are considered different paths, or margs, toward a similar objective. Within Indic culture, and indeed even within families, individuals have been free to choose their own marg, and we have no evidence of religious conflict among these traditions.Around the third century BC, a mix of internal cultural evolution and stimulating contact with ancient western Asia and the Mediterranean worlds brought change to the Indic regions. The arrival of Alexander the Great in the northwestern region of south Asia in 327BC, and the collapse of the ancient Persian Empire, introduced new ideas \u2013 including the development of the concept of kingship, and technologies such as the tools and knowledge necessary for large-scale stone carving. Had Alexander succeeded in conquering the Indian subcontinent \u2013 mutiny and fatigue among his troops is said to have caused a retreat \u2013 one can only imagine how Indian history might have evolved. As it stands, his legacy is mainly cultural, not political, as the pathways across western Asia that he forged remained open for trade and economic exchange for centuries after his death.One thing to pass through this gateway was a system of rule by kingship, which took hold of northern India in the rich lands fertilised by the life-giving Ganges river. The most renowned of India's first kings was Ashoka, who even today is admired by India's leaders as a paradigm of the benevolent ruler. After years engaged in waging war to aggrandise his empire, Ashoka, having seen some 150,000 people carried away as captives, 100,000 more slain, and many more dead after his final conquest, was struck with remorse at the suffering he had caused. Converting to Buddhism, Ashoka spent the remainder of his life in righteous, peaceful activities. His benevolent kingship was adopted as a model throughout Asia as Buddhism moved beyond its Indic homeland. The set of four lions portrayed on one of his most famous monuments \u2013 the stone pillar he erected at Sarnath, where the Buddha taught his first sermon \u2013 has become a ubiquitous symbol of India's modern democracy, and is used on coins, stamps, government stationery, and elsewhere to laud the modern nation's roots in enlightened rulership.As suggested by the artefacts that have survived and what we know about the religious and philosophical beliefs of the people, the period 2500BC-AD500 in ancient India was one of extraordinary cultural brilliance, with innovations and traditions that still leave their mark on the world today. Furthermore, the cultural continuity between India's past and present is unmatched in the other regions of the world. The modern societies in Egypt, Mesopotamia, Greece, Rome, the Americas and China for the most part bear little resemblance to their ancient counterparts. Indeed, what is striking from an overview of the early phases of India's long and rich cultural development is the fact that so many of the features in evidence through the material record have had a persistent and lasting effect on Indic society and the world.Ancient India's legacy in the fields of science and mathematics is significant. Mathematics was important to the layout of religious buildings and the philosophical comprehension of the cosmos. The fifth century AD astronomer and mathematician Aryabhata is credited with originating the modern decimal system, which is predicated on an understanding of the concept of zero. Evidence of the Indic origin of the idea of zero, including the use of a small circle to denote the numeral, is found in Sanskrit texts and inscriptions.Another cultural legacy is an ancient branch of medicine known as Ayurveda, still widely practiced in India today. It has also gained popularity in the western world as a \"complementary\" medicine. Translating literally as \"science of life\", it conceives basic principles for human health and points to physical and mental balance as the means to wellbeing.Perhaps ancient India's most lasting legacy is the belief in non-harm to living beings \u2013 a centrepiece of Buddhism, Jainism and Hinduism \u2013 which was transformed into the passive resistance advocated by Mahatma Gandhi during India's early 20th century struggle for independence from British rule. After Gandhi, many other modern luminaries have been guided by the principle of non-violence in their quests for social justice, most famously Reverend Martin Luther King, who spearheaded the struggle for racial equality in the US during the 1960s. In his autobiography, King notes that \"Gandhi was the guiding light of our technique of non-violent social change\" during the bus boycott in 1956 that ended Alabama's transport segregation on the city's buses. John F. Kennedy, Nelson Mandela and Barack Obama have also claimed inspiration from Mahatma Gandhi and the ancient Indian principle of non-harm, and the Indic compassion towards all living beings and the corresponding non-violent stance has been adopted by groups that advocate vegetarianism, animal welfare and environmental activism. Perhaps there is no greater compliment that can be paid to India's ancient culture than the fact that its sophisticated beliefs and reverence for life can serve as guideposts to the world today. Susan L Huntington is professor in art history at Ohio State University. Among other books, she is the author of the Art of Ancient India (Weatherhill)", "tags": ["Culture", "India", "Religion", "Philosophy", "Archaeology", "Science", "World news", "Art and design"], "title": "The Ancient World | India"},{"date": "2010-10-26T13:01:39Z", "country": "india", "content": "Sir Arthur said, \"stuff and nonsense\" (or words to that effect). \"We can't station British troops at Bangalore. It might be healthy up there, but there's not enough water.\" In 1805 Wellesley left India and the troops were moved up to Bangalore on the Deccan highlands. No doubt they suffered from water shortages as we still do today.The earliest rulers of Bangalore knew that even a small community could only survive on the Deccan if water was carefully conserved. Artificial lakes were created round the city and were joined by water channels. As governments changed and land values increased, many lakes disappeared and channels became blocked. We are in a strange position because, at the end of our road, we have the memory of a lake.Parks are important in modern Bangalore, where few people have gardens. Our local lake has become a park. There is still a lake in the middle, and walking round it is a morning exercise for many of our neighbours. There are groups of women and retired men who do their socialising then. They walk together every morning, exchange news and gossip, and plan other meetings. Some groups bring bread to throw at the large, whiskery carp that live in the lake and enjoy the resultant feeding frenzy. The more romantic sit and watch the birds flying over the water.We realised quite soon that while these groups were social, for others the park provided a moment of privacy. Ours is a traditional neighbourhood, where large families live in small dwellings and the women are often together in one room while the men are in another. In the morning, we pass shy young couples holding hands on secluded benches. They are in new arranged marriages and slowly beginning to get to know each other. Older couples also use their time in the park this way. As they walk, they can discuss family matters and, away from the house, express themselves in non-traditional ways. One morning we walked towards an elderly couple, both walking fast and vigorously, discussing some arrangements. Suddenly, the husband took his wife's face between his hands and gave her a smacking kiss. We didn't need to hear what she said because the body language was so clear.\"Get away! Be decent! What will people think?\" But then they exchanged a warm, private smile.", "tags": ["India"], "title": "India: Dry humour in Bangalore"},{"date": "2010-12-18T00:06:43Z", "country": "india", "content": "Christmas. Fraught, innit? If your family is complicated \u2013 either in the sense that it just is, because it's a family and nothing's ever simple, or in the multiply divorced, \"blended\" sense \u2013 the urge to opt out of full-on Christmas can be overwhelming. I have a couple of friends who are planning to spend theirs blissfully alone this year, hunkered in a Slanket, with a pile of mince pies and the telly, not because they are friendless orphans but because they've got to the point where they simply can't be doing with any of it. As the Christmas frenzy builds to its usual hysterical pitch, it's not hard to see the appeal of being alone, clad in toasty winceyette and lovingly ogling a chocolate orange. Well, up to a point. Personally, I'd start feeling a bit lonely at about 4pm. Similarly, I can sort of see the appeal of a split Christmas, but it has its limitations.A split Christmas is what all the people who simply can't countenance a \"traditional\" family Christmas do \u2013 they spend the day itself with their partners and children and then go haring off up and down motorways from Boxing Day onwards to go and be dutiful to the rest of their families. This makes a kind of sense \u2013 the actual 25th is relatively stress free, aside from the giant doom-cloud cast by the thought of the days to come \u2013 but I'd argue that what you gain in sanity you lose over the next few days through a combination of exhaustion, road rage, weather anxiety and bad temper. Worse, it's that very specific, extra-tiring kind of exhaustion you get when you're doing something you don't particularly want to do, and, in some cases, not even being thanked for it (someone I know has a mother-in-law who has never, not once, thanked her for a present with any tiny measure of enthusiasm \u2013 not in 15 years). Plus, there's a limit to how many Christmas dinners one can eat/paper crowns one can wear/forced rictuses of \"jolliness\" one can convincingly contort one's face into.Also, Boxing Day is for lying beached on the sofa, not for being stuck in a snowdrift halfway to Yorkshire with fractious children in the back and a faulty satnav. You might think that the solution to all of this is to run away \u2013 abroad, specifically. The appeal of abroad becomes overwhelming at this\u00a0time of year: I can't be the only person to have fallen into a lovely daydream in the middle of vile Oxford Street in early December, hemmed in by bad-tempered shoppers and felled by a rising sense of panic about the elusive perfect present for X or Y, that involves heat, empty beaches, a fish on a banana leaf for Christmas lunch, communion with nature and a big fat no to excess and expense. One year I looked into renting houses in Byron Bay, Australia, until it occurred to me that the expense of getting everybody out there was practically akin to giving\u00a0everyone Faberg\u00e9 eggs in their\u00a0stockings.Except that escape is overrated: there's no homesickness like Christmas homesickness. I've come to the conclusion that the only thing to do is to embrace tradition. Even if you don't have much truck with tradition, the other 364 days of the year, even if your family set-up is anything other than traditional, even if the very word \"tradition\" brings you out in hives and makes you think nebulous dark thoughts about dodgy political parties and \"Britishness\". Tradition works at Christmas and works best of all if your family isn't of the 2.4 variety. Tradition decrees that you get all your family \u2013 blood and extended, former and future, nice and tiresome, old and young \u2013 stick them in a room and celebrate the day. And, miraculously, it works.Trust me: I'm a veteran of this approach. This is my usual Christmas guest list: me, my three children, my mother, my sisters, my sisters' partners and children, the father of my sons, the father of my daughter, my two former mothers-in-law, one mother-in-law's new husband, my sister-formerly-in-law, friends who started coming for Christmas and are now part of the fixtures, and a small number of strays or randoms, plus relatives who live abroad but have decided to appear. That's for lunch itself. Prior to lunch, we have various people coming in and out for drinks. I don't know that my version of traditional is necessarily what the Daily Mail has in mind, but I don't see why nuclear families should have a monopoly.Sometimes, it's just easier to give in. I don't mean give in, as in, let's spend an insane amount of money and make our hair fall out with stress when the credit card bills come in January \u2013 though, even there, tradition is on your side. Tradition doesn't say, hey \u2013 why not spend money as though you'd just won the lottery? No. Tradition says make some fudge, knit someone a scarf, buy really cheap wine and mull it. Equally pleasingly, tradition doesn't say do all the donkey work yourself because you are a woman. It says it in many other contexts, admittedly, but when it comes to Christmas, it actively encourages family participation. And family participation engenders good feeling because it makes people feel part of things, rather than like semi-unwanted guests. My own embrace of tradition relies heavily on participation: it may sound absurd, but getting people to help peel the vegetables on Christmas Eve makes them feel useful and wanted. Especially if you chuck in a vatful of mulled wine.I have a bee in my bonnet about all of this stuff. I love Christmas with a passion. To be honest, I've always liked it well enough but I only started really loving it when I put myself in charge. I am the boss of Christmas and, without wanting to toot my own trumpet too loudly, I've got it down to a fine art. What you think about Christmas is subjective, obviously, but to me it boils down to two things \u2013 family and memories. Even people who claim not to care about Christmas, or to actively hate it, can remember precisely where they were for it; equally, a really fantastic Christmas (usually a childhood one that takes on mythical qualities in retrospect) sticks in your head for all eternity.The family/memory thing converges neatly if you have children and is, I think, particularly important if you're no longer with those children's father or mother. There was a Christmas a few years ago, shortly after I'd separated from the father of my daughter, where I became almost deranged with the desire to make the whole day extra-fantastic, purely because the alternative was so tragic \u2013 weepy mother, long silences, awkward pauses, the sense for the children that things are not as they were. This is yet another instance of tradition coming to the rescue: if you embrace the traditional Christmas, things are always as they were, even if the cast expands every few years. The tree is where the tree always was; the ancient baubles come down from the attic, as they do every year; the fairy someone made in year one sits on top of the tree, as it always did; the day's familiar rhythms are as soothing as a warm blanket.But it's more than that: your family wake up in their own beds, with their stockings lying in wait \u2013 I don't know how to explain it without sounding grotesquely sentimental, but these things matter. You could be in the smartest hotel in the world, or in a heavenly rented cottage somewhere idyllic but you would never be able to recreate those rhythms.They rely too heavily on tradition, on the fact that Father Christmas needs to watch the creaky step when going about his business, on the smell of the house, on the feel of the slightly shabby sofa you have at home, on the lovely familiarity of the day. I don't think any of this applies exclusively to children, the idea that things change and families evolve but Christmas stays the same \u2013 I am 44, and it absolutely applies to me, too; I'd like to think it applied to the rest of my grown-up relatives too. Put bluntly, Christmas reminds everyone of childhood, and what this means is that even the Grinchiest people have a secret longing for it to be wonderful.If you're wily enough to build on that feeling, it can override all others \u2013 personal antipathies, difficult divorces, Auntie Ethel quietly (or not) losing her marbles in the corner, your new stepdad not being all that. It's partly to do with safety in numbers \u2013 at the very least, chucking in a brace of assorted relatives varies the mood. But mostly it's because all adults are capable of being lovely \u2013 of setting differences aside and declaring an emotional armistice, for one tiny little day a year: all you have to do is ask them along happily and in good faith. One tiny little day that makes a huge difference.I remember December 1978. My parents had split up when I was two; I loved (and continue to love) my stepfather; I was 13. For some reason I can't remember, my dad and his wife, who lived in Brussels at the time, appeared for Christmas morning. It sounds mad, but I hadn't seen my mother and father in a benign domestic context \u2013 lounging around on sofas with glasses of wine, laughing their heads off over something or other \u2013 in my entire life. The moment passed, and the day moved on and was as lovely as ever, but I've never forgotten that particular vignette. So don't think that family Christmases aren't for you because your family isn't straightforward. Don't run away abroad, or bah-humbug yourself under the duvet. Embrace the chaos. It's only once a year, and you never know \u2013 you might even find it's habit-forming.Comfort and Joy by India Knight is published by Fig Tree, \u00a314.99. To order a copy for \u00a311.99 with free UK p&p, go to theguardian.com/bookshop or call 0330 333 6846", "tags": ["Family", "Christmas", "Life and style"], "title": "India Knight: Recipe for a happy Christmas"},{"date": "2010-12-17T18:54:52Z", "country": "india", "content": "A vicious political row has erupted in India after the publication today of leaked American diplomatic cables about Hindu extremism and human rights abuses.The most explosive revelation has proved to be a cable reporting that Rahul Gandhi \u2013 the 40-year-old politician widely predicted to be India's next prime minister \u2013 told the US ambassador at a lunch last year that radical Hindu groups in India could pose a bigger threat to the country than Pakistan-based Islamic militants.After a series of terrorist attacks by extremists from both religious communities over recent years, and a history of inter-faith violence, such views are deeply controversial.Both the opposition Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata party (BJP) and the ruling Congress party regularly accuse one another of playing on communal divisions for political aims.Spokesmen for the BJP said Rahul Gandhi, who leads the youth wing of the ruling Congress party, had been \"irresponsible\".\"In one stroke, Rahul Gandhi has sought to give a big leverage to the propaganda of all terror groups operating from Pakistan and certain segments of the Pakistan establishment,\" Ravi Shankar Prasad, a BJP leader, said.Prasad said the statement showed how little Gandhi, the son of the Italian-born Congress party president, Sonia Gandhi, knows about India.The Congress spokesman Manish Tiwari said the BJP \"should act responsibly on the issues of national importance\".\"[The] Bharatiya Janata party has a habit of communalising and politicising everything. Congress has always maintained that terrorism does not have any religion, terrorism does not have any caste and to fight terrorism is the duty of every Indian citizen,\" he told reporters.Other cables published today also dominated the headlines.One, from April 2005, reported how US diplomats in Delhi were briefed by a representative of the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) on the organisation's frustrations with the Indian government which, it said, had not acted to halt the \"continued ill-treatment of detainees\" in Kashmir.The cable gave details of a presentation by the ICRC in which US diplomats heard of the systematic use of torture involving beatings, stretching and electric shocks in Kashmir between 2002 and 2004, based on research the humanitarian organisation had conducted in the violent former Himalayan princely state.A spokesman for the ministry of external affairs in Delhi said India \"is an open and democratic nation which adheres to the rule of law\".\"If and when an aberration occurs, it is promptly and firmly dealt with under existing legal mechanisms in an effective and transparent manner,\" the spokesman added.\"In India, there is a healthy tradition of democratic debate and freedom of expression on all issues that concern the welfare of our citizens anywhere in our country. Neither have we shied away from an open and candid discussion on such issues when raised by our international friends and partners.\"The ICRC declined to comment on the cable.The controversy over Rahul Gandhi comes at a bad time for the ruling coalition government, which has been hit by a series of corruption scandals that have badly dented its image.Criticism of other senior Congress figures in the cables, including Sonia Gandhi, led to headlines describing India's first family as \"Wiki-bombed\" by a \"twin Wiki-blast\".", "tags": ["India", "The US embassy cables", "Kashmir", "World news", "WikiLeaks", "Media"], "title": "WikiLeaks cables: India revelations spark political row"},{"date": "2010-12-08T09:19:15Z", "country": "india", "content": "Al-Jazeera English has been granted a licence to broadcast in India by the country's information and broadcasting ministry.\"This is an exciting breakthrough that has been in the works for several years,\" said Al Anstey, the channel's managing director. \"We know there is a great demand for our award-winning content.\"Al-Jazeera English has a bureau in New Delhi. Its chief, Anmol Saxena, said: \"We are certain that we will have a substantial following.\"The potential audience, with an estimated 115m households, is huge. Source: Al Jazeera via Media Network", "tags": ["Media", "Al-Jazeera", "India", "The news on TV"], "title": "Al-Jazeera to broadcast in India"},{"date": "2011-03-03T11:20:45Z", "country": "india", "content": "Sugandha is conducting a session on raising awareness about the perils of child marriage among a group of schoolgirls. They listen with rapt attention to the didi (elder sister) they all admire. Sugandha came back to school after being married and then thrown out of her in-laws' home when her first-born died.\"Right now I work as a peer educator for a programme called Youth for Change. We arrange meetings and inform people about the ill effects of early marriages. Moreover, we have been successful in stopping a few child marriages,\" she says proudly.Sugandha lives in Uttar Pradesh \u2013 one of the largest states in India \u2013 where 40% of girls are married before the age of 18, according to the District Level Household and Facility Survey \u2013 3. Uttar Pradesh is among the top five states in India when it comes to rates of child marriage. Development indicators are among the lowest, and poverty, gender discrimination and migration have a big impact on child marriage and on the health of girls and young women.Many rationalisations are made for marrying girls young, even though the marriage of those under 18 has been illegal since 1929, ie since the era of the British rule in India.\"My father died when I was quite young. Because of this there was pressure from the village, which forced my mother to get me married at a young age. I was very young \u2013 I couldn't say anything, I didn't understand,\" says Sugandha.Despite new provisions having been made under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act 2006, under which a child marriage prohibition officer must be in place at the local level, implementation is weak. The officer must ensure no child marriages takes place in their jurisdiction by approaching the courts for an injunction, collecting evidence against people, creating awareness about the negative effects of child marriage, and collecting data concerning child marriages, among other functions.However, the elected village head in Sugandha's village said: \"I have heard that child marriage is an offence but I have not read the law yet. Even now child marriage is taking place, because people say that a girl is someone else's property, therefore she should be married as soon as possible so she goes to her \"own\" home. I'm faced with a situation where if I take any action against them, the villagers will be up against me. So even if I know, I think it's best that I keep quiet.\"Despite an awareness of the law, and of the consequences of child marriage on the sexual and reproductive health of girls and young women, the gender disparity and a disregard for women in society means there is a lack of political will to see the law to its execution at the grassroots. According to Unicef's State of the World's Children Report 2007: \"Premature pregnancy and motherhood are an inevitable consequence of child marriage. Girls under 15 are five times more likely to die during pregnancy and childbirth than women in their 20s.\"In another district of Uttar Pradesh, closer to the Indian capital, New Delhi, a group of boys and young men are listening to another peer educator talk about sexual and reproductive health. One of the young men tentatively raises his hand to ask, \"Every time I have sex with my wife, she falls ill. Why is that?\"Not only is pregnancy a big concern for girls who have been married young, but also the act of sex has not been demystified and remains an unpleasant act at best, or worse, an act of violence. Girls and young women's sexuality is denied all their lives and then they are suddenly pushed into a marital relationship where they are expected to satisfy their husbands and prove their fertility.The law also puts the onus for prevention of child marriage on the person performing the ceremony. However, the priest in Sugandha's village said, \"We have not received any guidelines or any rules [on the Child Marriage Act], but I can tell you that marriage should be when the girl is 18 or over, when she is ready to understand and mature enough to shoulder responsibilities. [But] every year we perform five to eight marriages where they are below 15 or 15 to 16 years old. Even now we'll be doing so \u2013 the dates are booked.\"The International Planned Parenthood Federation considers child marriage to be a human rights violation. Ending child marriage is essential to make progress towards international and national development goals, including the millennium development goals.Some names in this article have been changed. Arushi Singh is youth programme officer, International Planned Parenthood Federation, south Asia region", "tags": ["Global development", "Gender", "Children", "Forced marriage", "Child protection", "Child marriage"], "title": "Ending child marriage in India"},{"date": "2011-03-03T11:20:45Z", "country": "india", "content": "Sugandha is conducting a session on raising awareness about the perils of child marriage among a group of schoolgirls. They listen with rapt attention to the didi (elder sister) they all admire. Sugandha came back to school after being married and then thrown out of her in-laws' home when her first-born died.\"Right now I work as a peer educator for a programme called Youth for Change. We arrange meetings and inform people about the ill effects of early marriages. Moreover, we have been successful in stopping a few child marriages,\" she says proudly.Sugandha lives in Uttar Pradesh \u2013 one of the largest states in India \u2013 where 40% of girls are married before the age of 18, according to the District Level Household and Facility Survey \u2013 3. Uttar Pradesh is among the top five states in India when it comes to rates of child marriage. Development indicators are among the lowest, and poverty, gender discrimination and migration have a big impact on child marriage and on the health of girls and young women.Many rationalisations are made for marrying girls young, even though the marriage of those under 18 has been illegal since 1929, ie since the era of the British rule in India.\"My father died when I was quite young. Because of this there was pressure from the village, which forced my mother to get me married at a young age. I was very young \u2013 I couldn't say anything, I didn't understand,\" says Sugandha.Despite new provisions having been made under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act 2006, under which a child marriage prohibition officer must be in place at the local level, implementation is weak. The officer must ensure no child marriages takes place in their jurisdiction by approaching the courts for an injunction, collecting evidence against people, creating awareness about the negative effects of child marriage, and collecting data concerning child marriages, among other functions.However, the elected village head in Sugandha's village said: \"I have heard that child marriage is an offence but I have not read the law yet. Even now child marriage is taking place, because people say that a girl is someone else's property, therefore she should be married as soon as possible so she goes to her \"own\" home. I'm faced with a situation where if I take any action against them, the villagers will be up against me. So even if I know, I think it's best that I keep quiet.\"Despite an awareness of the law, and of the consequences of child marriage on the sexual and reproductive health of girls and young women, the gender disparity and a disregard for women in society means there is a lack of political will to see the law to its execution at the grassroots. According to Unicef's State of the World's Children Report 2007: \"Premature pregnancy and motherhood are an inevitable consequence of child marriage. Girls under 15 are five times more likely to die during pregnancy and childbirth than women in their 20s.\"In another district of Uttar Pradesh, closer to the Indian capital, New Delhi, a group of boys and young men are listening to another peer educator talk about sexual and reproductive health. One of the young men tentatively raises his hand to ask, \"Every time I have sex with my wife, she falls ill. Why is that?\"Not only is pregnancy a big concern for girls who have been married young, but also the act of sex has not been demystified and remains an unpleasant act at best, or worse, an act of violence. Girls and young women's sexuality is denied all their lives and then they are suddenly pushed into a marital relationship where they are expected to satisfy their husbands and prove their fertility.The law also puts the onus for prevention of child marriage on the person performing the ceremony. However, the priest in Sugandha's village said, \"We have not received any guidelines or any rules [on the Child Marriage Act], but I can tell you that marriage should be when the girl is 18 or over, when she is ready to understand and mature enough to shoulder responsibilities. [But] every year we perform five to eight marriages where they are below 15 or 15 to 16 years old. Even now we'll be doing so \u2013 the dates are booked.\"The International Planned Parenthood Federation considers child marriage to be a human rights violation. Ending child marriage is essential to make progress towards international and national development goals, including the millennium development goals.Some names in this article have been changed. Arushi Singh is youth programme officer, International Planned Parenthood Federation, south Asia region", "tags": ["Global development", "Gender", "Children", "Forced marriage", "Child protection", "Child marriage"], "title": "Ending child marriage in India"},{"date": "2011-01-31T18:52:22Z", "country": "india", "content": "Thousands of devotees and monks demonstrated today across India to show their support for Tibetan Buddhism's third most important spiritual leader, who has been repeatedly questioned by Indian police about cash worth around \u00a3500,000 found in the Buddhist monastery in northern India where he lives.Lines of Tibetan exiles carried candles and pictures of the Karmapa, whose full name is Ogyen Trinley Dorje, in a series of vigils. The Karmapa, seen as a possible successor to the Dalai Lama, has denied allegations of wrongdoing. An aide has been arrested.This weekend large sums of Indian and foreign currency were recovered from the monastery near the Himalayan foothill town of Dharamsala where the lama lives. The cash included large amounts of Chinese yuan, sparking accusations, vociferously denied, that the 25-year-old lama [spiritual leader] is a Chinese spy.The office of the Karmapa, who fled from Tibet to India 11 years ago, said in a statement: \"Everyone who knows the history of our lineage, our struggle and his holiness's life is very surprised by the allegations. We categorically deny having any link whatsoever with any arm of the Chinese government.\"Supporters were swift to defend the young monk. \"The way the Karmapa has conducted himself in exile has been quite exemplary,\" said Youdon Aukatsang, a Tibetan living in Delhi. \"For the police to jump to the conclusion that he is a Chinese spy because of the money found at the monastery is ridiculous.\"One UK-based campaigner said: \"The Karmapa has always been under protection and accompanied everywhere, even up and downstairs from his private quarters to the temple, by Indian security.\"The position of the Tibetan community in India, estimated to be 200,000-strong, is a delicate one as tensions between India and China rise. The Karmapa himself is a controversial figure, with some within Tibetan Buddhism denying his claim to be the reincarnation of the 16th Karmapa.Ever since his sudden arrival in India as a teenager in January 2000, Delhi has been suspicious. A former official maintained that this was because intelligence services doubted he could have left Tibet without the knowledge of Chinese authorities.In remarks quoted in Indian media, a Chinese Communist party official told reporters: \"The speculation by India's media regarding the matter of the Karmapa as a Chinese agent or spy shows that India is keeping its mistrustful attitude toward China.\"The Dalai Lama, the spiritual head of Tibetan Buddhism said: \"The Karmapa has many devotees, including from China,\" he told reporters in Bangalore. \"Some money would have naturally been received by him [from devotees] \u2026 There has been some negligence [on the part of monastery officials]. It is better now to have a thorough investigation.\"Experts say the Karmapa is being groomed as a possible replacement for the Dalai Lama, who has publicly suggested that he might retire from political life within six months.The Gyuto monastery was raided after police stumbled upon around \u00a314,000 in a car in which two Indians were travelling. The car's occupants claimed they had received the cash from the monastery as part-payment for the purchase of land, for the construction of a monastery.The Karmapa's legal counsel, Naresh Mathur, told journalists that the money found in the monastery was composed of donations from devotees who came from all over the world, including Tibet.", "tags": ["Dalai Lama", "Buddhism", "India", "World news", "China", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Karmapa devotees demonstrate across India"},{"date": "2011-03-03T11:20:45Z", "country": "india", "content": "Sugandha is conducting a session on raising awareness about the perils of child marriage among a group of schoolgirls. They listen with rapt attention to the didi (elder sister) they all admire. Sugandha came back to school after being married and then thrown out of her in-laws' home when her first-born died.\"Right now I work as a peer educator for a programme called Youth for Change. We arrange meetings and inform people about the ill effects of early marriages. Moreover, we have been successful in stopping a few child marriages,\" she says proudly.Sugandha lives in Uttar Pradesh \u2013 one of the largest states in India \u2013 where 40% of girls are married before the age of 18, according to the District Level Household and Facility Survey \u2013 3. Uttar Pradesh is among the top five states in India when it comes to rates of child marriage. Development indicators are among the lowest, and poverty, gender discrimination and migration have a big impact on child marriage and on the health of girls and young women.Many rationalisations are made for marrying girls young, even though the marriage of those under 18 has been illegal since 1929, ie since the era of the British rule in India.\"My father died when I was quite young. Because of this there was pressure from the village, which forced my mother to get me married at a young age. I was very young \u2013 I couldn't say anything, I didn't understand,\" says Sugandha.Despite new provisions having been made under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act 2006, under which a child marriage prohibition officer must be in place at the local level, implementation is weak. The officer must ensure no child marriages takes place in their jurisdiction by approaching the courts for an injunction, collecting evidence against people, creating awareness about the negative effects of child marriage, and collecting data concerning child marriages, among other functions.However, the elected village head in Sugandha's village said: \"I have heard that child marriage is an offence but I have not read the law yet. Even now child marriage is taking place, because people say that a girl is someone else's property, therefore she should be married as soon as possible so she goes to her \"own\" home. I'm faced with a situation where if I take any action against them, the villagers will be up against me. So even if I know, I think it's best that I keep quiet.\"Despite an awareness of the law, and of the consequences of child marriage on the sexual and reproductive health of girls and young women, the gender disparity and a disregard for women in society means there is a lack of political will to see the law to its execution at the grassroots. According to Unicef's State of the World's Children Report 2007: \"Premature pregnancy and motherhood are an inevitable consequence of child marriage. Girls under 15 are five times more likely to die during pregnancy and childbirth than women in their 20s.\"In another district of Uttar Pradesh, closer to the Indian capital, New Delhi, a group of boys and young men are listening to another peer educator talk about sexual and reproductive health. One of the young men tentatively raises his hand to ask, \"Every time I have sex with my wife, she falls ill. Why is that?\"Not only is pregnancy a big concern for girls who have been married young, but also the act of sex has not been demystified and remains an unpleasant act at best, or worse, an act of violence. Girls and young women's sexuality is denied all their lives and then they are suddenly pushed into a marital relationship where they are expected to satisfy their husbands and prove their fertility.The law also puts the onus for prevention of child marriage on the person performing the ceremony. However, the priest in Sugandha's village said, \"We have not received any guidelines or any rules [on the Child Marriage Act], but I can tell you that marriage should be when the girl is 18 or over, when she is ready to understand and mature enough to shoulder responsibilities. [But] every year we perform five to eight marriages where they are below 15 or 15 to 16 years old. Even now we'll be doing so \u2013 the dates are booked.\"The International Planned Parenthood Federation considers child marriage to be a human rights violation. Ending child marriage is essential to make progress towards international and national development goals, including the millennium development goals.Some names in this article have been changed. Arushi Singh is youth programme officer, International Planned Parenthood Federation, south Asia region", "tags": ["Global development", "Gender", "Children", "Forced marriage", "Child protection", "Child marriage"], "title": "Ending child marriage in India"},{"date": "2011-01-31T18:52:22Z", "country": "india", "content": "Thousands of devotees and monks demonstrated today across India to show their support for Tibetan Buddhism's third most important spiritual leader, who has been repeatedly questioned by Indian police about cash worth around \u00a3500,000 found in the Buddhist monastery in northern India where he lives.Lines of Tibetan exiles carried candles and pictures of the Karmapa, whose full name is Ogyen Trinley Dorje, in a series of vigils. The Karmapa, seen as a possible successor to the Dalai Lama, has denied allegations of wrongdoing. An aide has been arrested.This weekend large sums of Indian and foreign currency were recovered from the monastery near the Himalayan foothill town of Dharamsala where the lama lives. The cash included large amounts of Chinese yuan, sparking accusations, vociferously denied, that the 25-year-old lama [spiritual leader] is a Chinese spy.The office of the Karmapa, who fled from Tibet to India 11 years ago, said in a statement: \"Everyone who knows the history of our lineage, our struggle and his holiness's life is very surprised by the allegations. We categorically deny having any link whatsoever with any arm of the Chinese government.\"Supporters were swift to defend the young monk. \"The way the Karmapa has conducted himself in exile has been quite exemplary,\" said Youdon Aukatsang, a Tibetan living in Delhi. \"For the police to jump to the conclusion that he is a Chinese spy because of the money found at the monastery is ridiculous.\"One UK-based campaigner said: \"The Karmapa has always been under protection and accompanied everywhere, even up and downstairs from his private quarters to the temple, by Indian security.\"The position of the Tibetan community in India, estimated to be 200,000-strong, is a delicate one as tensions between India and China rise. The Karmapa himself is a controversial figure, with some within Tibetan Buddhism denying his claim to be the reincarnation of the 16th Karmapa.Ever since his sudden arrival in India as a teenager in January 2000, Delhi has been suspicious. A former official maintained that this was because intelligence services doubted he could have left Tibet without the knowledge of Chinese authorities.In remarks quoted in Indian media, a Chinese Communist party official told reporters: \"The speculation by India's media regarding the matter of the Karmapa as a Chinese agent or spy shows that India is keeping its mistrustful attitude toward China.\"The Dalai Lama, the spiritual head of Tibetan Buddhism said: \"The Karmapa has many devotees, including from China,\" he told reporters in Bangalore. \"Some money would have naturally been received by him [from devotees] \u2026 There has been some negligence [on the part of monastery officials]. It is better now to have a thorough investigation.\"Experts say the Karmapa is being groomed as a possible replacement for the Dalai Lama, who has publicly suggested that he might retire from political life within six months.The Gyuto monastery was raided after police stumbled upon around \u00a314,000 in a car in which two Indians were travelling. The car's occupants claimed they had received the cash from the monastery as part-payment for the purchase of land, for the construction of a monastery.The Karmapa's legal counsel, Naresh Mathur, told journalists that the money found in the monastery was composed of donations from devotees who came from all over the world, including Tibet.", "tags": ["Dalai Lama", "Buddhism", "India", "World news", "China", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Karmapa devotees demonstrate across India"},{"date": "2011-03-08T00:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "A child of the late 80s and 90s, I was a young girl when satellite television was introduced in India.It brought along an overdose of Bollywood, soaps and reality TV, which I feel has been brutal on India's girls. In response to youth culture prompted by these changes, the moral police has been raising its head, targeting young girls.Perhaps it is due to the ubiquity of information and dramatisation of the news media, but I feel that violence against women in India has increased greatly during my lifetime. While it has become increasingly easier for urban Indian women to work even after marriage, the expectations on them remain cripplingly unrealistic.As I sought out strong Indian female role models while growing up, I found that phenomenally powerful women abound. India's first female police officer, Kiran Bedi, has influenced tens of thousands through radical prison reforms, daring to question the practices of generations of men before her. She is bringing India's women centre-stage in the fight against corruption. Women are CEOs of large companies, philanthropists, and icons of style and grace.We're a country of over a billion people, with a large young population, deep socioeconomic disparities, and an ancient democratic tradition. It should come as no surprise that youth movements working for equality are everywhere. The promise that India's girls hold can be felt in the electrifying energy around young female doctors and IT workers, and girls who ferociously compete for the best grades with their male classmates.I was the first girl in my extended family to travel abroad alone for study. For this, my mother faced much character assassination. I have been lucky to have had parents who responded by trusting me unconditionally.These are the people we must celebrate on International Women's Day: apparently ordinary men and women who blaze trails at the risk of violence and ostracism. Development progresses due to them, inch by inch, from one generation to another.I do believe that our time has come. I believe in my generation \u2013 and I hope you will too.", "tags": ["Global development", "Gender", "World news", "International Women's Day", "Women", "Life and style", "India"], "title": "Life in India on International Women's Day"},{"date": "2011-03-03T11:20:45Z", "country": "india", "content": "Sugandha is conducting a session on raising awareness about the perils of child marriage among a group of schoolgirls. They listen with rapt attention to the didi (elder sister) they all admire. Sugandha came back to school after being married and then thrown out of her in-laws' home when her first-born died.\"Right now I work as a peer educator for a programme called Youth for Change. We arrange meetings and inform people about the ill effects of early marriages. Moreover, we have been successful in stopping a few child marriages,\" she says proudly.Sugandha lives in Uttar Pradesh \u2013 one of the largest states in India \u2013 where 40% of girls are married before the age of 18, according to the District Level Household and Facility Survey \u2013 3. Uttar Pradesh is among the top five states in India when it comes to rates of child marriage. Development indicators are among the lowest, and poverty, gender discrimination and migration have a big impact on child marriage and on the health of girls and young women.Many rationalisations are made for marrying girls young, even though the marriage of those under 18 has been illegal since 1929, ie since the era of the British rule in India.\"My father died when I was quite young. Because of this there was pressure from the village, which forced my mother to get me married at a young age. I was very young \u2013 I couldn't say anything, I didn't understand,\" says Sugandha.Despite new provisions having been made under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act 2006, under which a child marriage prohibition officer must be in place at the local level, implementation is weak. The officer must ensure no child marriages takes place in their jurisdiction by approaching the courts for an injunction, collecting evidence against people, creating awareness about the negative effects of child marriage, and collecting data concerning child marriages, among other functions.However, the elected village head in Sugandha's village said: \"I have heard that child marriage is an offence but I have not read the law yet. Even now child marriage is taking place, because people say that a girl is someone else's property, therefore she should be married as soon as possible so she goes to her \"own\" home. I'm faced with a situation where if I take any action against them, the villagers will be up against me. So even if I know, I think it's best that I keep quiet.\"Despite an awareness of the law, and of the consequences of child marriage on the sexual and reproductive health of girls and young women, the gender disparity and a disregard for women in society means there is a lack of political will to see the law to its execution at the grassroots. According to Unicef's State of the World's Children Report 2007: \"Premature pregnancy and motherhood are an inevitable consequence of child marriage. Girls under 15 are five times more likely to die during pregnancy and childbirth than women in their 20s.\"In another district of Uttar Pradesh, closer to the Indian capital, New Delhi, a group of boys and young men are listening to another peer educator talk about sexual and reproductive health. One of the young men tentatively raises his hand to ask, \"Every time I have sex with my wife, she falls ill. Why is that?\"Not only is pregnancy a big concern for girls who have been married young, but also the act of sex has not been demystified and remains an unpleasant act at best, or worse, an act of violence. Girls and young women's sexuality is denied all their lives and then they are suddenly pushed into a marital relationship where they are expected to satisfy their husbands and prove their fertility.The law also puts the onus for prevention of child marriage on the person performing the ceremony. However, the priest in Sugandha's village said, \"We have not received any guidelines or any rules [on the Child Marriage Act], but I can tell you that marriage should be when the girl is 18 or over, when she is ready to understand and mature enough to shoulder responsibilities. [But] every year we perform five to eight marriages where they are below 15 or 15 to 16 years old. Even now we'll be doing so \u2013 the dates are booked.\"The International Planned Parenthood Federation considers child marriage to be a human rights violation. Ending child marriage is essential to make progress towards international and national development goals, including the millennium development goals.Some names in this article have been changed. Arushi Singh is youth programme officer, International Planned Parenthood Federation, south Asia region", "tags": ["Global development", "Gender", "Children", "Forced marriage", "Child protection", "Child marriage"], "title": "Ending child marriage in India"},{"date": "2011-01-31T18:52:22Z", "country": "india", "content": "Thousands of devotees and monks demonstrated today across India to show their support for Tibetan Buddhism's third most important spiritual leader, who has been repeatedly questioned by Indian police about cash worth around \u00a3500,000 found in the Buddhist monastery in northern India where he lives.Lines of Tibetan exiles carried candles and pictures of the Karmapa, whose full name is Ogyen Trinley Dorje, in a series of vigils. The Karmapa, seen as a possible successor to the Dalai Lama, has denied allegations of wrongdoing. An aide has been arrested.This weekend large sums of Indian and foreign currency were recovered from the monastery near the Himalayan foothill town of Dharamsala where the lama lives. The cash included large amounts of Chinese yuan, sparking accusations, vociferously denied, that the 25-year-old lama [spiritual leader] is a Chinese spy.The office of the Karmapa, who fled from Tibet to India 11 years ago, said in a statement: \"Everyone who knows the history of our lineage, our struggle and his holiness's life is very surprised by the allegations. We categorically deny having any link whatsoever with any arm of the Chinese government.\"Supporters were swift to defend the young monk. \"The way the Karmapa has conducted himself in exile has been quite exemplary,\" said Youdon Aukatsang, a Tibetan living in Delhi. \"For the police to jump to the conclusion that he is a Chinese spy because of the money found at the monastery is ridiculous.\"One UK-based campaigner said: \"The Karmapa has always been under protection and accompanied everywhere, even up and downstairs from his private quarters to the temple, by Indian security.\"The position of the Tibetan community in India, estimated to be 200,000-strong, is a delicate one as tensions between India and China rise. The Karmapa himself is a controversial figure, with some within Tibetan Buddhism denying his claim to be the reincarnation of the 16th Karmapa.Ever since his sudden arrival in India as a teenager in January 2000, Delhi has been suspicious. A former official maintained that this was because intelligence services doubted he could have left Tibet without the knowledge of Chinese authorities.In remarks quoted in Indian media, a Chinese Communist party official told reporters: \"The speculation by India's media regarding the matter of the Karmapa as a Chinese agent or spy shows that India is keeping its mistrustful attitude toward China.\"The Dalai Lama, the spiritual head of Tibetan Buddhism said: \"The Karmapa has many devotees, including from China,\" he told reporters in Bangalore. \"Some money would have naturally been received by him [from devotees] \u2026 There has been some negligence [on the part of monastery officials]. It is better now to have a thorough investigation.\"Experts say the Karmapa is being groomed as a possible replacement for the Dalai Lama, who has publicly suggested that he might retire from political life within six months.The Gyuto monastery was raided after police stumbled upon around \u00a314,000 in a car in which two Indians were travelling. The car's occupants claimed they had received the cash from the monastery as part-payment for the purchase of land, for the construction of a monastery.The Karmapa's legal counsel, Naresh Mathur, told journalists that the money found in the monastery was composed of donations from devotees who came from all over the world, including Tibet.", "tags": ["Dalai Lama", "Buddhism", "India", "World news", "China", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Karmapa devotees demonstrate across India"},{"date": "2011-03-08T00:01:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "A child of the late 80s and 90s, I was a young girl when satellite television was introduced in India.It brought along an overdose of Bollywood, soaps and reality TV, which I feel has been brutal on India's girls. In response to youth culture prompted by these changes, the moral police has been raising its head, targeting young girls.Perhaps it is due to the ubiquity of information and dramatisation of the news media, but I feel that violence against women in India has increased greatly during my lifetime. While it has become increasingly easier for urban Indian women to work even after marriage, the expectations on them remain cripplingly unrealistic.As I sought out strong Indian female role models while growing up, I found that phenomenally powerful women abound. India's first female police officer, Kiran Bedi, has influenced tens of thousands through radical prison reforms, daring to question the practices of generations of men before her. She is bringing India's women centre-stage in the fight against corruption. Women are CEOs of large companies, philanthropists, and icons of style and grace.We're a country of over a billion people, with a large young population, deep socioeconomic disparities, and an ancient democratic tradition. It should come as no surprise that youth movements working for equality are everywhere. The promise that India's girls hold can be felt in the electrifying energy around young female doctors and IT workers, and girls who ferociously compete for the best grades with their male classmates.I was the first girl in my extended family to travel abroad alone for study. For this, my mother faced much character assassination. I have been lucky to have had parents who responded by trusting me unconditionally.These are the people we must celebrate on International Women's Day: apparently ordinary men and women who blaze trails at the risk of violence and ostracism. Development progresses due to them, inch by inch, from one generation to another.I do believe that our time has come. I believe in my generation \u2013 and I hope you will too.", "tags": ["Global development", "Gender", "World news", "International Women's Day", "Women", "Life and style", "India"], "title": "Life in India on International Women's Day"},{"date": "2011-03-03T19:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "In the humid, palm-fringed surrounds of the annual Indian Science Congress in Kerala, the country's top researchers and politicians had come together to discuss what they could do to make their nation more powerful in science and technology. The congress was on a scale unimaginable anywhere else in the world \u2013 thousands crowded into huge white tents to hear lectures by physicists and rocket scientists, while wide-eyed schoolchildren posed for photographs with Nobel prize winners. Enthusiasm wasn't even weakened by the midday heat, which caused some visitors to faint while queueing for a nuclear power and space exhibition.It was there last year that the prime minister, Manmohan Singh, made clear India's big plan for its technological future: There's no doubt about it: the country is furiously pursuing development through science and technology. The aim is to more than double investment in research and development, which could put it in the same league as Japan and the US.Most industrialised countries spend around 2% of GDP on research and development. Right now, India spends 0.8%, placing it alongside South Africa and Brazil. By next year it hopes to ramp this up to 1.2%, and in the longer term is determined to reach 2% \u2013 well ahead of China, on 1.5%. The UK, which spends around 1.8%, is freezing its science budget in cash terms for the next four years (which means a fall in real terms). So India's trajectory could eventually see it outpace Britain \u2013 once the world's science powerhouse. And it's a trajectory reflected in the rise of the world's 11th largest economy, with a GDP growth rate of around 9% \u2013 putting India hot on the heels of Russia and Canada, and already wealthier than Australia and Spain.This might sound surprising to some: India has about as many illiterate adults as the entire US population, and even I needed convincing that it really does have the ingredients to become a science superpower. But although it's true that many laboratories are rough and ready, and IT companies tend to focus more on back-office outsourcing for western firms than in-house innovation, India's scientific revolution has already begun.Among the 600,000 engineering graduates produced every year is a growing cohort of innovative geeks. In the months following last year's congress, I travelled the length of India, from the rural cotton belt to slick IT parks. I saw how expertise in western software really is starting to transform into a culture of originality. In Delhi and Bengaluru young entrepreneurs are developing a voice-based internet, which promises to both localise the web to the smallest communities and make it accessible to anyone with a simple mobile phone. Bangaluru has regular meet-ups for design and tech folk, the buzzing environment reminding them of Silicon Valley. This is one of the reasons that India's software industry is set to be worth $12bn by 2015.Though most Indian laboratories struggle for high-quality equipment, hundreds of biomedical scientists are pooling research to develop what may be the first effective cure for tuberculosis (which kills two Indians every three minutes) in 40 years. The Open Source Drug Discovery project, funded by the government on a fraction of what Big Pharma would require, is creating the world's biggest online repository of information about the TB bacterium and how to combat it.The engineering sector saw a growth in job creation of 63% last year, according to India's Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry. And in the coming year, India is expected to create between 10 and 15 million jobs, particularly in biotechnology and IT.As in Japan decades earlier, scientists are creatively overcoming shortfalls in resources to ensure quality of research; and engineers are inventing cheap technologies for the benefit of everyday people. India has become a nation of passionate, hard-working geeks.The focus of last year's congress was India's ambition to send an astronaut into space by 2015. A manned mission may may seem like an extravagance for an emerging economy, but it's just another sign of a nation that can already see the time when states will need a presence in space to assert claims to extraplanetary resources. The west may think India is still in the gutter, but it is looking at the stars.", "tags": ["India", "Science", "World news"], "title": "Angela Saini | India is an emerging geek superpower"},{"date": "2011-05-17T10:17:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "One of the highlights of my job working at Tara Books - a small publisher in Chennai, India - is meeting children who drop by to browse through our books. Chatting to three sisters (aged eight, 10 and 12) last week, the conversation turned to their most beloved characters: Hermione Granger, Charlie (of Chocolate Factory fame), Dick King Smith's Sophie, Violet Baudelaire from A Series of Unfortunate Events, Darrell from the Mallory Towers books, and the cartoon characters Calvin and Hobbes.What struck me about this list (apart from its western bias) was how varied the characters were: a mixture of male and female, heroic and flawed, traditional and unconventional. Very uplifting, especially in light of a recent study showing that male 'central' characters significantly outnumber females in children's books.\"I hadn't really considered the sex of characters in the books that the girls read,\" their mother told me, \"but thinking about it now I guess that they look for their own role models, and are drawn naturally to characters with qualities they admire.\"Being part of a feminist publishing house in India, I've had the chance to think a lot about the role of gender in children's books, and its significance in this part of the world. Stories that appear in the media about Indian women are often very negative, with the themes of forced marriage, the killing of unwanted female children, and low levels of female literacy coming up again and again. These are all very real issues, but they're not the whole story.On a day-to-day basis it's the more mundane signs of inequality that I notice. Walk down the street and tens of motorbikes will whizz past you, almost always driven by men, and more often than not with a woman perched side-saddle on the back. Eat in a local restaurant and you would be hard-pushed to find a female waiter, but go eat in someone's home, and it's a different story. It would be pretty unusual for the lady of the house to sit down and eat with you. She'll be in the kitchen putting the final touches to the next dish, or busy serving the food.And yet, the picture is even more complicated than this. This is a society in which women ARE visible in the workforce \u2013 from construction workers to engineers, doctors to street-side coconut sellers. However, in the words of my male colleague: \"Very, very few Indian men help with household chores. It is just not seen as their role, and this doesn't change if the wife has a job outside the home.\" This is exactly why it's so important that books show different possibilities to children growing up in India: female autorickshaw drivers, fathers who happily spend time in the kitchen preparing dinner, young girls who are not prepared to embody society's expectations of sensitivity and gentleness.One of my favourite Indian \"heroines\" is Jaya \u2013 the central character in Tara's book Trash, which tells the story of a group of ragpicker children living in Chennai. Enterprising, intelligent and brave, Jaya takes care of Velu, a young boy who arrives in the city having run away from his village. It is Jaya who finds Velu food, shows him how to work as a ragpicker, and protects him against adults looking to exploit him.\"Jaya showed me ways I could help other children and the environment\" says Muskan, a nine-year-old who goes to a school for underprivileged children in Mumbai. Neya, whose family live in a more comfortable suburb of Chennai, says: \"I'd like to have a friend like Jaya. She looks after Velu and understands how things work. I don't know anyone just like her, but my sister Maya says that I'm similar to her! I like that idea.\" These seemingly small adjustments in perception and expectation have the potential to bring about real change in the future. Literature may not have all the solutions, but a change in who tells the story, and from which point of view, can alter the way people think.Above all, the strength of literature lies in its subtlety \u2013 it doesn't need to preach, and I have never encountered any resistance to the unconventional characters who appear in our books, even from the most conservative of quarters. At the end of the day what we do is simple and hard to object to. We publish books with characters that demonstrate that people are not defined by whether they happen to be a boy or a girl. And for every child or parent who takes that message on board \u2013 whether consciously or unconsciously \u2013 we've won a small victory.", "tags": ["Teen books", "Children's books: 8-12 years", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "Postcard from India"},{"date": "2011-05-17T10:17:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "One of the highlights of my job working at Tara Books - a small publisher in Chennai, India - is meeting children who drop by to browse through our books. Chatting to three sisters (aged eight, 10 and 12) last week, the conversation turned to their most beloved characters: Hermione Granger, Charlie (of Chocolate Factory fame), Dick King Smith's Sophie, Violet Baudelaire from A Series of Unfortunate Events, Darrell from the Mallory Towers books, and the cartoon characters Calvin and Hobbes.What struck me about this list (apart from its western bias) was how varied the characters were: a mixture of male and female, heroic and flawed, traditional and unconventional. Very uplifting, especially in light of a recent study showing that male 'central' characters significantly outnumber females in children's books.\"I hadn't really considered the sex of characters in the books that the girls read,\" their mother told me, \"but thinking about it now I guess that they look for their own role models, and are drawn naturally to characters with qualities they admire.\"Being part of a feminist publishing house in India, I've had the chance to think a lot about the role of gender in children's books, and its significance in this part of the world. Stories that appear in the media about Indian women are often very negative, with the themes of forced marriage, the killing of unwanted female children, and low levels of female literacy coming up again and again. These are all very real issues, but they're not the whole story.On a day-to-day basis it's the more mundane signs of inequality that I notice. Walk down the street and tens of motorbikes will whizz past you, almost always driven by men, and more often than not with a woman perched side-saddle on the back. Eat in a local restaurant and you would be hard-pushed to find a female waiter, but go eat in someone's home, and it's a different story. It would be pretty unusual for the lady of the house to sit down and eat with you. She'll be in the kitchen putting the final touches to the next dish, or busy serving the food.And yet, the picture is even more complicated than this. This is a society in which women ARE visible in the workforce \u2013 from construction workers to engineers, doctors to street-side coconut sellers. However, in the words of my male colleague: \"Very, very few Indian men help with household chores. It is just not seen as their role, and this doesn't change if the wife has a job outside the home.\" This is exactly why it's so important that books show different possibilities to children growing up in India: female autorickshaw drivers, fathers who happily spend time in the kitchen preparing dinner, young girls who are not prepared to embody society's expectations of sensitivity and gentleness.One of my favourite Indian \"heroines\" is Jaya \u2013 the central character in Tara's book Trash, which tells the story of a group of ragpicker children living in Chennai. Enterprising, intelligent and brave, Jaya takes care of Velu, a young boy who arrives in the city having run away from his village. It is Jaya who finds Velu food, shows him how to work as a ragpicker, and protects him against adults looking to exploit him.\"Jaya showed me ways I could help other children and the environment\" says Muskan, a nine-year-old who goes to a school for underprivileged children in Mumbai. Neya, whose family live in a more comfortable suburb of Chennai, says: \"I'd like to have a friend like Jaya. She looks after Velu and understands how things work. I don't know anyone just like her, but my sister Maya says that I'm similar to her! I like that idea.\" These seemingly small adjustments in perception and expectation have the potential to bring about real change in the future. Literature may not have all the solutions, but a change in who tells the story, and from which point of view, can alter the way people think.Above all, the strength of literature lies in its subtlety \u2013 it doesn't need to preach, and I have never encountered any resistance to the unconventional characters who appear in our books, even from the most conservative of quarters. At the end of the day what we do is simple and hard to object to. We publish books with characters that demonstrate that people are not defined by whether they happen to be a boy or a girl. And for every child or parent who takes that message on board \u2013 whether consciously or unconsciously \u2013 we've won a small victory.", "tags": ["Teen books", "Children's books: 8-12 years", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "Postcard from India"},{"date": "2011-06-24T21:35:01Z", "country": "india", "content": "The first thing that happened was that an old man wearing a cap crowned with a peacock's claw, a hornbill's beak, a bearskin and a pair of knitting needles strolled up to the veranda of the government resthouse. \"You want snakes?\" he asked in broken Hindi, \"Come with me now.\"It was late afternoon. We had only just arrived from Assam, driving north for the last 100 miles up through increasingly thick jungle on a deteriorating dirt road, watching the last vestiges of modern India drop away. The garish advertising went first, the traffic next, then the plastic litter and jerry-built, stained concrete buildings. In their place came deep jungle and mountain rivers, interspersed with bamboo longhouses and people who stared. \"Are you ghosts?\" one man shouted. By the time we reached Leporiang village at the end of the track, we had slipped out of the 21st century and landed, hopeful and smiling, in something very different to the rest of the howling, honking mayhem that is modern India.The north-east of India has never made much of a contribution to the country's tourism phenomenon. There have been, for a start, plenty of political problems. Culturally more akin to Burma or China than Delhi or Mumbai, the region has been a minefield of independence movements and ethnic rivalries. And of these, Arunachal Pradesh is one of the most remote and inaccessible. It covers those jungled mountains that extend 350 miles eastwards from the Bhutanese border all the way to Burma. Claimed by China and largely ignored by Delhi, its steep-sided hills and rampaging rivers have barely been touched by the modern world. Our hosts, the Nyishi tribe, are a people whose knowledge of the lands beyond their jungles was, until half a century ago, largely based on slaving forays among the lowland Assamese. I had arrived as part of a scientific expedition, one that amateur naturalists can accompany, with the aim of collecting snake venom for anti-venom serum.This is not a frivolous or obscure project, as expedition leader Gerry Martin pointed out. \"There are about one million snake bites in India every year \u2013 50,000 of them fatal. Thousands of other people are incapacitated.\"The problem is that Indian snakes are not well studied. Scientists are just beginning to realise that venom is often location-specific and also that certain species may in fact be several distinct species. Our other expert, Rom Whitaker, American-born but brought up in India, is one of the greatest authorities on Indian snakes; he was quick to point out the limitations of current knowledge.\"Take some of the snakes we are looking for here: Medo's pit viper \u2013 we know almost nothing. It's probably a group of species. And Kaulback's pit viper \u2013 discovered in 1940 in south-west China and here in India only three years ago. It's a six-foot-long, highly venomous pit viper \u2013 that's about all we know.\" Rom's particular object of study is king cobras. \"They'll be here for sure.\"I'm no snake expert. In Africa once I was chased by a black mamba and the experience frightened the life out of me. I have very mixed feelings about this trip. But I am not going to have time to dwell on that. No sooner has the old man in the curious tribal hat mentioned his knowledge than we are on the march, heading out past the rice fields, following him down towards the river at the bottom of the valley.We cross the torrent on logs laid across boulders, then climb up to a large flat rock in a bracken-covered clearing. \"They live under there,\" says our informant. Immediately Gerry and his assistant Soham Mukherjee are on their knees shining torches into the cracks. \"Cobras,\" whispers Gerry, \"Big ones.\"A crowd of excited villagers is gathering. For them it is clearly a thrilling novelty that someone might want to catch a snake and not kill it. Rom is showing them identification photographs and they all pick out the monocled cobra as the species we are tackling. They are more interested, however, in another picture: Kaulback's pit viper. \"Oh, very bad!\" says one young man in English \u2013 a language as rare as anti-venom in these parts. \"We call him barta [meaning the deadliest of all snakes] and he is very bad. If you see one, you must kill it immediately or it will follow you home and kill someone in your longhouse.\"\"Where do you find them?\" asks Rom.\"In the jungle \u2013 mountain tops.\"Rom looks doubtful. \"People always think snakes are far away, but in my experience they are close, like this one.\"Gerry is calling him over to the boulder. He's placed a coat over one side of the crack, creating a dark, inviting escape hole. Now he's gently poking with a stick and waving the torch. \"He's coming. You ready, Rom?\"Rom jumps up next to the boulder, a long, hooked snake stick in hand. Some of the local children start running away, a few adults too. The snake, smooth, powerful and grey, shoots out of the hole over Rom's waiting snake hook. Rom grabs it by the tail and lifts it up with the hook. The cobra, furious, whips its body around hissing, but Rom skilfully controls it. Gerry has a canvas bag ready and the six-foot reptile is dropped inside. It immediately settles down, comforted by the darkness. \"They go into a kind of torpor,\" says Gerry. \"We'll keep him a week, then take venom before we release him.\"Walking back to the resthouse, it's getting dark and I'm close behind Rom at a tricky climb over a bamboo fence. Suddenly he stoops down and seizes a snake in the undergrowth and bags it. \"Himalayan keelback,\" he grins. The manouevre is completed so quickly I haven't even seen the creature.Later, this incident prompts me to ask if an untutored outsider can actually help much on an expedition like this.\"Honestly?\" he asks. \"Well, the money from paying guests helps a lot. This kind of expedition would not go ahead without it. And extra pairs of eyes and hands are genuinely useful.\"There is another benefit that I start to appreciate over the following days. Simply by showing an interest in wildlife, the visitor can help transform local attitudes. In Nyishi territory, the birds, for example, are hunted along with other creatures: the deer, the squirrels, the clouded leopard and bear. Tigers and elephants have all but disappeared, though a few old men tell us that they still exist in the most remote areas. Our interest triggers a response. Climbing up a steep hillside cleared for rice, one farmer is keen to show me a nest in his rain shelter, then points out the brilliant colours of a golden-throated barbet on a nearby tree and a pair of woodpeckers. The Nyishi here are hunters and they have an intimate and detailed knowledge of every living creature around them. It just never occurred to them that these might have any use other than food.That evening more people stop by the resthouse \u2013 as we are apparently the first Europeans ever to visit Leporiang, we are treated to a constant stream of curious visitors. They leaf through our books, stare at Gerry's laptop, ask questions: \"Why do you white people all look the same?\"One youth grins at our female expedition members, Janike and Hema, and announces, \"In my grandfather's time we would keep your women and thrash the men.\" We all laugh. I'm pretty sure that \"thrash\" is a euphemism for \"kill\".Almost every middle-aged man carries a sword, and some have bows and poison-tipped arrows in bearskin quivers. The youths scorn such things, preferring hair gel and sneakers. Women are less adorned and appear to do all the work: hoeing the impossibly steep hillsides, carrying vast loads of firewood and cooking our meals in the government resthouse \u2013 Leporiang's only accommodation for visitors. On Sunday they head for the church on the hill and throw themselves, babies on their backs, into frenetic bouts of mass hysteria and swooning. This is a culture that's diving headlong into its own unfathomable future.Among our visitors is one old man who saunters up the veranda and from a basket produces a dead snake \u2013 a gorgeous black, yellow and blue creature about five foot long. The effect on our experts is electric. Janike does a scale count \u2013 a diagnostic test in snakes \u2013 and declares the creature to be a Kaulback's. The old-timer has different ideas.\"It's not barta,\" he says, using the local name. \"It's taji. They are different.\"This is inexplicable, but our scientists do not discount it: knowledge of these snakes is so scarce that every morsel of local information is noted down.The next day we trek for miles, deep into the jungled mountains, to find where this snake lived. The trees are shaggy with orchids and ferns \u2013 entire ecosystems in themselves. The rivers are heaving with fish and tadpoles the size of my thumb. And the vegetation is laden with leeches \u2013 harmless, if unpleasant. We flick them away with increasing regularity. Inside a narrow valley, we locate the precise spot where the Kaulback's pit viper was killed, then we fan out and start searching. Three hours later we have not found any snakes and decide to return. Almost immediately, Soham spots movement in the undergrowth and pounces, triumphantly lifting up a small lizard. It's a long-legged creature with a gorgeous green and orange throat.\"Almost certainly a new species,\" declares Gerry. \"We found one last year in the next valley and no one has yet identified it.\" It seems a pretty good consolation for not finding the viper, but our guides are not satisfied. That night another old man in a Nyishi cap arrives to look at us. News of the strange foreigners who are interested in snakes has reached his longhouse some miles away. \"Search the river at night,\" he tells us. \"The overhanging trees are full of snakes.\"Naturally, a torch-lit search for venomous reptiles while waist-deep in a fast-flowing Himalayan river is a snake-hunter's idea of a good night out. After dinner we head off, myself rather reluctantly at the rear. We clamber down to the river below the village, Gerry and Rom leading the way. Not everyone, it has to be said, would enjoy such abnormal behaviour, but I am about to experience one of the highs that such determination can bring.The river is fast-flowing and 30 metres across. Soon the group is spread out, torches flaring off the trees and water. I find myself wading after Soham \u2013 he found the lizard, I reason, so maybe good luck is with him. We get separated from the others and come across two local men hunting fish with their hands. It's one of them who shouts the warning. \"Look up!\"On a branch 10 feet above the raging torrent is a coiled emerald-green serpent, its head the shape of a blunt arrowhead. We inch closer. The boulders are desperately slippery and I go down once, grateful I've packed my camera in a dry bag. The fisherman, eager to help, grabs the branch and shakes. The viper falls in the river among us. Soham coolly dives forward and grabs its tail, then gets it on his snake stick. We all shuffle and stumble towards a sandbank to get a closer look at this phenomenally beautiful creature, so perfect in every precisely defined scale and feature.Back at base camp we get further treats: Leporiang has only recently got electricity and there are a few bulbs in town, some of them on our veranda. The light has brought visitors: a huge pale moth, pressed to the door like a fallen moon, then another, as broad as my outstretched hand, with huge brown eyes on its furry wings.The days roll by and the end of the week arrives. It's time to inspect all our snakes \u2013 nine of them \u2013 to identify and photograph them. Unfortunately, I am going to miss the venom extraction as the necessary ice has not arrived from Assam, but we go through the identification. First is a green rat snake \u2013 non-venomous, so I have a go at handling it. Then come keelbacks \u2013 Himalayan and St John's \u2013 and two Medo's pit vipers, one a baby with its umbilical cord mark still visible (most vipers give birth rather than laying eggs). Next is a false cobra and a strange burrowing snake, more like a worm, really. Finally we come to the two cobras. Gerry prepares carefully. This is a big, fast animal and extremely venomous. As it drops out of the bag it's clearly angry, hissing loudly. Held by the tail, however, the snake rears up and spreads its hood.\"Monocled cobra,\" someone shouts confidently. But Rom is frowning. \"I'm not so sure. Let's do the scale counts.\"They place the snake's head in a clear plastic tube to prevent any mishaps and start the counts. Janike immediately announces that nothing fits the expected figures for a monocled cobra \u2013 a well-known Indian species. \"Check the tail-to-body ratio,\" she says.When the result is shouted out, Rom shakes his head. \"That's incredible. I mean, what is this thing?\"Further results only increase his consternation. The snake, meanwhile, is getting tired. They pop it back in the bag to rest. It feels like no one dares say it, so I do. \"New species of cobra?\"Gerry and Rom share a glance. \"Could be.\"\"It's a long process,\" explains Gerry. \"And the truth is we are probably looking at a local variation within the monocled species.\"That night, my last in Leporiang, I\u00a0wander out among the paddy fields, treading carefully on the narrow earthen bunds that separate the fields. Thousands of frogs are celebrating the arrival of the monsoons, and no doubt, so too are the vipers, the cobras and the keelbacks. On either side of me, I\u00a0can sense, rather than see, the jungle:\u00a0a dark shadow that rises up. I\u00a0had never expected that such a place could exist in modern India, a place so unknown and untouched. In this province the local government is planning dozens of new hydroelectric dams, and yet the contents of that astonishingly diverse jungle remain largely unknown and undiscovered. If paying guests can help scientific expeditions like ours to take place,\u00a0then the tourist dollar, I\u00a0reckon, will be well spent.Getting therePlanet Wildlife (0845 519 4948, planetwildlife.com) is running a 12-day trip to the Gujarat highlands in October led by Gerry Martin to see snakes, birds and Asiatic lions for \u00a31,648pp, excluding flights. Planet Wildlife can also arrange flights from London to Ahmedabad \u2013 ask for details. Emirates (emirates.com) has return flights via Dubai from \u00a3500 for travel in\u00a0October. Kevin travelled from York to\u00a0London with East Coast Trains (eastcoast.co.uk). Returns from \u00a320Further informationFor details of other Gerry Martin expeditions, see gerrymartin.in. To see king cobras in the UK, visit the King Cobra Sanctuary (07508 797010, kingcobrasanctuary.com) in Eastwood, near Nottingham. To get involved with reptile and amphibian conservation in the UK, contact Amphibian and Reptile Groups of the UK, arguk.org", "tags": ["India holidays", "Safaris", "Asia", "Wildlife holidays", "Travel", "Adventure travel", "Snakes"], "title": "A snake safari in India"},{"date": "2011-05-17T10:17:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "One of the highlights of my job working at Tara Books - a small publisher in Chennai, India - is meeting children who drop by to browse through our books. Chatting to three sisters (aged eight, 10 and 12) last week, the conversation turned to their most beloved characters: Hermione Granger, Charlie (of Chocolate Factory fame), Dick King Smith's Sophie, Violet Baudelaire from A Series of Unfortunate Events, Darrell from the Mallory Towers books, and the cartoon characters Calvin and Hobbes.What struck me about this list (apart from its western bias) was how varied the characters were: a mixture of male and female, heroic and flawed, traditional and unconventional. Very uplifting, especially in light of a recent study showing that male 'central' characters significantly outnumber females in children's books.\"I hadn't really considered the sex of characters in the books that the girls read,\" their mother told me, \"but thinking about it now I guess that they look for their own role models, and are drawn naturally to characters with qualities they admire.\"Being part of a feminist publishing house in India, I've had the chance to think a lot about the role of gender in children's books, and its significance in this part of the world. Stories that appear in the media about Indian women are often very negative, with the themes of forced marriage, the killing of unwanted female children, and low levels of female literacy coming up again and again. These are all very real issues, but they're not the whole story.On a day-to-day basis it's the more mundane signs of inequality that I notice. Walk down the street and tens of motorbikes will whizz past you, almost always driven by men, and more often than not with a woman perched side-saddle on the back. Eat in a local restaurant and you would be hard-pushed to find a female waiter, but go eat in someone's home, and it's a different story. It would be pretty unusual for the lady of the house to sit down and eat with you. She'll be in the kitchen putting the final touches to the next dish, or busy serving the food.And yet, the picture is even more complicated than this. This is a society in which women ARE visible in the workforce \u2013 from construction workers to engineers, doctors to street-side coconut sellers. However, in the words of my male colleague: \"Very, very few Indian men help with household chores. It is just not seen as their role, and this doesn't change if the wife has a job outside the home.\" This is exactly why it's so important that books show different possibilities to children growing up in India: female autorickshaw drivers, fathers who happily spend time in the kitchen preparing dinner, young girls who are not prepared to embody society's expectations of sensitivity and gentleness.One of my favourite Indian \"heroines\" is Jaya \u2013 the central character in Tara's book Trash, which tells the story of a group of ragpicker children living in Chennai. Enterprising, intelligent and brave, Jaya takes care of Velu, a young boy who arrives in the city having run away from his village. It is Jaya who finds Velu food, shows him how to work as a ragpicker, and protects him against adults looking to exploit him.\"Jaya showed me ways I could help other children and the environment\" says Muskan, a nine-year-old who goes to a school for underprivileged children in Mumbai. Neya, whose family live in a more comfortable suburb of Chennai, says: \"I'd like to have a friend like Jaya. She looks after Velu and understands how things work. I don't know anyone just like her, but my sister Maya says that I'm similar to her! I like that idea.\" These seemingly small adjustments in perception and expectation have the potential to bring about real change in the future. Literature may not have all the solutions, but a change in who tells the story, and from which point of view, can alter the way people think.Above all, the strength of literature lies in its subtlety \u2013 it doesn't need to preach, and I have never encountered any resistance to the unconventional characters who appear in our books, even from the most conservative of quarters. At the end of the day what we do is simple and hard to object to. We publish books with characters that demonstrate that people are not defined by whether they happen to be a boy or a girl. And for every child or parent who takes that message on board \u2013 whether consciously or unconsciously \u2013 we've won a small victory.", "tags": ["Teen books", "Children's books: 8-12 years", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "Postcard from India"},{"date": "2011-06-24T21:35:01Z", "country": "india", "content": "The first thing that happened was that an old man wearing a cap crowned with a peacock's claw, a hornbill's beak, a bearskin and a pair of knitting needles strolled up to the veranda of the government resthouse. \"You want snakes?\" he asked in broken Hindi, \"Come with me now.\"It was late afternoon. We had only just arrived from Assam, driving north for the last 100 miles up through increasingly thick jungle on a deteriorating dirt road, watching the last vestiges of modern India drop away. The garish advertising went first, the traffic next, then the plastic litter and jerry-built, stained concrete buildings. In their place came deep jungle and mountain rivers, interspersed with bamboo longhouses and people who stared. \"Are you ghosts?\" one man shouted. By the time we reached Leporiang village at the end of the track, we had slipped out of the 21st century and landed, hopeful and smiling, in something very different to the rest of the howling, honking mayhem that is modern India.The north-east of India has never made much of a contribution to the country's tourism phenomenon. There have been, for a start, plenty of political problems. Culturally more akin to Burma or China than Delhi or Mumbai, the region has been a minefield of independence movements and ethnic rivalries. And of these, Arunachal Pradesh is one of the most remote and inaccessible. It covers those jungled mountains that extend 350 miles eastwards from the Bhutanese border all the way to Burma. Claimed by China and largely ignored by Delhi, its steep-sided hills and rampaging rivers have barely been touched by the modern world. Our hosts, the Nyishi tribe, are a people whose knowledge of the lands beyond their jungles was, until half a century ago, largely based on slaving forays among the lowland Assamese. I had arrived as part of a scientific expedition, one that amateur naturalists can accompany, with the aim of collecting snake venom for anti-venom serum.This is not a frivolous or obscure project, as expedition leader Gerry Martin pointed out. \"There are about one million snake bites in India every year \u2013 50,000 of them fatal. Thousands of other people are incapacitated.\"The problem is that Indian snakes are not well studied. Scientists are just beginning to realise that venom is often location-specific and also that certain species may in fact be several distinct species. Our other expert, Rom Whitaker, American-born but brought up in India, is one of the greatest authorities on Indian snakes; he was quick to point out the limitations of current knowledge.\"Take some of the snakes we are looking for here: Medo's pit viper \u2013 we know almost nothing. It's probably a group of species. And Kaulback's pit viper \u2013 discovered in 1940 in south-west China and here in India only three years ago. It's a six-foot-long, highly venomous pit viper \u2013 that's about all we know.\" Rom's particular object of study is king cobras. \"They'll be here for sure.\"I'm no snake expert. In Africa once I was chased by a black mamba and the experience frightened the life out of me. I have very mixed feelings about this trip. But I am not going to have time to dwell on that. No sooner has the old man in the curious tribal hat mentioned his knowledge than we are on the march, heading out past the rice fields, following him down towards the river at the bottom of the valley.We cross the torrent on logs laid across boulders, then climb up to a large flat rock in a bracken-covered clearing. \"They live under there,\" says our informant. Immediately Gerry and his assistant Soham Mukherjee are on their knees shining torches into the cracks. \"Cobras,\" whispers Gerry, \"Big ones.\"A crowd of excited villagers is gathering. For them it is clearly a thrilling novelty that someone might want to catch a snake and not kill it. Rom is showing them identification photographs and they all pick out the monocled cobra as the species we are tackling. They are more interested, however, in another picture: Kaulback's pit viper. \"Oh, very bad!\" says one young man in English \u2013 a language as rare as anti-venom in these parts. \"We call him barta [meaning the deadliest of all snakes] and he is very bad. If you see one, you must kill it immediately or it will follow you home and kill someone in your longhouse.\"\"Where do you find them?\" asks Rom.\"In the jungle \u2013 mountain tops.\"Rom looks doubtful. \"People always think snakes are far away, but in my experience they are close, like this one.\"Gerry is calling him over to the boulder. He's placed a coat over one side of the crack, creating a dark, inviting escape hole. Now he's gently poking with a stick and waving the torch. \"He's coming. You ready, Rom?\"Rom jumps up next to the boulder, a long, hooked snake stick in hand. Some of the local children start running away, a few adults too. The snake, smooth, powerful and grey, shoots out of the hole over Rom's waiting snake hook. Rom grabs it by the tail and lifts it up with the hook. The cobra, furious, whips its body around hissing, but Rom skilfully controls it. Gerry has a canvas bag ready and the six-foot reptile is dropped inside. It immediately settles down, comforted by the darkness. \"They go into a kind of torpor,\" says Gerry. \"We'll keep him a week, then take venom before we release him.\"Walking back to the resthouse, it's getting dark and I'm close behind Rom at a tricky climb over a bamboo fence. Suddenly he stoops down and seizes a snake in the undergrowth and bags it. \"Himalayan keelback,\" he grins. The manouevre is completed so quickly I haven't even seen the creature.Later, this incident prompts me to ask if an untutored outsider can actually help much on an expedition like this.\"Honestly?\" he asks. \"Well, the money from paying guests helps a lot. This kind of expedition would not go ahead without it. And extra pairs of eyes and hands are genuinely useful.\"There is another benefit that I start to appreciate over the following days. Simply by showing an interest in wildlife, the visitor can help transform local attitudes. In Nyishi territory, the birds, for example, are hunted along with other creatures: the deer, the squirrels, the clouded leopard and bear. Tigers and elephants have all but disappeared, though a few old men tell us that they still exist in the most remote areas. Our interest triggers a response. Climbing up a steep hillside cleared for rice, one farmer is keen to show me a nest in his rain shelter, then points out the brilliant colours of a golden-throated barbet on a nearby tree and a pair of woodpeckers. The Nyishi here are hunters and they have an intimate and detailed knowledge of every living creature around them. It just never occurred to them that these might have any use other than food.That evening more people stop by the resthouse \u2013 as we are apparently the first Europeans ever to visit Leporiang, we are treated to a constant stream of curious visitors. They leaf through our books, stare at Gerry's laptop, ask questions: \"Why do you white people all look the same?\"One youth grins at our female expedition members, Janike and Hema, and announces, \"In my grandfather's time we would keep your women and thrash the men.\" We all laugh. I'm pretty sure that \"thrash\" is a euphemism for \"kill\".Almost every middle-aged man carries a sword, and some have bows and poison-tipped arrows in bearskin quivers. The youths scorn such things, preferring hair gel and sneakers. Women are less adorned and appear to do all the work: hoeing the impossibly steep hillsides, carrying vast loads of firewood and cooking our meals in the government resthouse \u2013 Leporiang's only accommodation for visitors. On Sunday they head for the church on the hill and throw themselves, babies on their backs, into frenetic bouts of mass hysteria and swooning. This is a culture that's diving headlong into its own unfathomable future.Among our visitors is one old man who saunters up the veranda and from a basket produces a dead snake \u2013 a gorgeous black, yellow and blue creature about five foot long. The effect on our experts is electric. Janike does a scale count \u2013 a diagnostic test in snakes \u2013 and declares the creature to be a Kaulback's. The old-timer has different ideas.\"It's not barta,\" he says, using the local name. \"It's taji. They are different.\"This is inexplicable, but our scientists do not discount it: knowledge of these snakes is so scarce that every morsel of local information is noted down.The next day we trek for miles, deep into the jungled mountains, to find where this snake lived. The trees are shaggy with orchids and ferns \u2013 entire ecosystems in themselves. The rivers are heaving with fish and tadpoles the size of my thumb. And the vegetation is laden with leeches \u2013 harmless, if unpleasant. We flick them away with increasing regularity. Inside a narrow valley, we locate the precise spot where the Kaulback's pit viper was killed, then we fan out and start searching. Three hours later we have not found any snakes and decide to return. Almost immediately, Soham spots movement in the undergrowth and pounces, triumphantly lifting up a small lizard. It's a long-legged creature with a gorgeous green and orange throat.\"Almost certainly a new species,\" declares Gerry. \"We found one last year in the next valley and no one has yet identified it.\" It seems a pretty good consolation for not finding the viper, but our guides are not satisfied. That night another old man in a Nyishi cap arrives to look at us. News of the strange foreigners who are interested in snakes has reached his longhouse some miles away. \"Search the river at night,\" he tells us. \"The overhanging trees are full of snakes.\"Naturally, a torch-lit search for venomous reptiles while waist-deep in a fast-flowing Himalayan river is a snake-hunter's idea of a good night out. After dinner we head off, myself rather reluctantly at the rear. We clamber down to the river below the village, Gerry and Rom leading the way. Not everyone, it has to be said, would enjoy such abnormal behaviour, but I am about to experience one of the highs that such determination can bring.The river is fast-flowing and 30 metres across. Soon the group is spread out, torches flaring off the trees and water. I find myself wading after Soham \u2013 he found the lizard, I reason, so maybe good luck is with him. We get separated from the others and come across two local men hunting fish with their hands. It's one of them who shouts the warning. \"Look up!\"On a branch 10 feet above the raging torrent is a coiled emerald-green serpent, its head the shape of a blunt arrowhead. We inch closer. The boulders are desperately slippery and I go down once, grateful I've packed my camera in a dry bag. The fisherman, eager to help, grabs the branch and shakes. The viper falls in the river among us. Soham coolly dives forward and grabs its tail, then gets it on his snake stick. We all shuffle and stumble towards a sandbank to get a closer look at this phenomenally beautiful creature, so perfect in every precisely defined scale and feature.Back at base camp we get further treats: Leporiang has only recently got electricity and there are a few bulbs in town, some of them on our veranda. The light has brought visitors: a huge pale moth, pressed to the door like a fallen moon, then another, as broad as my outstretched hand, with huge brown eyes on its furry wings.The days roll by and the end of the week arrives. It's time to inspect all our snakes \u2013 nine of them \u2013 to identify and photograph them. Unfortunately, I am going to miss the venom extraction as the necessary ice has not arrived from Assam, but we go through the identification. First is a green rat snake \u2013 non-venomous, so I have a go at handling it. Then come keelbacks \u2013 Himalayan and St John's \u2013 and two Medo's pit vipers, one a baby with its umbilical cord mark still visible (most vipers give birth rather than laying eggs). Next is a false cobra and a strange burrowing snake, more like a worm, really. Finally we come to the two cobras. Gerry prepares carefully. This is a big, fast animal and extremely venomous. As it drops out of the bag it's clearly angry, hissing loudly. Held by the tail, however, the snake rears up and spreads its hood.\"Monocled cobra,\" someone shouts confidently. But Rom is frowning. \"I'm not so sure. Let's do the scale counts.\"They place the snake's head in a clear plastic tube to prevent any mishaps and start the counts. Janike immediately announces that nothing fits the expected figures for a monocled cobra \u2013 a well-known Indian species. \"Check the tail-to-body ratio,\" she says.When the result is shouted out, Rom shakes his head. \"That's incredible. I mean, what is this thing?\"Further results only increase his consternation. The snake, meanwhile, is getting tired. They pop it back in the bag to rest. It feels like no one dares say it, so I do. \"New species of cobra?\"Gerry and Rom share a glance. \"Could be.\"\"It's a long process,\" explains Gerry. \"And the truth is we are probably looking at a local variation within the monocled species.\"That night, my last in Leporiang, I\u00a0wander out among the paddy fields, treading carefully on the narrow earthen bunds that separate the fields. Thousands of frogs are celebrating the arrival of the monsoons, and no doubt, so too are the vipers, the cobras and the keelbacks. On either side of me, I\u00a0can sense, rather than see, the jungle:\u00a0a dark shadow that rises up. I\u00a0had never expected that such a place could exist in modern India, a place so unknown and untouched. In this province the local government is planning dozens of new hydroelectric dams, and yet the contents of that astonishingly diverse jungle remain largely unknown and undiscovered. If paying guests can help scientific expeditions like ours to take place,\u00a0then the tourist dollar, I\u00a0reckon, will be well spent.Getting therePlanet Wildlife (0845 519 4948, planetwildlife.com) is running a 12-day trip to the Gujarat highlands in October led by Gerry Martin to see snakes, birds and Asiatic lions for \u00a31,648pp, excluding flights. Planet Wildlife can also arrange flights from London to Ahmedabad \u2013 ask for details. Emirates (emirates.com) has return flights via Dubai from \u00a3500 for travel in\u00a0October. Kevin travelled from York to\u00a0London with East Coast Trains (eastcoast.co.uk). Returns from \u00a320Further informationFor details of other Gerry Martin expeditions, see gerrymartin.in. To see king cobras in the UK, visit the King Cobra Sanctuary (07508 797010, kingcobrasanctuary.com) in Eastwood, near Nottingham. To get involved with reptile and amphibian conservation in the UK, contact Amphibian and Reptile Groups of the UK, arguk.org", "tags": ["India holidays", "Safaris", "Asia", "Wildlife holidays", "Travel", "Adventure travel", "Snakes"], "title": "A snake safari in India"},{"date": "2011-06-08T09:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The life of someone living with HIV in India today is better compared with a few years ago, thanks to improved healthcare, provision of antiretrovirals (ARVs) and treatment for infections.People are living longer and healthier lives, but stigma and discrimination remain an issue in communities and within healthcare facilities. It is definitely worse for female sex workers, men who have sex with men (MSM, men who do not identify as homosexual or gay and are almost always married), transgendered people and hijras living with HIV. There is a real need to address the attitudes of healthcare providers and the rampant stigma against these people. It particularly hampers their access to treatment.Many people with HIV live far from their nearest ARV centre. The distance, time and money required to access treatment, and the fact that the services are not tailored to meet the needs of the communities, are huge challenges. Also, there's virtually nothing in terms of psychosocial support for those living with HIV.As an MSM living with HIV, I face challenges to access healthcare and feel that I don't have the same opportunities or social status as others. There is a lack of work opportunities for MSM, transgendered people and hijras living with HIV, which makes them more vulnerable and sometimes leads them to into sex work. Lack of work makes them feel even more isolated and worthless which can create mental health issues.Meeting the goal of MDG6 is a big challenge in India, though we have made progress. India has successfully started developing strategies with active community involvement and participation. HIV incidence in some states has also started declining, according to the limited data we have.Political and donor commitment is crucial. The goal of the national programme to halt and reverse the epidemic is far from achieved.The contribution from the international community (donors, governments, foundations and civil society partners) has helped India in different ways to control the epidemic. At this crucial juncture, the international community needs to continue to support programmes for prevention as well as care and support for those living with HIV.The international community can also contribute to the Indian response through policy and advocacy, and constant monitoring to ensure that the human rights of those affected by the epidemic are being adequately protected.\u2022 Vijay Nair works with Alliance India at its Andhra Pradesh office. He is also the director of the Asia Pacific Coalition on MSM and president of Nipasha+, a national network of MSM, transgenders and hijras living with HIV and Aids", "tags": ["Global development", "India", "World news"], "title": "Living with HIV in India"},{"date": "2011-05-17T10:17:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "One of the highlights of my job working at Tara Books - a small publisher in Chennai, India - is meeting children who drop by to browse through our books. Chatting to three sisters (aged eight, 10 and 12) last week, the conversation turned to their most beloved characters: Hermione Granger, Charlie (of Chocolate Factory fame), Dick King Smith's Sophie, Violet Baudelaire from A Series of Unfortunate Events, Darrell from the Mallory Towers books, and the cartoon characters Calvin and Hobbes.What struck me about this list (apart from its western bias) was how varied the characters were: a mixture of male and female, heroic and flawed, traditional and unconventional. Very uplifting, especially in light of a recent study showing that male 'central' characters significantly outnumber females in children's books.\"I hadn't really considered the sex of characters in the books that the girls read,\" their mother told me, \"but thinking about it now I guess that they look for their own role models, and are drawn naturally to characters with qualities they admire.\"Being part of a feminist publishing house in India, I've had the chance to think a lot about the role of gender in children's books, and its significance in this part of the world. Stories that appear in the media about Indian women are often very negative, with the themes of forced marriage, the killing of unwanted female children, and low levels of female literacy coming up again and again. These are all very real issues, but they're not the whole story.On a day-to-day basis it's the more mundane signs of inequality that I notice. Walk down the street and tens of motorbikes will whizz past you, almost always driven by men, and more often than not with a woman perched side-saddle on the back. Eat in a local restaurant and you would be hard-pushed to find a female waiter, but go eat in someone's home, and it's a different story. It would be pretty unusual for the lady of the house to sit down and eat with you. She'll be in the kitchen putting the final touches to the next dish, or busy serving the food.And yet, the picture is even more complicated than this. This is a society in which women ARE visible in the workforce \u2013 from construction workers to engineers, doctors to street-side coconut sellers. However, in the words of my male colleague: \"Very, very few Indian men help with household chores. It is just not seen as their role, and this doesn't change if the wife has a job outside the home.\" This is exactly why it's so important that books show different possibilities to children growing up in India: female autorickshaw drivers, fathers who happily spend time in the kitchen preparing dinner, young girls who are not prepared to embody society's expectations of sensitivity and gentleness.One of my favourite Indian \"heroines\" is Jaya \u2013 the central character in Tara's book Trash, which tells the story of a group of ragpicker children living in Chennai. Enterprising, intelligent and brave, Jaya takes care of Velu, a young boy who arrives in the city having run away from his village. It is Jaya who finds Velu food, shows him how to work as a ragpicker, and protects him against adults looking to exploit him.\"Jaya showed me ways I could help other children and the environment\" says Muskan, a nine-year-old who goes to a school for underprivileged children in Mumbai. Neya, whose family live in a more comfortable suburb of Chennai, says: \"I'd like to have a friend like Jaya. She looks after Velu and understands how things work. I don't know anyone just like her, but my sister Maya says that I'm similar to her! I like that idea.\" These seemingly small adjustments in perception and expectation have the potential to bring about real change in the future. Literature may not have all the solutions, but a change in who tells the story, and from which point of view, can alter the way people think.Above all, the strength of literature lies in its subtlety \u2013 it doesn't need to preach, and I have never encountered any resistance to the unconventional characters who appear in our books, even from the most conservative of quarters. At the end of the day what we do is simple and hard to object to. We publish books with characters that demonstrate that people are not defined by whether they happen to be a boy or a girl. And for every child or parent who takes that message on board \u2013 whether consciously or unconsciously \u2013 we've won a small victory.", "tags": ["Teen books", "Children's books: 8-12 years", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "Postcard from India"},{"date": "2011-06-24T21:35:01Z", "country": "india", "content": "The first thing that happened was that an old man wearing a cap crowned with a peacock's claw, a hornbill's beak, a bearskin and a pair of knitting needles strolled up to the veranda of the government resthouse. \"You want snakes?\" he asked in broken Hindi, \"Come with me now.\"It was late afternoon. We had only just arrived from Assam, driving north for the last 100 miles up through increasingly thick jungle on a deteriorating dirt road, watching the last vestiges of modern India drop away. The garish advertising went first, the traffic next, then the plastic litter and jerry-built, stained concrete buildings. In their place came deep jungle and mountain rivers, interspersed with bamboo longhouses and people who stared. \"Are you ghosts?\" one man shouted. By the time we reached Leporiang village at the end of the track, we had slipped out of the 21st century and landed, hopeful and smiling, in something very different to the rest of the howling, honking mayhem that is modern India.The north-east of India has never made much of a contribution to the country's tourism phenomenon. There have been, for a start, plenty of political problems. Culturally more akin to Burma or China than Delhi or Mumbai, the region has been a minefield of independence movements and ethnic rivalries. And of these, Arunachal Pradesh is one of the most remote and inaccessible. It covers those jungled mountains that extend 350 miles eastwards from the Bhutanese border all the way to Burma. Claimed by China and largely ignored by Delhi, its steep-sided hills and rampaging rivers have barely been touched by the modern world. Our hosts, the Nyishi tribe, are a people whose knowledge of the lands beyond their jungles was, until half a century ago, largely based on slaving forays among the lowland Assamese. I had arrived as part of a scientific expedition, one that amateur naturalists can accompany, with the aim of collecting snake venom for anti-venom serum.This is not a frivolous or obscure project, as expedition leader Gerry Martin pointed out. \"There are about one million snake bites in India every year \u2013 50,000 of them fatal. Thousands of other people are incapacitated.\"The problem is that Indian snakes are not well studied. Scientists are just beginning to realise that venom is often location-specific and also that certain species may in fact be several distinct species. Our other expert, Rom Whitaker, American-born but brought up in India, is one of the greatest authorities on Indian snakes; he was quick to point out the limitations of current knowledge.\"Take some of the snakes we are looking for here: Medo's pit viper \u2013 we know almost nothing. It's probably a group of species. And Kaulback's pit viper \u2013 discovered in 1940 in south-west China and here in India only three years ago. It's a six-foot-long, highly venomous pit viper \u2013 that's about all we know.\" Rom's particular object of study is king cobras. \"They'll be here for sure.\"I'm no snake expert. In Africa once I was chased by a black mamba and the experience frightened the life out of me. I have very mixed feelings about this trip. But I am not going to have time to dwell on that. No sooner has the old man in the curious tribal hat mentioned his knowledge than we are on the march, heading out past the rice fields, following him down towards the river at the bottom of the valley.We cross the torrent on logs laid across boulders, then climb up to a large flat rock in a bracken-covered clearing. \"They live under there,\" says our informant. Immediately Gerry and his assistant Soham Mukherjee are on their knees shining torches into the cracks. \"Cobras,\" whispers Gerry, \"Big ones.\"A crowd of excited villagers is gathering. For them it is clearly a thrilling novelty that someone might want to catch a snake and not kill it. Rom is showing them identification photographs and they all pick out the monocled cobra as the species we are tackling. They are more interested, however, in another picture: Kaulback's pit viper. \"Oh, very bad!\" says one young man in English \u2013 a language as rare as anti-venom in these parts. \"We call him barta [meaning the deadliest of all snakes] and he is very bad. If you see one, you must kill it immediately or it will follow you home and kill someone in your longhouse.\"\"Where do you find them?\" asks Rom.\"In the jungle \u2013 mountain tops.\"Rom looks doubtful. \"People always think snakes are far away, but in my experience they are close, like this one.\"Gerry is calling him over to the boulder. He's placed a coat over one side of the crack, creating a dark, inviting escape hole. Now he's gently poking with a stick and waving the torch. \"He's coming. You ready, Rom?\"Rom jumps up next to the boulder, a long, hooked snake stick in hand. Some of the local children start running away, a few adults too. The snake, smooth, powerful and grey, shoots out of the hole over Rom's waiting snake hook. Rom grabs it by the tail and lifts it up with the hook. The cobra, furious, whips its body around hissing, but Rom skilfully controls it. Gerry has a canvas bag ready and the six-foot reptile is dropped inside. It immediately settles down, comforted by the darkness. \"They go into a kind of torpor,\" says Gerry. \"We'll keep him a week, then take venom before we release him.\"Walking back to the resthouse, it's getting dark and I'm close behind Rom at a tricky climb over a bamboo fence. Suddenly he stoops down and seizes a snake in the undergrowth and bags it. \"Himalayan keelback,\" he grins. The manouevre is completed so quickly I haven't even seen the creature.Later, this incident prompts me to ask if an untutored outsider can actually help much on an expedition like this.\"Honestly?\" he asks. \"Well, the money from paying guests helps a lot. This kind of expedition would not go ahead without it. And extra pairs of eyes and hands are genuinely useful.\"There is another benefit that I start to appreciate over the following days. Simply by showing an interest in wildlife, the visitor can help transform local attitudes. In Nyishi territory, the birds, for example, are hunted along with other creatures: the deer, the squirrels, the clouded leopard and bear. Tigers and elephants have all but disappeared, though a few old men tell us that they still exist in the most remote areas. Our interest triggers a response. Climbing up a steep hillside cleared for rice, one farmer is keen to show me a nest in his rain shelter, then points out the brilliant colours of a golden-throated barbet on a nearby tree and a pair of woodpeckers. The Nyishi here are hunters and they have an intimate and detailed knowledge of every living creature around them. It just never occurred to them that these might have any use other than food.That evening more people stop by the resthouse \u2013 as we are apparently the first Europeans ever to visit Leporiang, we are treated to a constant stream of curious visitors. They leaf through our books, stare at Gerry's laptop, ask questions: \"Why do you white people all look the same?\"One youth grins at our female expedition members, Janike and Hema, and announces, \"In my grandfather's time we would keep your women and thrash the men.\" We all laugh. I'm pretty sure that \"thrash\" is a euphemism for \"kill\".Almost every middle-aged man carries a sword, and some have bows and poison-tipped arrows in bearskin quivers. The youths scorn such things, preferring hair gel and sneakers. Women are less adorned and appear to do all the work: hoeing the impossibly steep hillsides, carrying vast loads of firewood and cooking our meals in the government resthouse \u2013 Leporiang's only accommodation for visitors. On Sunday they head for the church on the hill and throw themselves, babies on their backs, into frenetic bouts of mass hysteria and swooning. This is a culture that's diving headlong into its own unfathomable future.Among our visitors is one old man who saunters up the veranda and from a basket produces a dead snake \u2013 a gorgeous black, yellow and blue creature about five foot long. The effect on our experts is electric. Janike does a scale count \u2013 a diagnostic test in snakes \u2013 and declares the creature to be a Kaulback's. The old-timer has different ideas.\"It's not barta,\" he says, using the local name. \"It's taji. They are different.\"This is inexplicable, but our scientists do not discount it: knowledge of these snakes is so scarce that every morsel of local information is noted down.The next day we trek for miles, deep into the jungled mountains, to find where this snake lived. The trees are shaggy with orchids and ferns \u2013 entire ecosystems in themselves. The rivers are heaving with fish and tadpoles the size of my thumb. And the vegetation is laden with leeches \u2013 harmless, if unpleasant. We flick them away with increasing regularity. Inside a narrow valley, we locate the precise spot where the Kaulback's pit viper was killed, then we fan out and start searching. Three hours later we have not found any snakes and decide to return. Almost immediately, Soham spots movement in the undergrowth and pounces, triumphantly lifting up a small lizard. It's a long-legged creature with a gorgeous green and orange throat.\"Almost certainly a new species,\" declares Gerry. \"We found one last year in the next valley and no one has yet identified it.\" It seems a pretty good consolation for not finding the viper, but our guides are not satisfied. That night another old man in a Nyishi cap arrives to look at us. News of the strange foreigners who are interested in snakes has reached his longhouse some miles away. \"Search the river at night,\" he tells us. \"The overhanging trees are full of snakes.\"Naturally, a torch-lit search for venomous reptiles while waist-deep in a fast-flowing Himalayan river is a snake-hunter's idea of a good night out. After dinner we head off, myself rather reluctantly at the rear. We clamber down to the river below the village, Gerry and Rom leading the way. Not everyone, it has to be said, would enjoy such abnormal behaviour, but I am about to experience one of the highs that such determination can bring.The river is fast-flowing and 30 metres across. Soon the group is spread out, torches flaring off the trees and water. I find myself wading after Soham \u2013 he found the lizard, I reason, so maybe good luck is with him. We get separated from the others and come across two local men hunting fish with their hands. It's one of them who shouts the warning. \"Look up!\"On a branch 10 feet above the raging torrent is a coiled emerald-green serpent, its head the shape of a blunt arrowhead. We inch closer. The boulders are desperately slippery and I go down once, grateful I've packed my camera in a dry bag. The fisherman, eager to help, grabs the branch and shakes. The viper falls in the river among us. Soham coolly dives forward and grabs its tail, then gets it on his snake stick. We all shuffle and stumble towards a sandbank to get a closer look at this phenomenally beautiful creature, so perfect in every precisely defined scale and feature.Back at base camp we get further treats: Leporiang has only recently got electricity and there are a few bulbs in town, some of them on our veranda. The light has brought visitors: a huge pale moth, pressed to the door like a fallen moon, then another, as broad as my outstretched hand, with huge brown eyes on its furry wings.The days roll by and the end of the week arrives. It's time to inspect all our snakes \u2013 nine of them \u2013 to identify and photograph them. Unfortunately, I am going to miss the venom extraction as the necessary ice has not arrived from Assam, but we go through the identification. First is a green rat snake \u2013 non-venomous, so I have a go at handling it. Then come keelbacks \u2013 Himalayan and St John's \u2013 and two Medo's pit vipers, one a baby with its umbilical cord mark still visible (most vipers give birth rather than laying eggs). Next is a false cobra and a strange burrowing snake, more like a worm, really. Finally we come to the two cobras. Gerry prepares carefully. This is a big, fast animal and extremely venomous. As it drops out of the bag it's clearly angry, hissing loudly. Held by the tail, however, the snake rears up and spreads its hood.\"Monocled cobra,\" someone shouts confidently. But Rom is frowning. \"I'm not so sure. Let's do the scale counts.\"They place the snake's head in a clear plastic tube to prevent any mishaps and start the counts. Janike immediately announces that nothing fits the expected figures for a monocled cobra \u2013 a well-known Indian species. \"Check the tail-to-body ratio,\" she says.When the result is shouted out, Rom shakes his head. \"That's incredible. I mean, what is this thing?\"Further results only increase his consternation. The snake, meanwhile, is getting tired. They pop it back in the bag to rest. It feels like no one dares say it, so I do. \"New species of cobra?\"Gerry and Rom share a glance. \"Could be.\"\"It's a long process,\" explains Gerry. \"And the truth is we are probably looking at a local variation within the monocled species.\"That night, my last in Leporiang, I\u00a0wander out among the paddy fields, treading carefully on the narrow earthen bunds that separate the fields. Thousands of frogs are celebrating the arrival of the monsoons, and no doubt, so too are the vipers, the cobras and the keelbacks. On either side of me, I\u00a0can sense, rather than see, the jungle:\u00a0a dark shadow that rises up. I\u00a0had never expected that such a place could exist in modern India, a place so unknown and untouched. In this province the local government is planning dozens of new hydroelectric dams, and yet the contents of that astonishingly diverse jungle remain largely unknown and undiscovered. If paying guests can help scientific expeditions like ours to take place,\u00a0then the tourist dollar, I\u00a0reckon, will be well spent.Getting therePlanet Wildlife (0845 519 4948, planetwildlife.com) is running a 12-day trip to the Gujarat highlands in October led by Gerry Martin to see snakes, birds and Asiatic lions for \u00a31,648pp, excluding flights. Planet Wildlife can also arrange flights from London to Ahmedabad \u2013 ask for details. Emirates (emirates.com) has return flights via Dubai from \u00a3500 for travel in\u00a0October. Kevin travelled from York to\u00a0London with East Coast Trains (eastcoast.co.uk). Returns from \u00a320Further informationFor details of other Gerry Martin expeditions, see gerrymartin.in. To see king cobras in the UK, visit the King Cobra Sanctuary (07508 797010, kingcobrasanctuary.com) in Eastwood, near Nottingham. To get involved with reptile and amphibian conservation in the UK, contact Amphibian and Reptile Groups of the UK, arguk.org", "tags": ["India holidays", "Safaris", "Asia", "Wildlife holidays", "Travel", "Adventure travel", "Snakes"], "title": "A snake safari in India"},{"date": "2011-06-08T09:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The life of someone living with HIV in India today is better compared with a few years ago, thanks to improved healthcare, provision of antiretrovirals (ARVs) and treatment for infections.People are living longer and healthier lives, but stigma and discrimination remain an issue in communities and within healthcare facilities. It is definitely worse for female sex workers, men who have sex with men (MSM, men who do not identify as homosexual or gay and are almost always married), transgendered people and hijras living with HIV. There is a real need to address the attitudes of healthcare providers and the rampant stigma against these people. It particularly hampers their access to treatment.Many people with HIV live far from their nearest ARV centre. The distance, time and money required to access treatment, and the fact that the services are not tailored to meet the needs of the communities, are huge challenges. Also, there's virtually nothing in terms of psychosocial support for those living with HIV.As an MSM living with HIV, I face challenges to access healthcare and feel that I don't have the same opportunities or social status as others. There is a lack of work opportunities for MSM, transgendered people and hijras living with HIV, which makes them more vulnerable and sometimes leads them to into sex work. Lack of work makes them feel even more isolated and worthless which can create mental health issues.Meeting the goal of MDG6 is a big challenge in India, though we have made progress. India has successfully started developing strategies with active community involvement and participation. HIV incidence in some states has also started declining, according to the limited data we have.Political and donor commitment is crucial. The goal of the national programme to halt and reverse the epidemic is far from achieved.The contribution from the international community (donors, governments, foundations and civil society partners) has helped India in different ways to control the epidemic. At this crucial juncture, the international community needs to continue to support programmes for prevention as well as care and support for those living with HIV.The international community can also contribute to the Indian response through policy and advocacy, and constant monitoring to ensure that the human rights of those affected by the epidemic are being adequately protected.\u2022 Vijay Nair works with Alliance India at its Andhra Pradesh office. He is also the director of the Asia Pacific Coalition on MSM and president of Nipasha+, a national network of MSM, transgenders and hijras living with HIV and Aids", "tags": ["Global development", "India", "World news"], "title": "Living with HIV in India"},{"date": "2011-06-21T16:37:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Google's now infamous Street View camera cars only set to work on the streets of Bangalore last month, but already Indian authorities have ordered Google to suspend taking images because it has not secured the necessary security clearance.Google has said that after Bangalore, it plans to map all major cities in India \u2013 the 27th country in which the firm plans to launch Street View. As well as cars, Google had been using some tricycles with Street View's chunky camera equipment attached.Local police were concerned that Bangalore has several military institutions, and a statement given by Google to the AFP confirmed that Google had suspended the operation following a letter from Bangalore's police commissioner.Street View concerns in developing countries are significantly different to obstacles Google has hit recently in Germany and Switzerland, which were about privacy and data retention. Street View Brazil reportedly snapped dead bodies, while in India there are also sensitivities in the wake of the Mumbai attacks and from several bombings in Bangalore itself.", "tags": ["Digital media", "Media", "Google Street View", "Google", "Technology", "India", "World news"], "title": "Google Street View cameras halted in India"},{"date": "2011-05-17T10:17:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "One of the highlights of my job working at Tara Books - a small publisher in Chennai, India - is meeting children who drop by to browse through our books. Chatting to three sisters (aged eight, 10 and 12) last week, the conversation turned to their most beloved characters: Hermione Granger, Charlie (of Chocolate Factory fame), Dick King Smith's Sophie, Violet Baudelaire from A Series of Unfortunate Events, Darrell from the Mallory Towers books, and the cartoon characters Calvin and Hobbes.What struck me about this list (apart from its western bias) was how varied the characters were: a mixture of male and female, heroic and flawed, traditional and unconventional. Very uplifting, especially in light of a recent study showing that male 'central' characters significantly outnumber females in children's books.\"I hadn't really considered the sex of characters in the books that the girls read,\" their mother told me, \"but thinking about it now I guess that they look for their own role models, and are drawn naturally to characters with qualities they admire.\"Being part of a feminist publishing house in India, I've had the chance to think a lot about the role of gender in children's books, and its significance in this part of the world. Stories that appear in the media about Indian women are often very negative, with the themes of forced marriage, the killing of unwanted female children, and low levels of female literacy coming up again and again. These are all very real issues, but they're not the whole story.On a day-to-day basis it's the more mundane signs of inequality that I notice. Walk down the street and tens of motorbikes will whizz past you, almost always driven by men, and more often than not with a woman perched side-saddle on the back. Eat in a local restaurant and you would be hard-pushed to find a female waiter, but go eat in someone's home, and it's a different story. It would be pretty unusual for the lady of the house to sit down and eat with you. She'll be in the kitchen putting the final touches to the next dish, or busy serving the food.And yet, the picture is even more complicated than this. This is a society in which women ARE visible in the workforce \u2013 from construction workers to engineers, doctors to street-side coconut sellers. However, in the words of my male colleague: \"Very, very few Indian men help with household chores. It is just not seen as their role, and this doesn't change if the wife has a job outside the home.\" This is exactly why it's so important that books show different possibilities to children growing up in India: female autorickshaw drivers, fathers who happily spend time in the kitchen preparing dinner, young girls who are not prepared to embody society's expectations of sensitivity and gentleness.One of my favourite Indian \"heroines\" is Jaya \u2013 the central character in Tara's book Trash, which tells the story of a group of ragpicker children living in Chennai. Enterprising, intelligent and brave, Jaya takes care of Velu, a young boy who arrives in the city having run away from his village. It is Jaya who finds Velu food, shows him how to work as a ragpicker, and protects him against adults looking to exploit him.\"Jaya showed me ways I could help other children and the environment\" says Muskan, a nine-year-old who goes to a school for underprivileged children in Mumbai. Neya, whose family live in a more comfortable suburb of Chennai, says: \"I'd like to have a friend like Jaya. She looks after Velu and understands how things work. I don't know anyone just like her, but my sister Maya says that I'm similar to her! I like that idea.\" These seemingly small adjustments in perception and expectation have the potential to bring about real change in the future. Literature may not have all the solutions, but a change in who tells the story, and from which point of view, can alter the way people think.Above all, the strength of literature lies in its subtlety \u2013 it doesn't need to preach, and I have never encountered any resistance to the unconventional characters who appear in our books, even from the most conservative of quarters. At the end of the day what we do is simple and hard to object to. We publish books with characters that demonstrate that people are not defined by whether they happen to be a boy or a girl. And for every child or parent who takes that message on board \u2013 whether consciously or unconsciously \u2013 we've won a small victory.", "tags": ["Teen books", "Children's books: 8-12 years", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "Postcard from India"},{"date": "2011-06-24T21:35:01Z", "country": "india", "content": "The first thing that happened was that an old man wearing a cap crowned with a peacock's claw, a hornbill's beak, a bearskin and a pair of knitting needles strolled up to the veranda of the government resthouse. \"You want snakes?\" he asked in broken Hindi, \"Come with me now.\"It was late afternoon. We had only just arrived from Assam, driving north for the last 100 miles up through increasingly thick jungle on a deteriorating dirt road, watching the last vestiges of modern India drop away. The garish advertising went first, the traffic next, then the plastic litter and jerry-built, stained concrete buildings. In their place came deep jungle and mountain rivers, interspersed with bamboo longhouses and people who stared. \"Are you ghosts?\" one man shouted. By the time we reached Leporiang village at the end of the track, we had slipped out of the 21st century and landed, hopeful and smiling, in something very different to the rest of the howling, honking mayhem that is modern India.The north-east of India has never made much of a contribution to the country's tourism phenomenon. There have been, for a start, plenty of political problems. Culturally more akin to Burma or China than Delhi or Mumbai, the region has been a minefield of independence movements and ethnic rivalries. And of these, Arunachal Pradesh is one of the most remote and inaccessible. It covers those jungled mountains that extend 350 miles eastwards from the Bhutanese border all the way to Burma. Claimed by China and largely ignored by Delhi, its steep-sided hills and rampaging rivers have barely been touched by the modern world. Our hosts, the Nyishi tribe, are a people whose knowledge of the lands beyond their jungles was, until half a century ago, largely based on slaving forays among the lowland Assamese. I had arrived as part of a scientific expedition, one that amateur naturalists can accompany, with the aim of collecting snake venom for anti-venom serum.This is not a frivolous or obscure project, as expedition leader Gerry Martin pointed out. \"There are about one million snake bites in India every year \u2013 50,000 of them fatal. Thousands of other people are incapacitated.\"The problem is that Indian snakes are not well studied. Scientists are just beginning to realise that venom is often location-specific and also that certain species may in fact be several distinct species. Our other expert, Rom Whitaker, American-born but brought up in India, is one of the greatest authorities on Indian snakes; he was quick to point out the limitations of current knowledge.\"Take some of the snakes we are looking for here: Medo's pit viper \u2013 we know almost nothing. It's probably a group of species. And Kaulback's pit viper \u2013 discovered in 1940 in south-west China and here in India only three years ago. It's a six-foot-long, highly venomous pit viper \u2013 that's about all we know.\" Rom's particular object of study is king cobras. \"They'll be here for sure.\"I'm no snake expert. In Africa once I was chased by a black mamba and the experience frightened the life out of me. I have very mixed feelings about this trip. But I am not going to have time to dwell on that. No sooner has the old man in the curious tribal hat mentioned his knowledge than we are on the march, heading out past the rice fields, following him down towards the river at the bottom of the valley.We cross the torrent on logs laid across boulders, then climb up to a large flat rock in a bracken-covered clearing. \"They live under there,\" says our informant. Immediately Gerry and his assistant Soham Mukherjee are on their knees shining torches into the cracks. \"Cobras,\" whispers Gerry, \"Big ones.\"A crowd of excited villagers is gathering. For them it is clearly a thrilling novelty that someone might want to catch a snake and not kill it. Rom is showing them identification photographs and they all pick out the monocled cobra as the species we are tackling. They are more interested, however, in another picture: Kaulback's pit viper. \"Oh, very bad!\" says one young man in English \u2013 a language as rare as anti-venom in these parts. \"We call him barta [meaning the deadliest of all snakes] and he is very bad. If you see one, you must kill it immediately or it will follow you home and kill someone in your longhouse.\"\"Where do you find them?\" asks Rom.\"In the jungle \u2013 mountain tops.\"Rom looks doubtful. \"People always think snakes are far away, but in my experience they are close, like this one.\"Gerry is calling him over to the boulder. He's placed a coat over one side of the crack, creating a dark, inviting escape hole. Now he's gently poking with a stick and waving the torch. \"He's coming. You ready, Rom?\"Rom jumps up next to the boulder, a long, hooked snake stick in hand. Some of the local children start running away, a few adults too. The snake, smooth, powerful and grey, shoots out of the hole over Rom's waiting snake hook. Rom grabs it by the tail and lifts it up with the hook. The cobra, furious, whips its body around hissing, but Rom skilfully controls it. Gerry has a canvas bag ready and the six-foot reptile is dropped inside. It immediately settles down, comforted by the darkness. \"They go into a kind of torpor,\" says Gerry. \"We'll keep him a week, then take venom before we release him.\"Walking back to the resthouse, it's getting dark and I'm close behind Rom at a tricky climb over a bamboo fence. Suddenly he stoops down and seizes a snake in the undergrowth and bags it. \"Himalayan keelback,\" he grins. The manouevre is completed so quickly I haven't even seen the creature.Later, this incident prompts me to ask if an untutored outsider can actually help much on an expedition like this.\"Honestly?\" he asks. \"Well, the money from paying guests helps a lot. This kind of expedition would not go ahead without it. And extra pairs of eyes and hands are genuinely useful.\"There is another benefit that I start to appreciate over the following days. Simply by showing an interest in wildlife, the visitor can help transform local attitudes. In Nyishi territory, the birds, for example, are hunted along with other creatures: the deer, the squirrels, the clouded leopard and bear. Tigers and elephants have all but disappeared, though a few old men tell us that they still exist in the most remote areas. Our interest triggers a response. Climbing up a steep hillside cleared for rice, one farmer is keen to show me a nest in his rain shelter, then points out the brilliant colours of a golden-throated barbet on a nearby tree and a pair of woodpeckers. The Nyishi here are hunters and they have an intimate and detailed knowledge of every living creature around them. It just never occurred to them that these might have any use other than food.That evening more people stop by the resthouse \u2013 as we are apparently the first Europeans ever to visit Leporiang, we are treated to a constant stream of curious visitors. They leaf through our books, stare at Gerry's laptop, ask questions: \"Why do you white people all look the same?\"One youth grins at our female expedition members, Janike and Hema, and announces, \"In my grandfather's time we would keep your women and thrash the men.\" We all laugh. I'm pretty sure that \"thrash\" is a euphemism for \"kill\".Almost every middle-aged man carries a sword, and some have bows and poison-tipped arrows in bearskin quivers. The youths scorn such things, preferring hair gel and sneakers. Women are less adorned and appear to do all the work: hoeing the impossibly steep hillsides, carrying vast loads of firewood and cooking our meals in the government resthouse \u2013 Leporiang's only accommodation for visitors. On Sunday they head for the church on the hill and throw themselves, babies on their backs, into frenetic bouts of mass hysteria and swooning. This is a culture that's diving headlong into its own unfathomable future.Among our visitors is one old man who saunters up the veranda and from a basket produces a dead snake \u2013 a gorgeous black, yellow and blue creature about five foot long. The effect on our experts is electric. Janike does a scale count \u2013 a diagnostic test in snakes \u2013 and declares the creature to be a Kaulback's. The old-timer has different ideas.\"It's not barta,\" he says, using the local name. \"It's taji. They are different.\"This is inexplicable, but our scientists do not discount it: knowledge of these snakes is so scarce that every morsel of local information is noted down.The next day we trek for miles, deep into the jungled mountains, to find where this snake lived. The trees are shaggy with orchids and ferns \u2013 entire ecosystems in themselves. The rivers are heaving with fish and tadpoles the size of my thumb. And the vegetation is laden with leeches \u2013 harmless, if unpleasant. We flick them away with increasing regularity. Inside a narrow valley, we locate the precise spot where the Kaulback's pit viper was killed, then we fan out and start searching. Three hours later we have not found any snakes and decide to return. Almost immediately, Soham spots movement in the undergrowth and pounces, triumphantly lifting up a small lizard. It's a long-legged creature with a gorgeous green and orange throat.\"Almost certainly a new species,\" declares Gerry. \"We found one last year in the next valley and no one has yet identified it.\" It seems a pretty good consolation for not finding the viper, but our guides are not satisfied. That night another old man in a Nyishi cap arrives to look at us. News of the strange foreigners who are interested in snakes has reached his longhouse some miles away. \"Search the river at night,\" he tells us. \"The overhanging trees are full of snakes.\"Naturally, a torch-lit search for venomous reptiles while waist-deep in a fast-flowing Himalayan river is a snake-hunter's idea of a good night out. After dinner we head off, myself rather reluctantly at the rear. We clamber down to the river below the village, Gerry and Rom leading the way. Not everyone, it has to be said, would enjoy such abnormal behaviour, but I am about to experience one of the highs that such determination can bring.The river is fast-flowing and 30 metres across. Soon the group is spread out, torches flaring off the trees and water. I find myself wading after Soham \u2013 he found the lizard, I reason, so maybe good luck is with him. We get separated from the others and come across two local men hunting fish with their hands. It's one of them who shouts the warning. \"Look up!\"On a branch 10 feet above the raging torrent is a coiled emerald-green serpent, its head the shape of a blunt arrowhead. We inch closer. The boulders are desperately slippery and I go down once, grateful I've packed my camera in a dry bag. The fisherman, eager to help, grabs the branch and shakes. The viper falls in the river among us. Soham coolly dives forward and grabs its tail, then gets it on his snake stick. We all shuffle and stumble towards a sandbank to get a closer look at this phenomenally beautiful creature, so perfect in every precisely defined scale and feature.Back at base camp we get further treats: Leporiang has only recently got electricity and there are a few bulbs in town, some of them on our veranda. The light has brought visitors: a huge pale moth, pressed to the door like a fallen moon, then another, as broad as my outstretched hand, with huge brown eyes on its furry wings.The days roll by and the end of the week arrives. It's time to inspect all our snakes \u2013 nine of them \u2013 to identify and photograph them. Unfortunately, I am going to miss the venom extraction as the necessary ice has not arrived from Assam, but we go through the identification. First is a green rat snake \u2013 non-venomous, so I have a go at handling it. Then come keelbacks \u2013 Himalayan and St John's \u2013 and two Medo's pit vipers, one a baby with its umbilical cord mark still visible (most vipers give birth rather than laying eggs). Next is a false cobra and a strange burrowing snake, more like a worm, really. Finally we come to the two cobras. Gerry prepares carefully. This is a big, fast animal and extremely venomous. As it drops out of the bag it's clearly angry, hissing loudly. Held by the tail, however, the snake rears up and spreads its hood.\"Monocled cobra,\" someone shouts confidently. But Rom is frowning. \"I'm not so sure. Let's do the scale counts.\"They place the snake's head in a clear plastic tube to prevent any mishaps and start the counts. Janike immediately announces that nothing fits the expected figures for a monocled cobra \u2013 a well-known Indian species. \"Check the tail-to-body ratio,\" she says.When the result is shouted out, Rom shakes his head. \"That's incredible. I mean, what is this thing?\"Further results only increase his consternation. The snake, meanwhile, is getting tired. They pop it back in the bag to rest. It feels like no one dares say it, so I do. \"New species of cobra?\"Gerry and Rom share a glance. \"Could be.\"\"It's a long process,\" explains Gerry. \"And the truth is we are probably looking at a local variation within the monocled species.\"That night, my last in Leporiang, I\u00a0wander out among the paddy fields, treading carefully on the narrow earthen bunds that separate the fields. Thousands of frogs are celebrating the arrival of the monsoons, and no doubt, so too are the vipers, the cobras and the keelbacks. On either side of me, I\u00a0can sense, rather than see, the jungle:\u00a0a dark shadow that rises up. I\u00a0had never expected that such a place could exist in modern India, a place so unknown and untouched. In this province the local government is planning dozens of new hydroelectric dams, and yet the contents of that astonishingly diverse jungle remain largely unknown and undiscovered. If paying guests can help scientific expeditions like ours to take place,\u00a0then the tourist dollar, I\u00a0reckon, will be well spent.Getting therePlanet Wildlife (0845 519 4948, planetwildlife.com) is running a 12-day trip to the Gujarat highlands in October led by Gerry Martin to see snakes, birds and Asiatic lions for \u00a31,648pp, excluding flights. Planet Wildlife can also arrange flights from London to Ahmedabad \u2013 ask for details. Emirates (emirates.com) has return flights via Dubai from \u00a3500 for travel in\u00a0October. Kevin travelled from York to\u00a0London with East Coast Trains (eastcoast.co.uk). Returns from \u00a320Further informationFor details of other Gerry Martin expeditions, see gerrymartin.in. To see king cobras in the UK, visit the King Cobra Sanctuary (07508 797010, kingcobrasanctuary.com) in Eastwood, near Nottingham. To get involved with reptile and amphibian conservation in the UK, contact Amphibian and Reptile Groups of the UK, arguk.org", "tags": ["India holidays", "Safaris", "Asia", "Wildlife holidays", "Travel", "Adventure travel", "Snakes"], "title": "A snake safari in India"},{"date": "2011-06-08T09:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The life of someone living with HIV in India today is better compared with a few years ago, thanks to improved healthcare, provision of antiretrovirals (ARVs) and treatment for infections.People are living longer and healthier lives, but stigma and discrimination remain an issue in communities and within healthcare facilities. It is definitely worse for female sex workers, men who have sex with men (MSM, men who do not identify as homosexual or gay and are almost always married), transgendered people and hijras living with HIV. There is a real need to address the attitudes of healthcare providers and the rampant stigma against these people. It particularly hampers their access to treatment.Many people with HIV live far from their nearest ARV centre. The distance, time and money required to access treatment, and the fact that the services are not tailored to meet the needs of the communities, are huge challenges. Also, there's virtually nothing in terms of psychosocial support for those living with HIV.As an MSM living with HIV, I face challenges to access healthcare and feel that I don't have the same opportunities or social status as others. There is a lack of work opportunities for MSM, transgendered people and hijras living with HIV, which makes them more vulnerable and sometimes leads them to into sex work. Lack of work makes them feel even more isolated and worthless which can create mental health issues.Meeting the goal of MDG6 is a big challenge in India, though we have made progress. India has successfully started developing strategies with active community involvement and participation. HIV incidence in some states has also started declining, according to the limited data we have.Political and donor commitment is crucial. The goal of the national programme to halt and reverse the epidemic is far from achieved.The contribution from the international community (donors, governments, foundations and civil society partners) has helped India in different ways to control the epidemic. At this crucial juncture, the international community needs to continue to support programmes for prevention as well as care and support for those living with HIV.The international community can also contribute to the Indian response through policy and advocacy, and constant monitoring to ensure that the human rights of those affected by the epidemic are being adequately protected.\u2022 Vijay Nair works with Alliance India at its Andhra Pradesh office. He is also the director of the Asia Pacific Coalition on MSM and president of Nipasha+, a national network of MSM, transgenders and hijras living with HIV and Aids", "tags": ["Global development", "India", "World news"], "title": "Living with HIV in India"},{"date": "2011-06-21T16:37:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Google's now infamous Street View camera cars only set to work on the streets of Bangalore last month, but already Indian authorities have ordered Google to suspend taking images because it has not secured the necessary security clearance.Google has said that after Bangalore, it plans to map all major cities in India \u2013 the 27th country in which the firm plans to launch Street View. As well as cars, Google had been using some tricycles with Street View's chunky camera equipment attached.Local police were concerned that Bangalore has several military institutions, and a statement given by Google to the AFP confirmed that Google had suspended the operation following a letter from Bangalore's police commissioner.Street View concerns in developing countries are significantly different to obstacles Google has hit recently in Germany and Switzerland, which were about privacy and data retention. Street View Brazil reportedly snapped dead bodies, while in India there are also sensitivities in the wake of the Mumbai attacks and from several bombings in Bangalore itself.", "tags": ["Digital media", "Media", "Google Street View", "Google", "Technology", "India", "World news"], "title": "Google Street View cameras halted in India"},{"date": "2011-06-14T21:00:01Z", "country": "india", "content": "Britain should continue to give aid to India until 2015 to ensure the country meets the millennium development goals (MDGs), a UK cross-party group of MPs recommends.In a report published by the House of Commons international development committee on Tuesday evening, MPs said that despite India's huge economic growth over the last 25 years, average per capita income is one-twentieth of that in the UK, and more than 400 million people still live in poverty. According to the UN MDG monitor, more than a third of India's population live on less than $1.25 a day.The committee called for future aid to be targeted to improve sanitation, tackle malnutrition and challenge social exclusion. But it also recommended that after 2015 the UK's aid relationship with India should \"fundamentally change\", suggesting the Department for International Development (DfID) begins drawing up an exit strategy.Aid to India has proved a contentious issue. Andrew Mitchell, the international development secretary, has defended his decision to give \u00a3280m a year over the next four years to a country that is the 11th largest economy in the world against critics who view its economic development and its billion-dollar space programme as evidence it does not need aid. Mitchell has already said aid to India until 2015 will be targeted on the poorest, with half the money spent on pro-poor private sector development.The committee said it had examined the arguments for and against aid. Its chairman, Malcolm Bruce, said: \"The test of whether the UK should continue to give aid to India is whether that aid makes a distinct, value-added contribution to poverty reduction which would not otherwise happen. We believe most UK aid does this.\"He added: \"The Indian government has primary responsibility for poverty reduction. It has put up taxes and increased its social spending, but the poverty there is on such an extreme scale that it will take many years for India to achieve internationally agreed millennium development goals. Poverty levels remain high in some parts of India, and these are states where UK funding is targeted\"The committee found that the Indian government invested \"significant funds\" in social programmes for health, education and employment.The report noted that India's space programme was often used as an example to illustrate the country's wealth, but MPs insisted the programme also delivered socio-economic benefits, such as mapping weather patterns and the extent of floods.The committee is calling on DfID to redirect resources for India from health to sanitation and recommended the department's nutrition programme becomes a central plank of its funding to tackle malnutrition.The committee also wants the department to do more to challenge discrimination against certain castes, ethnic or religious groups and people living with disabilities.Robin Greenwood, Christian Aid's head of Asia, welcomed MPs focus on discrimination. \"Christian Aid's experience in India is that the exclusions from society of whole groups - Dalits, tribal people, religious minorities and also women - are the most important causes of continuing extreme poverty in India,\" he said.A report from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), also published on Tuesday, found that poverty in India has fallen faster than in many other emerging economies over the last 10 years, although it said the government needed to focus on more pro-poor policies, including strengthening the welfare system and improving access to healthcare. At 1% of GDP, India's health spending is among the lowest in the world.The OECD report highlighted India's high rates of school drop-outs, despite education being a government priority, and called for better regulation and funding, more incentives for teachers, and more student loans for higher education.", "tags": ["Aid", "Global development", "India", "World news"], "title": "British MPs back aid to India | Liz Ford"},{"date": "2011-05-17T10:17:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "One of the highlights of my job working at Tara Books - a small publisher in Chennai, India - is meeting children who drop by to browse through our books. Chatting to three sisters (aged eight, 10 and 12) last week, the conversation turned to their most beloved characters: Hermione Granger, Charlie (of Chocolate Factory fame), Dick King Smith's Sophie, Violet Baudelaire from A Series of Unfortunate Events, Darrell from the Mallory Towers books, and the cartoon characters Calvin and Hobbes.What struck me about this list (apart from its western bias) was how varied the characters were: a mixture of male and female, heroic and flawed, traditional and unconventional. Very uplifting, especially in light of a recent study showing that male 'central' characters significantly outnumber females in children's books.\"I hadn't really considered the sex of characters in the books that the girls read,\" their mother told me, \"but thinking about it now I guess that they look for their own role models, and are drawn naturally to characters with qualities they admire.\"Being part of a feminist publishing house in India, I've had the chance to think a lot about the role of gender in children's books, and its significance in this part of the world. Stories that appear in the media about Indian women are often very negative, with the themes of forced marriage, the killing of unwanted female children, and low levels of female literacy coming up again and again. These are all very real issues, but they're not the whole story.On a day-to-day basis it's the more mundane signs of inequality that I notice. Walk down the street and tens of motorbikes will whizz past you, almost always driven by men, and more often than not with a woman perched side-saddle on the back. Eat in a local restaurant and you would be hard-pushed to find a female waiter, but go eat in someone's home, and it's a different story. It would be pretty unusual for the lady of the house to sit down and eat with you. She'll be in the kitchen putting the final touches to the next dish, or busy serving the food.And yet, the picture is even more complicated than this. This is a society in which women ARE visible in the workforce \u2013 from construction workers to engineers, doctors to street-side coconut sellers. However, in the words of my male colleague: \"Very, very few Indian men help with household chores. It is just not seen as their role, and this doesn't change if the wife has a job outside the home.\" This is exactly why it's so important that books show different possibilities to children growing up in India: female autorickshaw drivers, fathers who happily spend time in the kitchen preparing dinner, young girls who are not prepared to embody society's expectations of sensitivity and gentleness.One of my favourite Indian \"heroines\" is Jaya \u2013 the central character in Tara's book Trash, which tells the story of a group of ragpicker children living in Chennai. Enterprising, intelligent and brave, Jaya takes care of Velu, a young boy who arrives in the city having run away from his village. It is Jaya who finds Velu food, shows him how to work as a ragpicker, and protects him against adults looking to exploit him.\"Jaya showed me ways I could help other children and the environment\" says Muskan, a nine-year-old who goes to a school for underprivileged children in Mumbai. Neya, whose family live in a more comfortable suburb of Chennai, says: \"I'd like to have a friend like Jaya. She looks after Velu and understands how things work. I don't know anyone just like her, but my sister Maya says that I'm similar to her! I like that idea.\" These seemingly small adjustments in perception and expectation have the potential to bring about real change in the future. Literature may not have all the solutions, but a change in who tells the story, and from which point of view, can alter the way people think.Above all, the strength of literature lies in its subtlety \u2013 it doesn't need to preach, and I have never encountered any resistance to the unconventional characters who appear in our books, even from the most conservative of quarters. At the end of the day what we do is simple and hard to object to. We publish books with characters that demonstrate that people are not defined by whether they happen to be a boy or a girl. And for every child or parent who takes that message on board \u2013 whether consciously or unconsciously \u2013 we've won a small victory.", "tags": ["Teen books", "Children's books: 8-12 years", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "Postcard from India"},{"date": "2011-06-24T21:35:01Z", "country": "india", "content": "The first thing that happened was that an old man wearing a cap crowned with a peacock's claw, a hornbill's beak, a bearskin and a pair of knitting needles strolled up to the veranda of the government resthouse. \"You want snakes?\" he asked in broken Hindi, \"Come with me now.\"It was late afternoon. We had only just arrived from Assam, driving north for the last 100 miles up through increasingly thick jungle on a deteriorating dirt road, watching the last vestiges of modern India drop away. The garish advertising went first, the traffic next, then the plastic litter and jerry-built, stained concrete buildings. In their place came deep jungle and mountain rivers, interspersed with bamboo longhouses and people who stared. \"Are you ghosts?\" one man shouted. By the time we reached Leporiang village at the end of the track, we had slipped out of the 21st century and landed, hopeful and smiling, in something very different to the rest of the howling, honking mayhem that is modern India.The north-east of India has never made much of a contribution to the country's tourism phenomenon. There have been, for a start, plenty of political problems. Culturally more akin to Burma or China than Delhi or Mumbai, the region has been a minefield of independence movements and ethnic rivalries. And of these, Arunachal Pradesh is one of the most remote and inaccessible. It covers those jungled mountains that extend 350 miles eastwards from the Bhutanese border all the way to Burma. Claimed by China and largely ignored by Delhi, its steep-sided hills and rampaging rivers have barely been touched by the modern world. Our hosts, the Nyishi tribe, are a people whose knowledge of the lands beyond their jungles was, until half a century ago, largely based on slaving forays among the lowland Assamese. I had arrived as part of a scientific expedition, one that amateur naturalists can accompany, with the aim of collecting snake venom for anti-venom serum.This is not a frivolous or obscure project, as expedition leader Gerry Martin pointed out. \"There are about one million snake bites in India every year \u2013 50,000 of them fatal. Thousands of other people are incapacitated.\"The problem is that Indian snakes are not well studied. Scientists are just beginning to realise that venom is often location-specific and also that certain species may in fact be several distinct species. Our other expert, Rom Whitaker, American-born but brought up in India, is one of the greatest authorities on Indian snakes; he was quick to point out the limitations of current knowledge.\"Take some of the snakes we are looking for here: Medo's pit viper \u2013 we know almost nothing. It's probably a group of species. And Kaulback's pit viper \u2013 discovered in 1940 in south-west China and here in India only three years ago. It's a six-foot-long, highly venomous pit viper \u2013 that's about all we know.\" Rom's particular object of study is king cobras. \"They'll be here for sure.\"I'm no snake expert. In Africa once I was chased by a black mamba and the experience frightened the life out of me. I have very mixed feelings about this trip. But I am not going to have time to dwell on that. No sooner has the old man in the curious tribal hat mentioned his knowledge than we are on the march, heading out past the rice fields, following him down towards the river at the bottom of the valley.We cross the torrent on logs laid across boulders, then climb up to a large flat rock in a bracken-covered clearing. \"They live under there,\" says our informant. Immediately Gerry and his assistant Soham Mukherjee are on their knees shining torches into the cracks. \"Cobras,\" whispers Gerry, \"Big ones.\"A crowd of excited villagers is gathering. For them it is clearly a thrilling novelty that someone might want to catch a snake and not kill it. Rom is showing them identification photographs and they all pick out the monocled cobra as the species we are tackling. They are more interested, however, in another picture: Kaulback's pit viper. \"Oh, very bad!\" says one young man in English \u2013 a language as rare as anti-venom in these parts. \"We call him barta [meaning the deadliest of all snakes] and he is very bad. If you see one, you must kill it immediately or it will follow you home and kill someone in your longhouse.\"\"Where do you find them?\" asks Rom.\"In the jungle \u2013 mountain tops.\"Rom looks doubtful. \"People always think snakes are far away, but in my experience they are close, like this one.\"Gerry is calling him over to the boulder. He's placed a coat over one side of the crack, creating a dark, inviting escape hole. Now he's gently poking with a stick and waving the torch. \"He's coming. You ready, Rom?\"Rom jumps up next to the boulder, a long, hooked snake stick in hand. Some of the local children start running away, a few adults too. The snake, smooth, powerful and grey, shoots out of the hole over Rom's waiting snake hook. Rom grabs it by the tail and lifts it up with the hook. The cobra, furious, whips its body around hissing, but Rom skilfully controls it. Gerry has a canvas bag ready and the six-foot reptile is dropped inside. It immediately settles down, comforted by the darkness. \"They go into a kind of torpor,\" says Gerry. \"We'll keep him a week, then take venom before we release him.\"Walking back to the resthouse, it's getting dark and I'm close behind Rom at a tricky climb over a bamboo fence. Suddenly he stoops down and seizes a snake in the undergrowth and bags it. \"Himalayan keelback,\" he grins. The manouevre is completed so quickly I haven't even seen the creature.Later, this incident prompts me to ask if an untutored outsider can actually help much on an expedition like this.\"Honestly?\" he asks. \"Well, the money from paying guests helps a lot. This kind of expedition would not go ahead without it. And extra pairs of eyes and hands are genuinely useful.\"There is another benefit that I start to appreciate over the following days. Simply by showing an interest in wildlife, the visitor can help transform local attitudes. In Nyishi territory, the birds, for example, are hunted along with other creatures: the deer, the squirrels, the clouded leopard and bear. Tigers and elephants have all but disappeared, though a few old men tell us that they still exist in the most remote areas. Our interest triggers a response. Climbing up a steep hillside cleared for rice, one farmer is keen to show me a nest in his rain shelter, then points out the brilliant colours of a golden-throated barbet on a nearby tree and a pair of woodpeckers. The Nyishi here are hunters and they have an intimate and detailed knowledge of every living creature around them. It just never occurred to them that these might have any use other than food.That evening more people stop by the resthouse \u2013 as we are apparently the first Europeans ever to visit Leporiang, we are treated to a constant stream of curious visitors. They leaf through our books, stare at Gerry's laptop, ask questions: \"Why do you white people all look the same?\"One youth grins at our female expedition members, Janike and Hema, and announces, \"In my grandfather's time we would keep your women and thrash the men.\" We all laugh. I'm pretty sure that \"thrash\" is a euphemism for \"kill\".Almost every middle-aged man carries a sword, and some have bows and poison-tipped arrows in bearskin quivers. The youths scorn such things, preferring hair gel and sneakers. Women are less adorned and appear to do all the work: hoeing the impossibly steep hillsides, carrying vast loads of firewood and cooking our meals in the government resthouse \u2013 Leporiang's only accommodation for visitors. On Sunday they head for the church on the hill and throw themselves, babies on their backs, into frenetic bouts of mass hysteria and swooning. This is a culture that's diving headlong into its own unfathomable future.Among our visitors is one old man who saunters up the veranda and from a basket produces a dead snake \u2013 a gorgeous black, yellow and blue creature about five foot long. The effect on our experts is electric. Janike does a scale count \u2013 a diagnostic test in snakes \u2013 and declares the creature to be a Kaulback's. The old-timer has different ideas.\"It's not barta,\" he says, using the local name. \"It's taji. They are different.\"This is inexplicable, but our scientists do not discount it: knowledge of these snakes is so scarce that every morsel of local information is noted down.The next day we trek for miles, deep into the jungled mountains, to find where this snake lived. The trees are shaggy with orchids and ferns \u2013 entire ecosystems in themselves. The rivers are heaving with fish and tadpoles the size of my thumb. And the vegetation is laden with leeches \u2013 harmless, if unpleasant. We flick them away with increasing regularity. Inside a narrow valley, we locate the precise spot where the Kaulback's pit viper was killed, then we fan out and start searching. Three hours later we have not found any snakes and decide to return. Almost immediately, Soham spots movement in the undergrowth and pounces, triumphantly lifting up a small lizard. It's a long-legged creature with a gorgeous green and orange throat.\"Almost certainly a new species,\" declares Gerry. \"We found one last year in the next valley and no one has yet identified it.\" It seems a pretty good consolation for not finding the viper, but our guides are not satisfied. That night another old man in a Nyishi cap arrives to look at us. News of the strange foreigners who are interested in snakes has reached his longhouse some miles away. \"Search the river at night,\" he tells us. \"The overhanging trees are full of snakes.\"Naturally, a torch-lit search for venomous reptiles while waist-deep in a fast-flowing Himalayan river is a snake-hunter's idea of a good night out. After dinner we head off, myself rather reluctantly at the rear. We clamber down to the river below the village, Gerry and Rom leading the way. Not everyone, it has to be said, would enjoy such abnormal behaviour, but I am about to experience one of the highs that such determination can bring.The river is fast-flowing and 30 metres across. Soon the group is spread out, torches flaring off the trees and water. I find myself wading after Soham \u2013 he found the lizard, I reason, so maybe good luck is with him. We get separated from the others and come across two local men hunting fish with their hands. It's one of them who shouts the warning. \"Look up!\"On a branch 10 feet above the raging torrent is a coiled emerald-green serpent, its head the shape of a blunt arrowhead. We inch closer. The boulders are desperately slippery and I go down once, grateful I've packed my camera in a dry bag. The fisherman, eager to help, grabs the branch and shakes. The viper falls in the river among us. Soham coolly dives forward and grabs its tail, then gets it on his snake stick. We all shuffle and stumble towards a sandbank to get a closer look at this phenomenally beautiful creature, so perfect in every precisely defined scale and feature.Back at base camp we get further treats: Leporiang has only recently got electricity and there are a few bulbs in town, some of them on our veranda. The light has brought visitors: a huge pale moth, pressed to the door like a fallen moon, then another, as broad as my outstretched hand, with huge brown eyes on its furry wings.The days roll by and the end of the week arrives. It's time to inspect all our snakes \u2013 nine of them \u2013 to identify and photograph them. Unfortunately, I am going to miss the venom extraction as the necessary ice has not arrived from Assam, but we go through the identification. First is a green rat snake \u2013 non-venomous, so I have a go at handling it. Then come keelbacks \u2013 Himalayan and St John's \u2013 and two Medo's pit vipers, one a baby with its umbilical cord mark still visible (most vipers give birth rather than laying eggs). Next is a false cobra and a strange burrowing snake, more like a worm, really. Finally we come to the two cobras. Gerry prepares carefully. This is a big, fast animal and extremely venomous. As it drops out of the bag it's clearly angry, hissing loudly. Held by the tail, however, the snake rears up and spreads its hood.\"Monocled cobra,\" someone shouts confidently. But Rom is frowning. \"I'm not so sure. Let's do the scale counts.\"They place the snake's head in a clear plastic tube to prevent any mishaps and start the counts. Janike immediately announces that nothing fits the expected figures for a monocled cobra \u2013 a well-known Indian species. \"Check the tail-to-body ratio,\" she says.When the result is shouted out, Rom shakes his head. \"That's incredible. I mean, what is this thing?\"Further results only increase his consternation. The snake, meanwhile, is getting tired. They pop it back in the bag to rest. It feels like no one dares say it, so I do. \"New species of cobra?\"Gerry and Rom share a glance. \"Could be.\"\"It's a long process,\" explains Gerry. \"And the truth is we are probably looking at a local variation within the monocled species.\"That night, my last in Leporiang, I\u00a0wander out among the paddy fields, treading carefully on the narrow earthen bunds that separate the fields. Thousands of frogs are celebrating the arrival of the monsoons, and no doubt, so too are the vipers, the cobras and the keelbacks. On either side of me, I\u00a0can sense, rather than see, the jungle:\u00a0a dark shadow that rises up. I\u00a0had never expected that such a place could exist in modern India, a place so unknown and untouched. In this province the local government is planning dozens of new hydroelectric dams, and yet the contents of that astonishingly diverse jungle remain largely unknown and undiscovered. If paying guests can help scientific expeditions like ours to take place,\u00a0then the tourist dollar, I\u00a0reckon, will be well spent.Getting therePlanet Wildlife (0845 519 4948, planetwildlife.com) is running a 12-day trip to the Gujarat highlands in October led by Gerry Martin to see snakes, birds and Asiatic lions for \u00a31,648pp, excluding flights. Planet Wildlife can also arrange flights from London to Ahmedabad \u2013 ask for details. Emirates (emirates.com) has return flights via Dubai from \u00a3500 for travel in\u00a0October. Kevin travelled from York to\u00a0London with East Coast Trains (eastcoast.co.uk). Returns from \u00a320Further informationFor details of other Gerry Martin expeditions, see gerrymartin.in. To see king cobras in the UK, visit the King Cobra Sanctuary (07508 797010, kingcobrasanctuary.com) in Eastwood, near Nottingham. To get involved with reptile and amphibian conservation in the UK, contact Amphibian and Reptile Groups of the UK, arguk.org", "tags": ["India holidays", "Safaris", "Asia", "Wildlife holidays", "Travel", "Adventure travel", "Snakes"], "title": "A snake safari in India"},{"date": "2011-06-08T09:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The life of someone living with HIV in India today is better compared with a few years ago, thanks to improved healthcare, provision of antiretrovirals (ARVs) and treatment for infections.People are living longer and healthier lives, but stigma and discrimination remain an issue in communities and within healthcare facilities. It is definitely worse for female sex workers, men who have sex with men (MSM, men who do not identify as homosexual or gay and are almost always married), transgendered people and hijras living with HIV. There is a real need to address the attitudes of healthcare providers and the rampant stigma against these people. It particularly hampers their access to treatment.Many people with HIV live far from their nearest ARV centre. The distance, time and money required to access treatment, and the fact that the services are not tailored to meet the needs of the communities, are huge challenges. Also, there's virtually nothing in terms of psychosocial support for those living with HIV.As an MSM living with HIV, I face challenges to access healthcare and feel that I don't have the same opportunities or social status as others. There is a lack of work opportunities for MSM, transgendered people and hijras living with HIV, which makes them more vulnerable and sometimes leads them to into sex work. Lack of work makes them feel even more isolated and worthless which can create mental health issues.Meeting the goal of MDG6 is a big challenge in India, though we have made progress. India has successfully started developing strategies with active community involvement and participation. HIV incidence in some states has also started declining, according to the limited data we have.Political and donor commitment is crucial. The goal of the national programme to halt and reverse the epidemic is far from achieved.The contribution from the international community (donors, governments, foundations and civil society partners) has helped India in different ways to control the epidemic. At this crucial juncture, the international community needs to continue to support programmes for prevention as well as care and support for those living with HIV.The international community can also contribute to the Indian response through policy and advocacy, and constant monitoring to ensure that the human rights of those affected by the epidemic are being adequately protected.\u2022 Vijay Nair works with Alliance India at its Andhra Pradesh office. He is also the director of the Asia Pacific Coalition on MSM and president of Nipasha+, a national network of MSM, transgenders and hijras living with HIV and Aids", "tags": ["Global development", "India", "World news"], "title": "Living with HIV in India"},{"date": "2011-06-21T16:37:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Google's now infamous Street View camera cars only set to work on the streets of Bangalore last month, but already Indian authorities have ordered Google to suspend taking images because it has not secured the necessary security clearance.Google has said that after Bangalore, it plans to map all major cities in India \u2013 the 27th country in which the firm plans to launch Street View. As well as cars, Google had been using some tricycles with Street View's chunky camera equipment attached.Local police were concerned that Bangalore has several military institutions, and a statement given by Google to the AFP confirmed that Google had suspended the operation following a letter from Bangalore's police commissioner.Street View concerns in developing countries are significantly different to obstacles Google has hit recently in Germany and Switzerland, which were about privacy and data retention. Street View Brazil reportedly snapped dead bodies, while in India there are also sensitivities in the wake of the Mumbai attacks and from several bombings in Bangalore itself.", "tags": ["Digital media", "Media", "Google Street View", "Google", "Technology", "India", "World news"], "title": "Google Street View cameras halted in India"},{"date": "2011-06-14T21:00:01Z", "country": "india", "content": "Britain should continue to give aid to India until 2015 to ensure the country meets the millennium development goals (MDGs), a UK cross-party group of MPs recommends.In a report published by the House of Commons international development committee on Tuesday evening, MPs said that despite India's huge economic growth over the last 25 years, average per capita income is one-twentieth of that in the UK, and more than 400 million people still live in poverty. According to the UN MDG monitor, more than a third of India's population live on less than $1.25 a day.The committee called for future aid to be targeted to improve sanitation, tackle malnutrition and challenge social exclusion. But it also recommended that after 2015 the UK's aid relationship with India should \"fundamentally change\", suggesting the Department for International Development (DfID) begins drawing up an exit strategy.Aid to India has proved a contentious issue. Andrew Mitchell, the international development secretary, has defended his decision to give \u00a3280m a year over the next four years to a country that is the 11th largest economy in the world against critics who view its economic development and its billion-dollar space programme as evidence it does not need aid. Mitchell has already said aid to India until 2015 will be targeted on the poorest, with half the money spent on pro-poor private sector development.The committee said it had examined the arguments for and against aid. Its chairman, Malcolm Bruce, said: \"The test of whether the UK should continue to give aid to India is whether that aid makes a distinct, value-added contribution to poverty reduction which would not otherwise happen. We believe most UK aid does this.\"He added: \"The Indian government has primary responsibility for poverty reduction. It has put up taxes and increased its social spending, but the poverty there is on such an extreme scale that it will take many years for India to achieve internationally agreed millennium development goals. Poverty levels remain high in some parts of India, and these are states where UK funding is targeted\"The committee found that the Indian government invested \"significant funds\" in social programmes for health, education and employment.The report noted that India's space programme was often used as an example to illustrate the country's wealth, but MPs insisted the programme also delivered socio-economic benefits, such as mapping weather patterns and the extent of floods.The committee is calling on DfID to redirect resources for India from health to sanitation and recommended the department's nutrition programme becomes a central plank of its funding to tackle malnutrition.The committee also wants the department to do more to challenge discrimination against certain castes, ethnic or religious groups and people living with disabilities.Robin Greenwood, Christian Aid's head of Asia, welcomed MPs focus on discrimination. \"Christian Aid's experience in India is that the exclusions from society of whole groups - Dalits, tribal people, religious minorities and also women - are the most important causes of continuing extreme poverty in India,\" he said.A report from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), also published on Tuesday, found that poverty in India has fallen faster than in many other emerging economies over the last 10 years, although it said the government needed to focus on more pro-poor policies, including strengthening the welfare system and improving access to healthcare. At 1% of GDP, India's health spending is among the lowest in the world.The OECD report highlighted India's high rates of school drop-outs, despite education being a government priority, and called for better regulation and funding, more incentives for teachers, and more student loans for higher education.", "tags": ["Aid", "Global development", "India", "World news"], "title": "British MPs back aid to India | Liz Ford"},{"date": "2011-06-08T09:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Life is an uphill struggle for the enormous population of people living with HIV in India. We cannot look at HIV in isolation, as it is so closely related to poverty. More than 300 million people, about one in four Indians, live below the poverty line. A vast population live in abject poverty on less than $1 per day.Progress has certainly been made for people living with HIV, as the government now provides free antiretroviral treatment. But people living with HIV also need food, acceptance, care, good mental health and opportunities. But too often they are marginalised and very poor, lacking the basic ingredients needed to lift themselves out of their situation.I believe the present socio-political-economic environment is the biggest challenge for people living with HIV in India. Corruption and a lack of accountability have pushed people with HIV to the fringes of our society. This leaves a handful of faithful NGOs and individuals reaching out to millions of people.Walk with me through the streets and slums of Mumbai and I will show you people living with HIV and Aids who are suffering silently, not knowing where their next meal will come from or whether they will get a decent funeral. People in India are not dying of Aids, they are dying of hunger, stigma and rejection.India has been combating HIV for more than two decades now and has done well in improving the number of people accessing treatment. In many ways the government, with much support from NGOs, has achieved a slowdown in the spread of HIV. Also, fewer people are dying each year from Aids-related illnesses. But the challenge remains enormous.From my experience, I know that people living in utter poverty on the margins of the society, those most vulnerable to HIV, are not just statistics. They are people, valued human beings, and it is important that we treat them as such. They have opinions and beliefs that should be valued.No one wants to live with HIV. No one chooses to be discriminated against or ostracised by their society. If people are valued, then I believe there will be access to drugs, to quality care and the comfort they need. Compassionate work without valuing others is a mere framework with no substance. Valuing others will make every other task seem effortless.", "tags": ["Global development", "India", "World news"], "title": "Living with HIV in Mumbai, India"},{"date": "2011-05-17T10:17:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "One of the highlights of my job working at Tara Books - a small publisher in Chennai, India - is meeting children who drop by to browse through our books. Chatting to three sisters (aged eight, 10 and 12) last week, the conversation turned to their most beloved characters: Hermione Granger, Charlie (of Chocolate Factory fame), Dick King Smith's Sophie, Violet Baudelaire from A Series of Unfortunate Events, Darrell from the Mallory Towers books, and the cartoon characters Calvin and Hobbes.What struck me about this list (apart from its western bias) was how varied the characters were: a mixture of male and female, heroic and flawed, traditional and unconventional. Very uplifting, especially in light of a recent study showing that male 'central' characters significantly outnumber females in children's books.\"I hadn't really considered the sex of characters in the books that the girls read,\" their mother told me, \"but thinking about it now I guess that they look for their own role models, and are drawn naturally to characters with qualities they admire.\"Being part of a feminist publishing house in India, I've had the chance to think a lot about the role of gender in children's books, and its significance in this part of the world. Stories that appear in the media about Indian women are often very negative, with the themes of forced marriage, the killing of unwanted female children, and low levels of female literacy coming up again and again. These are all very real issues, but they're not the whole story.On a day-to-day basis it's the more mundane signs of inequality that I notice. Walk down the street and tens of motorbikes will whizz past you, almost always driven by men, and more often than not with a woman perched side-saddle on the back. Eat in a local restaurant and you would be hard-pushed to find a female waiter, but go eat in someone's home, and it's a different story. It would be pretty unusual for the lady of the house to sit down and eat with you. She'll be in the kitchen putting the final touches to the next dish, or busy serving the food.And yet, the picture is even more complicated than this. This is a society in which women ARE visible in the workforce \u2013 from construction workers to engineers, doctors to street-side coconut sellers. However, in the words of my male colleague: \"Very, very few Indian men help with household chores. It is just not seen as their role, and this doesn't change if the wife has a job outside the home.\" This is exactly why it's so important that books show different possibilities to children growing up in India: female autorickshaw drivers, fathers who happily spend time in the kitchen preparing dinner, young girls who are not prepared to embody society's expectations of sensitivity and gentleness.One of my favourite Indian \"heroines\" is Jaya \u2013 the central character in Tara's book Trash, which tells the story of a group of ragpicker children living in Chennai. Enterprising, intelligent and brave, Jaya takes care of Velu, a young boy who arrives in the city having run away from his village. It is Jaya who finds Velu food, shows him how to work as a ragpicker, and protects him against adults looking to exploit him.\"Jaya showed me ways I could help other children and the environment\" says Muskan, a nine-year-old who goes to a school for underprivileged children in Mumbai. Neya, whose family live in a more comfortable suburb of Chennai, says: \"I'd like to have a friend like Jaya. She looks after Velu and understands how things work. I don't know anyone just like her, but my sister Maya says that I'm similar to her! I like that idea.\" These seemingly small adjustments in perception and expectation have the potential to bring about real change in the future. Literature may not have all the solutions, but a change in who tells the story, and from which point of view, can alter the way people think.Above all, the strength of literature lies in its subtlety \u2013 it doesn't need to preach, and I have never encountered any resistance to the unconventional characters who appear in our books, even from the most conservative of quarters. At the end of the day what we do is simple and hard to object to. We publish books with characters that demonstrate that people are not defined by whether they happen to be a boy or a girl. And for every child or parent who takes that message on board \u2013 whether consciously or unconsciously \u2013 we've won a small victory.", "tags": ["Teen books", "Children's books: 8-12 years", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "Postcard from India"},{"date": "2011-06-24T21:35:01Z", "country": "india", "content": "The first thing that happened was that an old man wearing a cap crowned with a peacock's claw, a hornbill's beak, a bearskin and a pair of knitting needles strolled up to the veranda of the government resthouse. \"You want snakes?\" he asked in broken Hindi, \"Come with me now.\"It was late afternoon. We had only just arrived from Assam, driving north for the last 100 miles up through increasingly thick jungle on a deteriorating dirt road, watching the last vestiges of modern India drop away. The garish advertising went first, the traffic next, then the plastic litter and jerry-built, stained concrete buildings. In their place came deep jungle and mountain rivers, interspersed with bamboo longhouses and people who stared. \"Are you ghosts?\" one man shouted. By the time we reached Leporiang village at the end of the track, we had slipped out of the 21st century and landed, hopeful and smiling, in something very different to the rest of the howling, honking mayhem that is modern India.The north-east of India has never made much of a contribution to the country's tourism phenomenon. There have been, for a start, plenty of political problems. Culturally more akin to Burma or China than Delhi or Mumbai, the region has been a minefield of independence movements and ethnic rivalries. And of these, Arunachal Pradesh is one of the most remote and inaccessible. It covers those jungled mountains that extend 350 miles eastwards from the Bhutanese border all the way to Burma. Claimed by China and largely ignored by Delhi, its steep-sided hills and rampaging rivers have barely been touched by the modern world. Our hosts, the Nyishi tribe, are a people whose knowledge of the lands beyond their jungles was, until half a century ago, largely based on slaving forays among the lowland Assamese. I had arrived as part of a scientific expedition, one that amateur naturalists can accompany, with the aim of collecting snake venom for anti-venom serum.This is not a frivolous or obscure project, as expedition leader Gerry Martin pointed out. \"There are about one million snake bites in India every year \u2013 50,000 of them fatal. Thousands of other people are incapacitated.\"The problem is that Indian snakes are not well studied. Scientists are just beginning to realise that venom is often location-specific and also that certain species may in fact be several distinct species. Our other expert, Rom Whitaker, American-born but brought up in India, is one of the greatest authorities on Indian snakes; he was quick to point out the limitations of current knowledge.\"Take some of the snakes we are looking for here: Medo's pit viper \u2013 we know almost nothing. It's probably a group of species. And Kaulback's pit viper \u2013 discovered in 1940 in south-west China and here in India only three years ago. It's a six-foot-long, highly venomous pit viper \u2013 that's about all we know.\" Rom's particular object of study is king cobras. \"They'll be here for sure.\"I'm no snake expert. In Africa once I was chased by a black mamba and the experience frightened the life out of me. I have very mixed feelings about this trip. But I am not going to have time to dwell on that. No sooner has the old man in the curious tribal hat mentioned his knowledge than we are on the march, heading out past the rice fields, following him down towards the river at the bottom of the valley.We cross the torrent on logs laid across boulders, then climb up to a large flat rock in a bracken-covered clearing. \"They live under there,\" says our informant. Immediately Gerry and his assistant Soham Mukherjee are on their knees shining torches into the cracks. \"Cobras,\" whispers Gerry, \"Big ones.\"A crowd of excited villagers is gathering. For them it is clearly a thrilling novelty that someone might want to catch a snake and not kill it. Rom is showing them identification photographs and they all pick out the monocled cobra as the species we are tackling. They are more interested, however, in another picture: Kaulback's pit viper. \"Oh, very bad!\" says one young man in English \u2013 a language as rare as anti-venom in these parts. \"We call him barta [meaning the deadliest of all snakes] and he is very bad. If you see one, you must kill it immediately or it will follow you home and kill someone in your longhouse.\"\"Where do you find them?\" asks Rom.\"In the jungle \u2013 mountain tops.\"Rom looks doubtful. \"People always think snakes are far away, but in my experience they are close, like this one.\"Gerry is calling him over to the boulder. He's placed a coat over one side of the crack, creating a dark, inviting escape hole. Now he's gently poking with a stick and waving the torch. \"He's coming. You ready, Rom?\"Rom jumps up next to the boulder, a long, hooked snake stick in hand. Some of the local children start running away, a few adults too. The snake, smooth, powerful and grey, shoots out of the hole over Rom's waiting snake hook. Rom grabs it by the tail and lifts it up with the hook. The cobra, furious, whips its body around hissing, but Rom skilfully controls it. Gerry has a canvas bag ready and the six-foot reptile is dropped inside. It immediately settles down, comforted by the darkness. \"They go into a kind of torpor,\" says Gerry. \"We'll keep him a week, then take venom before we release him.\"Walking back to the resthouse, it's getting dark and I'm close behind Rom at a tricky climb over a bamboo fence. Suddenly he stoops down and seizes a snake in the undergrowth and bags it. \"Himalayan keelback,\" he grins. The manouevre is completed so quickly I haven't even seen the creature.Later, this incident prompts me to ask if an untutored outsider can actually help much on an expedition like this.\"Honestly?\" he asks. \"Well, the money from paying guests helps a lot. This kind of expedition would not go ahead without it. And extra pairs of eyes and hands are genuinely useful.\"There is another benefit that I start to appreciate over the following days. Simply by showing an interest in wildlife, the visitor can help transform local attitudes. In Nyishi territory, the birds, for example, are hunted along with other creatures: the deer, the squirrels, the clouded leopard and bear. Tigers and elephants have all but disappeared, though a few old men tell us that they still exist in the most remote areas. Our interest triggers a response. Climbing up a steep hillside cleared for rice, one farmer is keen to show me a nest in his rain shelter, then points out the brilliant colours of a golden-throated barbet on a nearby tree and a pair of woodpeckers. The Nyishi here are hunters and they have an intimate and detailed knowledge of every living creature around them. It just never occurred to them that these might have any use other than food.That evening more people stop by the resthouse \u2013 as we are apparently the first Europeans ever to visit Leporiang, we are treated to a constant stream of curious visitors. They leaf through our books, stare at Gerry's laptop, ask questions: \"Why do you white people all look the same?\"One youth grins at our female expedition members, Janike and Hema, and announces, \"In my grandfather's time we would keep your women and thrash the men.\" We all laugh. I'm pretty sure that \"thrash\" is a euphemism for \"kill\".Almost every middle-aged man carries a sword, and some have bows and poison-tipped arrows in bearskin quivers. The youths scorn such things, preferring hair gel and sneakers. Women are less adorned and appear to do all the work: hoeing the impossibly steep hillsides, carrying vast loads of firewood and cooking our meals in the government resthouse \u2013 Leporiang's only accommodation for visitors. On Sunday they head for the church on the hill and throw themselves, babies on their backs, into frenetic bouts of mass hysteria and swooning. This is a culture that's diving headlong into its own unfathomable future.Among our visitors is one old man who saunters up the veranda and from a basket produces a dead snake \u2013 a gorgeous black, yellow and blue creature about five foot long. The effect on our experts is electric. Janike does a scale count \u2013 a diagnostic test in snakes \u2013 and declares the creature to be a Kaulback's. The old-timer has different ideas.\"It's not barta,\" he says, using the local name. \"It's taji. They are different.\"This is inexplicable, but our scientists do not discount it: knowledge of these snakes is so scarce that every morsel of local information is noted down.The next day we trek for miles, deep into the jungled mountains, to find where this snake lived. The trees are shaggy with orchids and ferns \u2013 entire ecosystems in themselves. The rivers are heaving with fish and tadpoles the size of my thumb. And the vegetation is laden with leeches \u2013 harmless, if unpleasant. We flick them away with increasing regularity. Inside a narrow valley, we locate the precise spot where the Kaulback's pit viper was killed, then we fan out and start searching. Three hours later we have not found any snakes and decide to return. Almost immediately, Soham spots movement in the undergrowth and pounces, triumphantly lifting up a small lizard. It's a long-legged creature with a gorgeous green and orange throat.\"Almost certainly a new species,\" declares Gerry. \"We found one last year in the next valley and no one has yet identified it.\" It seems a pretty good consolation for not finding the viper, but our guides are not satisfied. That night another old man in a Nyishi cap arrives to look at us. News of the strange foreigners who are interested in snakes has reached his longhouse some miles away. \"Search the river at night,\" he tells us. \"The overhanging trees are full of snakes.\"Naturally, a torch-lit search for venomous reptiles while waist-deep in a fast-flowing Himalayan river is a snake-hunter's idea of a good night out. After dinner we head off, myself rather reluctantly at the rear. We clamber down to the river below the village, Gerry and Rom leading the way. Not everyone, it has to be said, would enjoy such abnormal behaviour, but I am about to experience one of the highs that such determination can bring.The river is fast-flowing and 30 metres across. Soon the group is spread out, torches flaring off the trees and water. I find myself wading after Soham \u2013 he found the lizard, I reason, so maybe good luck is with him. We get separated from the others and come across two local men hunting fish with their hands. It's one of them who shouts the warning. \"Look up!\"On a branch 10 feet above the raging torrent is a coiled emerald-green serpent, its head the shape of a blunt arrowhead. We inch closer. The boulders are desperately slippery and I go down once, grateful I've packed my camera in a dry bag. The fisherman, eager to help, grabs the branch and shakes. The viper falls in the river among us. Soham coolly dives forward and grabs its tail, then gets it on his snake stick. We all shuffle and stumble towards a sandbank to get a closer look at this phenomenally beautiful creature, so perfect in every precisely defined scale and feature.Back at base camp we get further treats: Leporiang has only recently got electricity and there are a few bulbs in town, some of them on our veranda. The light has brought visitors: a huge pale moth, pressed to the door like a fallen moon, then another, as broad as my outstretched hand, with huge brown eyes on its furry wings.The days roll by and the end of the week arrives. It's time to inspect all our snakes \u2013 nine of them \u2013 to identify and photograph them. Unfortunately, I am going to miss the venom extraction as the necessary ice has not arrived from Assam, but we go through the identification. First is a green rat snake \u2013 non-venomous, so I have a go at handling it. Then come keelbacks \u2013 Himalayan and St John's \u2013 and two Medo's pit vipers, one a baby with its umbilical cord mark still visible (most vipers give birth rather than laying eggs). Next is a false cobra and a strange burrowing snake, more like a worm, really. Finally we come to the two cobras. Gerry prepares carefully. This is a big, fast animal and extremely venomous. As it drops out of the bag it's clearly angry, hissing loudly. Held by the tail, however, the snake rears up and spreads its hood.\"Monocled cobra,\" someone shouts confidently. But Rom is frowning. \"I'm not so sure. Let's do the scale counts.\"They place the snake's head in a clear plastic tube to prevent any mishaps and start the counts. Janike immediately announces that nothing fits the expected figures for a monocled cobra \u2013 a well-known Indian species. \"Check the tail-to-body ratio,\" she says.When the result is shouted out, Rom shakes his head. \"That's incredible. I mean, what is this thing?\"Further results only increase his consternation. The snake, meanwhile, is getting tired. They pop it back in the bag to rest. It feels like no one dares say it, so I do. \"New species of cobra?\"Gerry and Rom share a glance. \"Could be.\"\"It's a long process,\" explains Gerry. \"And the truth is we are probably looking at a local variation within the monocled species.\"That night, my last in Leporiang, I\u00a0wander out among the paddy fields, treading carefully on the narrow earthen bunds that separate the fields. Thousands of frogs are celebrating the arrival of the monsoons, and no doubt, so too are the vipers, the cobras and the keelbacks. On either side of me, I\u00a0can sense, rather than see, the jungle:\u00a0a dark shadow that rises up. I\u00a0had never expected that such a place could exist in modern India, a place so unknown and untouched. In this province the local government is planning dozens of new hydroelectric dams, and yet the contents of that astonishingly diverse jungle remain largely unknown and undiscovered. If paying guests can help scientific expeditions like ours to take place,\u00a0then the tourist dollar, I\u00a0reckon, will be well spent.Getting therePlanet Wildlife (0845 519 4948, planetwildlife.com) is running a 12-day trip to the Gujarat highlands in October led by Gerry Martin to see snakes, birds and Asiatic lions for \u00a31,648pp, excluding flights. Planet Wildlife can also arrange flights from London to Ahmedabad \u2013 ask for details. Emirates (emirates.com) has return flights via Dubai from \u00a3500 for travel in\u00a0October. Kevin travelled from York to\u00a0London with East Coast Trains (eastcoast.co.uk). Returns from \u00a320Further informationFor details of other Gerry Martin expeditions, see gerrymartin.in. To see king cobras in the UK, visit the King Cobra Sanctuary (07508 797010, kingcobrasanctuary.com) in Eastwood, near Nottingham. To get involved with reptile and amphibian conservation in the UK, contact Amphibian and Reptile Groups of the UK, arguk.org", "tags": ["India holidays", "Safaris", "Asia", "Wildlife holidays", "Travel", "Adventure travel", "Snakes"], "title": "A snake safari in India"},{"date": "2011-06-08T09:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The life of someone living with HIV in India today is better compared with a few years ago, thanks to improved healthcare, provision of antiretrovirals (ARVs) and treatment for infections.People are living longer and healthier lives, but stigma and discrimination remain an issue in communities and within healthcare facilities. It is definitely worse for female sex workers, men who have sex with men (MSM, men who do not identify as homosexual or gay and are almost always married), transgendered people and hijras living with HIV. There is a real need to address the attitudes of healthcare providers and the rampant stigma against these people. It particularly hampers their access to treatment.Many people with HIV live far from their nearest ARV centre. The distance, time and money required to access treatment, and the fact that the services are not tailored to meet the needs of the communities, are huge challenges. Also, there's virtually nothing in terms of psychosocial support for those living with HIV.As an MSM living with HIV, I face challenges to access healthcare and feel that I don't have the same opportunities or social status as others. There is a lack of work opportunities for MSM, transgendered people and hijras living with HIV, which makes them more vulnerable and sometimes leads them to into sex work. Lack of work makes them feel even more isolated and worthless which can create mental health issues.Meeting the goal of MDG6 is a big challenge in India, though we have made progress. India has successfully started developing strategies with active community involvement and participation. HIV incidence in some states has also started declining, according to the limited data we have.Political and donor commitment is crucial. The goal of the national programme to halt and reverse the epidemic is far from achieved.The contribution from the international community (donors, governments, foundations and civil society partners) has helped India in different ways to control the epidemic. At this crucial juncture, the international community needs to continue to support programmes for prevention as well as care and support for those living with HIV.The international community can also contribute to the Indian response through policy and advocacy, and constant monitoring to ensure that the human rights of those affected by the epidemic are being adequately protected.\u2022 Vijay Nair works with Alliance India at its Andhra Pradesh office. He is also the director of the Asia Pacific Coalition on MSM and president of Nipasha+, a national network of MSM, transgenders and hijras living with HIV and Aids", "tags": ["Global development", "India", "World news"], "title": "Living with HIV in India"},{"date": "2011-06-21T16:37:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Google's now infamous Street View camera cars only set to work on the streets of Bangalore last month, but already Indian authorities have ordered Google to suspend taking images because it has not secured the necessary security clearance.Google has said that after Bangalore, it plans to map all major cities in India \u2013 the 27th country in which the firm plans to launch Street View. As well as cars, Google had been using some tricycles with Street View's chunky camera equipment attached.Local police were concerned that Bangalore has several military institutions, and a statement given by Google to the AFP confirmed that Google had suspended the operation following a letter from Bangalore's police commissioner.Street View concerns in developing countries are significantly different to obstacles Google has hit recently in Germany and Switzerland, which were about privacy and data retention. Street View Brazil reportedly snapped dead bodies, while in India there are also sensitivities in the wake of the Mumbai attacks and from several bombings in Bangalore itself.", "tags": ["Digital media", "Media", "Google Street View", "Google", "Technology", "India", "World news"], "title": "Google Street View cameras halted in India"},{"date": "2011-06-14T21:00:01Z", "country": "india", "content": "Britain should continue to give aid to India until 2015 to ensure the country meets the millennium development goals (MDGs), a UK cross-party group of MPs recommends.In a report published by the House of Commons international development committee on Tuesday evening, MPs said that despite India's huge economic growth over the last 25 years, average per capita income is one-twentieth of that in the UK, and more than 400 million people still live in poverty. According to the UN MDG monitor, more than a third of India's population live on less than $1.25 a day.The committee called for future aid to be targeted to improve sanitation, tackle malnutrition and challenge social exclusion. But it also recommended that after 2015 the UK's aid relationship with India should \"fundamentally change\", suggesting the Department for International Development (DfID) begins drawing up an exit strategy.Aid to India has proved a contentious issue. Andrew Mitchell, the international development secretary, has defended his decision to give \u00a3280m a year over the next four years to a country that is the 11th largest economy in the world against critics who view its economic development and its billion-dollar space programme as evidence it does not need aid. Mitchell has already said aid to India until 2015 will be targeted on the poorest, with half the money spent on pro-poor private sector development.The committee said it had examined the arguments for and against aid. Its chairman, Malcolm Bruce, said: \"The test of whether the UK should continue to give aid to India is whether that aid makes a distinct, value-added contribution to poverty reduction which would not otherwise happen. We believe most UK aid does this.\"He added: \"The Indian government has primary responsibility for poverty reduction. It has put up taxes and increased its social spending, but the poverty there is on such an extreme scale that it will take many years for India to achieve internationally agreed millennium development goals. Poverty levels remain high in some parts of India, and these are states where UK funding is targeted\"The committee found that the Indian government invested \"significant funds\" in social programmes for health, education and employment.The report noted that India's space programme was often used as an example to illustrate the country's wealth, but MPs insisted the programme also delivered socio-economic benefits, such as mapping weather patterns and the extent of floods.The committee is calling on DfID to redirect resources for India from health to sanitation and recommended the department's nutrition programme becomes a central plank of its funding to tackle malnutrition.The committee also wants the department to do more to challenge discrimination against certain castes, ethnic or religious groups and people living with disabilities.Robin Greenwood, Christian Aid's head of Asia, welcomed MPs focus on discrimination. \"Christian Aid's experience in India is that the exclusions from society of whole groups - Dalits, tribal people, religious minorities and also women - are the most important causes of continuing extreme poverty in India,\" he said.A report from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), also published on Tuesday, found that poverty in India has fallen faster than in many other emerging economies over the last 10 years, although it said the government needed to focus on more pro-poor policies, including strengthening the welfare system and improving access to healthcare. At 1% of GDP, India's health spending is among the lowest in the world.The OECD report highlighted India's high rates of school drop-outs, despite education being a government priority, and called for better regulation and funding, more incentives for teachers, and more student loans for higher education.", "tags": ["Aid", "Global development", "India", "World news"], "title": "British MPs back aid to India | Liz Ford"},{"date": "2011-06-08T09:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Life is an uphill struggle for the enormous population of people living with HIV in India. We cannot look at HIV in isolation, as it is so closely related to poverty. More than 300 million people, about one in four Indians, live below the poverty line. A vast population live in abject poverty on less than $1 per day.Progress has certainly been made for people living with HIV, as the government now provides free antiretroviral treatment. But people living with HIV also need food, acceptance, care, good mental health and opportunities. But too often they are marginalised and very poor, lacking the basic ingredients needed to lift themselves out of their situation.I believe the present socio-political-economic environment is the biggest challenge for people living with HIV in India. Corruption and a lack of accountability have pushed people with HIV to the fringes of our society. This leaves a handful of faithful NGOs and individuals reaching out to millions of people.Walk with me through the streets and slums of Mumbai and I will show you people living with HIV and Aids who are suffering silently, not knowing where their next meal will come from or whether they will get a decent funeral. People in India are not dying of Aids, they are dying of hunger, stigma and rejection.India has been combating HIV for more than two decades now and has done well in improving the number of people accessing treatment. In many ways the government, with much support from NGOs, has achieved a slowdown in the spread of HIV. Also, fewer people are dying each year from Aids-related illnesses. But the challenge remains enormous.From my experience, I know that people living in utter poverty on the margins of the society, those most vulnerable to HIV, are not just statistics. They are people, valued human beings, and it is important that we treat them as such. They have opinions and beliefs that should be valued.No one wants to live with HIV. No one chooses to be discriminated against or ostracised by their society. If people are valued, then I believe there will be access to drugs, to quality care and the comfort they need. Compassionate work without valuing others is a mere framework with no substance. Valuing others will make every other task seem effortless.", "tags": ["Global development", "India", "World news"], "title": "Living with HIV in Mumbai, India"},{"date": "2011-06-02T14:56:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Union leaders have attacked a Tory-led council over its involvement in the \"export\" of up to 100 jobs to India, amid warnings that the move could be \"the tip of the iceberg\" that could see thousands of taxpayer-funded jobs go overseas.Unite claimed Birmingham city council, a Conservative-Liberal Democrat run authority led by the Conservative Mike Whitby, is the first town hall in the country involved in plans to move jobs to India for work paid for by taxpayers. A redundancy notice for 70 IT posts has already been served.Officials said they feared more council jobs in Birmingham and other local authorities could also go abroad as private companies delivering public services prepare to go to \"any length\" to cut costs for profit.Another union cited jobs being \"shipped out\" as it launched a strike ballot of nearly 10,000 members at Birmingham city council over job cuts, workers' pay and conditions.Unison is balloting against plans known as the Birmingham contract, which it claims breaks away from nationally agreed terms and conditions, abolishes payments for weekend and out-of-hours working and weakens workers' rights in grievances and disciplinaries. It said the \"contract\" will have a disproportionate impact on low-paid women workers.The union said that, to add \"insult to injury\", staff who face redundancy at the arms-length IT company are being told they must train up their replacements in India before they go.But the council said the new staff contracts were designed to make the authority \"fit for the challenges facing the public sector\" and contribute to the budgetary savings it has to make.Alan Rudge, the cabinet member for equalities and human resources, said: \"There is a clear need to bring our organisation into line with other leading employers, and the new Birmingham contract will make the council more resilient to future pressures through the reduction in costs and the introduction of broad job groups.\"Service Birmingham, a joint venture between the outsourcing firm Capita and the council, confirmed it has already transferred 17 \"back office\" IT support roles to India and has issued formal notice of redundancy plans for local workers ahead of the transfer of a further 38 roles in the summer.A further 45 jobs will be transferred to India later in the year if the first two phases of transfer go well, according to a spokesman.In a statement, Service Birmingham said: \"It is important to emphasise this is a very small element of the work we do for the council, and we remain absolutely committed to our Birmingham workforce.\"The Unite national officer, Peter Allenson, said: \"It beggars belief that council workers will be forced to train workers from overseas to do their jobs so Capita and Birmingham council can lift and shift them abroad.\"Unite is demanding that Birmingham city council halts its plans. We fear this could be just the tip of the iceberg and other councils could follow suit. Thousands of public sector jobs could go. Once these jobs go, they will not come back.\"He added: \"The blame lies firmly with private companies prepared to go to any length to cut costs for profit and this Tory-led council which is encouraging them to get away with it.\"A council spokesman insisted the transfer of jobs to India \"is a story about Service Birmingham\" and referred all comments to its spokesman. The council has a one-third stake in the venture.Capita, through the Service Birmingham company, has the contract for the council's IT and call centre services until 2021. It is also working on the authority's business transformation programme, which has been running since 2005 and aims to save the council \u00a31bn in costs by 2016.Despite the planned redundancies, Service Birmingham said it was committed to increasing local workforce numbers. \"Offshore staff will only ever represent a fraction of Service Birmingham's 1,100 workforce,\" the statement said.\"In addition, we will honour our jobs promise to employ an additional 520 people in the Birmingham area by 1 April 2011, 720 by 1 April 2013 and 800 by the end of 2016.\"The council plans to cut \u00a3300m from the city budget by 2015 as well as shed 7,116 jobs, which Unison says represents 37% of the council workforce.The union claims that, once part-time jobs are factored in, the total job losses increase to 10,000, which will have a \"devastating impact on council services\".Mark New, a regional organiser for the union, said: \"Members are upset and angry and Unison is asking them to take a stand against these savage cuts. To add insult to injury, the council plans to outsource more jobs to India.\"The massive job cuts, the pay freeze and privatisation, will leave the council struggling to provide decent services to people in Birmingham.\"Birmingham council is cutting back too hard and too fast. The cuts will devastate whole communities and the local economy, as well as the lives of council workers and their families.\"", "tags": ["Politics", "Local government", "Society", "Public sector cuts", "Public services policy", "Public finance", "Conservatives", "Liberal Democrats", "UK news", "Birmingham"], "title": "Tory-led council outsources jobs to India"},{"date": "2011-05-17T10:17:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "One of the highlights of my job working at Tara Books - a small publisher in Chennai, India - is meeting children who drop by to browse through our books. Chatting to three sisters (aged eight, 10 and 12) last week, the conversation turned to their most beloved characters: Hermione Granger, Charlie (of Chocolate Factory fame), Dick King Smith's Sophie, Violet Baudelaire from A Series of Unfortunate Events, Darrell from the Mallory Towers books, and the cartoon characters Calvin and Hobbes.What struck me about this list (apart from its western bias) was how varied the characters were: a mixture of male and female, heroic and flawed, traditional and unconventional. Very uplifting, especially in light of a recent study showing that male 'central' characters significantly outnumber females in children's books.\"I hadn't really considered the sex of characters in the books that the girls read,\" their mother told me, \"but thinking about it now I guess that they look for their own role models, and are drawn naturally to characters with qualities they admire.\"Being part of a feminist publishing house in India, I've had the chance to think a lot about the role of gender in children's books, and its significance in this part of the world. Stories that appear in the media about Indian women are often very negative, with the themes of forced marriage, the killing of unwanted female children, and low levels of female literacy coming up again and again. These are all very real issues, but they're not the whole story.On a day-to-day basis it's the more mundane signs of inequality that I notice. Walk down the street and tens of motorbikes will whizz past you, almost always driven by men, and more often than not with a woman perched side-saddle on the back. Eat in a local restaurant and you would be hard-pushed to find a female waiter, but go eat in someone's home, and it's a different story. It would be pretty unusual for the lady of the house to sit down and eat with you. She'll be in the kitchen putting the final touches to the next dish, or busy serving the food.And yet, the picture is even more complicated than this. This is a society in which women ARE visible in the workforce \u2013 from construction workers to engineers, doctors to street-side coconut sellers. However, in the words of my male colleague: \"Very, very few Indian men help with household chores. It is just not seen as their role, and this doesn't change if the wife has a job outside the home.\" This is exactly why it's so important that books show different possibilities to children growing up in India: female autorickshaw drivers, fathers who happily spend time in the kitchen preparing dinner, young girls who are not prepared to embody society's expectations of sensitivity and gentleness.One of my favourite Indian \"heroines\" is Jaya \u2013 the central character in Tara's book Trash, which tells the story of a group of ragpicker children living in Chennai. Enterprising, intelligent and brave, Jaya takes care of Velu, a young boy who arrives in the city having run away from his village. It is Jaya who finds Velu food, shows him how to work as a ragpicker, and protects him against adults looking to exploit him.\"Jaya showed me ways I could help other children and the environment\" says Muskan, a nine-year-old who goes to a school for underprivileged children in Mumbai. Neya, whose family live in a more comfortable suburb of Chennai, says: \"I'd like to have a friend like Jaya. She looks after Velu and understands how things work. I don't know anyone just like her, but my sister Maya says that I'm similar to her! I like that idea.\" These seemingly small adjustments in perception and expectation have the potential to bring about real change in the future. Literature may not have all the solutions, but a change in who tells the story, and from which point of view, can alter the way people think.Above all, the strength of literature lies in its subtlety \u2013 it doesn't need to preach, and I have never encountered any resistance to the unconventional characters who appear in our books, even from the most conservative of quarters. At the end of the day what we do is simple and hard to object to. We publish books with characters that demonstrate that people are not defined by whether they happen to be a boy or a girl. And for every child or parent who takes that message on board \u2013 whether consciously or unconsciously \u2013 we've won a small victory.", "tags": ["Teen books", "Children's books: 8-12 years", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "Postcard from India"},{"date": "2011-06-24T21:35:01Z", "country": "india", "content": "The first thing that happened was that an old man wearing a cap crowned with a peacock's claw, a hornbill's beak, a bearskin and a pair of knitting needles strolled up to the veranda of the government resthouse. \"You want snakes?\" he asked in broken Hindi, \"Come with me now.\"It was late afternoon. We had only just arrived from Assam, driving north for the last 100 miles up through increasingly thick jungle on a deteriorating dirt road, watching the last vestiges of modern India drop away. The garish advertising went first, the traffic next, then the plastic litter and jerry-built, stained concrete buildings. In their place came deep jungle and mountain rivers, interspersed with bamboo longhouses and people who stared. \"Are you ghosts?\" one man shouted. By the time we reached Leporiang village at the end of the track, we had slipped out of the 21st century and landed, hopeful and smiling, in something very different to the rest of the howling, honking mayhem that is modern India.The north-east of India has never made much of a contribution to the country's tourism phenomenon. There have been, for a start, plenty of political problems. Culturally more akin to Burma or China than Delhi or Mumbai, the region has been a minefield of independence movements and ethnic rivalries. And of these, Arunachal Pradesh is one of the most remote and inaccessible. It covers those jungled mountains that extend 350 miles eastwards from the Bhutanese border all the way to Burma. Claimed by China and largely ignored by Delhi, its steep-sided hills and rampaging rivers have barely been touched by the modern world. Our hosts, the Nyishi tribe, are a people whose knowledge of the lands beyond their jungles was, until half a century ago, largely based on slaving forays among the lowland Assamese. I had arrived as part of a scientific expedition, one that amateur naturalists can accompany, with the aim of collecting snake venom for anti-venom serum.This is not a frivolous or obscure project, as expedition leader Gerry Martin pointed out. \"There are about one million snake bites in India every year \u2013 50,000 of them fatal. Thousands of other people are incapacitated.\"The problem is that Indian snakes are not well studied. Scientists are just beginning to realise that venom is often location-specific and also that certain species may in fact be several distinct species. Our other expert, Rom Whitaker, American-born but brought up in India, is one of the greatest authorities on Indian snakes; he was quick to point out the limitations of current knowledge.\"Take some of the snakes we are looking for here: Medo's pit viper \u2013 we know almost nothing. It's probably a group of species. And Kaulback's pit viper \u2013 discovered in 1940 in south-west China and here in India only three years ago. It's a six-foot-long, highly venomous pit viper \u2013 that's about all we know.\" Rom's particular object of study is king cobras. \"They'll be here for sure.\"I'm no snake expert. In Africa once I was chased by a black mamba and the experience frightened the life out of me. I have very mixed feelings about this trip. But I am not going to have time to dwell on that. No sooner has the old man in the curious tribal hat mentioned his knowledge than we are on the march, heading out past the rice fields, following him down towards the river at the bottom of the valley.We cross the torrent on logs laid across boulders, then climb up to a large flat rock in a bracken-covered clearing. \"They live under there,\" says our informant. Immediately Gerry and his assistant Soham Mukherjee are on their knees shining torches into the cracks. \"Cobras,\" whispers Gerry, \"Big ones.\"A crowd of excited villagers is gathering. For them it is clearly a thrilling novelty that someone might want to catch a snake and not kill it. Rom is showing them identification photographs and they all pick out the monocled cobra as the species we are tackling. They are more interested, however, in another picture: Kaulback's pit viper. \"Oh, very bad!\" says one young man in English \u2013 a language as rare as anti-venom in these parts. \"We call him barta [meaning the deadliest of all snakes] and he is very bad. If you see one, you must kill it immediately or it will follow you home and kill someone in your longhouse.\"\"Where do you find them?\" asks Rom.\"In the jungle \u2013 mountain tops.\"Rom looks doubtful. \"People always think snakes are far away, but in my experience they are close, like this one.\"Gerry is calling him over to the boulder. He's placed a coat over one side of the crack, creating a dark, inviting escape hole. Now he's gently poking with a stick and waving the torch. \"He's coming. You ready, Rom?\"Rom jumps up next to the boulder, a long, hooked snake stick in hand. Some of the local children start running away, a few adults too. The snake, smooth, powerful and grey, shoots out of the hole over Rom's waiting snake hook. Rom grabs it by the tail and lifts it up with the hook. The cobra, furious, whips its body around hissing, but Rom skilfully controls it. Gerry has a canvas bag ready and the six-foot reptile is dropped inside. It immediately settles down, comforted by the darkness. \"They go into a kind of torpor,\" says Gerry. \"We'll keep him a week, then take venom before we release him.\"Walking back to the resthouse, it's getting dark and I'm close behind Rom at a tricky climb over a bamboo fence. Suddenly he stoops down and seizes a snake in the undergrowth and bags it. \"Himalayan keelback,\" he grins. The manouevre is completed so quickly I haven't even seen the creature.Later, this incident prompts me to ask if an untutored outsider can actually help much on an expedition like this.\"Honestly?\" he asks. \"Well, the money from paying guests helps a lot. This kind of expedition would not go ahead without it. And extra pairs of eyes and hands are genuinely useful.\"There is another benefit that I start to appreciate over the following days. Simply by showing an interest in wildlife, the visitor can help transform local attitudes. In Nyishi territory, the birds, for example, are hunted along with other creatures: the deer, the squirrels, the clouded leopard and bear. Tigers and elephants have all but disappeared, though a few old men tell us that they still exist in the most remote areas. Our interest triggers a response. Climbing up a steep hillside cleared for rice, one farmer is keen to show me a nest in his rain shelter, then points out the brilliant colours of a golden-throated barbet on a nearby tree and a pair of woodpeckers. The Nyishi here are hunters and they have an intimate and detailed knowledge of every living creature around them. It just never occurred to them that these might have any use other than food.That evening more people stop by the resthouse \u2013 as we are apparently the first Europeans ever to visit Leporiang, we are treated to a constant stream of curious visitors. They leaf through our books, stare at Gerry's laptop, ask questions: \"Why do you white people all look the same?\"One youth grins at our female expedition members, Janike and Hema, and announces, \"In my grandfather's time we would keep your women and thrash the men.\" We all laugh. I'm pretty sure that \"thrash\" is a euphemism for \"kill\".Almost every middle-aged man carries a sword, and some have bows and poison-tipped arrows in bearskin quivers. The youths scorn such things, preferring hair gel and sneakers. Women are less adorned and appear to do all the work: hoeing the impossibly steep hillsides, carrying vast loads of firewood and cooking our meals in the government resthouse \u2013 Leporiang's only accommodation for visitors. On Sunday they head for the church on the hill and throw themselves, babies on their backs, into frenetic bouts of mass hysteria and swooning. This is a culture that's diving headlong into its own unfathomable future.Among our visitors is one old man who saunters up the veranda and from a basket produces a dead snake \u2013 a gorgeous black, yellow and blue creature about five foot long. The effect on our experts is electric. Janike does a scale count \u2013 a diagnostic test in snakes \u2013 and declares the creature to be a Kaulback's. The old-timer has different ideas.\"It's not barta,\" he says, using the local name. \"It's taji. They are different.\"This is inexplicable, but our scientists do not discount it: knowledge of these snakes is so scarce that every morsel of local information is noted down.The next day we trek for miles, deep into the jungled mountains, to find where this snake lived. The trees are shaggy with orchids and ferns \u2013 entire ecosystems in themselves. The rivers are heaving with fish and tadpoles the size of my thumb. And the vegetation is laden with leeches \u2013 harmless, if unpleasant. We flick them away with increasing regularity. Inside a narrow valley, we locate the precise spot where the Kaulback's pit viper was killed, then we fan out and start searching. Three hours later we have not found any snakes and decide to return. Almost immediately, Soham spots movement in the undergrowth and pounces, triumphantly lifting up a small lizard. It's a long-legged creature with a gorgeous green and orange throat.\"Almost certainly a new species,\" declares Gerry. \"We found one last year in the next valley and no one has yet identified it.\" It seems a pretty good consolation for not finding the viper, but our guides are not satisfied. That night another old man in a Nyishi cap arrives to look at us. News of the strange foreigners who are interested in snakes has reached his longhouse some miles away. \"Search the river at night,\" he tells us. \"The overhanging trees are full of snakes.\"Naturally, a torch-lit search for venomous reptiles while waist-deep in a fast-flowing Himalayan river is a snake-hunter's idea of a good night out. After dinner we head off, myself rather reluctantly at the rear. We clamber down to the river below the village, Gerry and Rom leading the way. Not everyone, it has to be said, would enjoy such abnormal behaviour, but I am about to experience one of the highs that such determination can bring.The river is fast-flowing and 30 metres across. Soon the group is spread out, torches flaring off the trees and water. I find myself wading after Soham \u2013 he found the lizard, I reason, so maybe good luck is with him. We get separated from the others and come across two local men hunting fish with their hands. It's one of them who shouts the warning. \"Look up!\"On a branch 10 feet above the raging torrent is a coiled emerald-green serpent, its head the shape of a blunt arrowhead. We inch closer. The boulders are desperately slippery and I go down once, grateful I've packed my camera in a dry bag. The fisherman, eager to help, grabs the branch and shakes. The viper falls in the river among us. Soham coolly dives forward and grabs its tail, then gets it on his snake stick. We all shuffle and stumble towards a sandbank to get a closer look at this phenomenally beautiful creature, so perfect in every precisely defined scale and feature.Back at base camp we get further treats: Leporiang has only recently got electricity and there are a few bulbs in town, some of them on our veranda. The light has brought visitors: a huge pale moth, pressed to the door like a fallen moon, then another, as broad as my outstretched hand, with huge brown eyes on its furry wings.The days roll by and the end of the week arrives. It's time to inspect all our snakes \u2013 nine of them \u2013 to identify and photograph them. Unfortunately, I am going to miss the venom extraction as the necessary ice has not arrived from Assam, but we go through the identification. First is a green rat snake \u2013 non-venomous, so I have a go at handling it. Then come keelbacks \u2013 Himalayan and St John's \u2013 and two Medo's pit vipers, one a baby with its umbilical cord mark still visible (most vipers give birth rather than laying eggs). Next is a false cobra and a strange burrowing snake, more like a worm, really. Finally we come to the two cobras. Gerry prepares carefully. This is a big, fast animal and extremely venomous. As it drops out of the bag it's clearly angry, hissing loudly. Held by the tail, however, the snake rears up and spreads its hood.\"Monocled cobra,\" someone shouts confidently. But Rom is frowning. \"I'm not so sure. Let's do the scale counts.\"They place the snake's head in a clear plastic tube to prevent any mishaps and start the counts. Janike immediately announces that nothing fits the expected figures for a monocled cobra \u2013 a well-known Indian species. \"Check the tail-to-body ratio,\" she says.When the result is shouted out, Rom shakes his head. \"That's incredible. I mean, what is this thing?\"Further results only increase his consternation. The snake, meanwhile, is getting tired. They pop it back in the bag to rest. It feels like no one dares say it, so I do. \"New species of cobra?\"Gerry and Rom share a glance. \"Could be.\"\"It's a long process,\" explains Gerry. \"And the truth is we are probably looking at a local variation within the monocled species.\"That night, my last in Leporiang, I\u00a0wander out among the paddy fields, treading carefully on the narrow earthen bunds that separate the fields. Thousands of frogs are celebrating the arrival of the monsoons, and no doubt, so too are the vipers, the cobras and the keelbacks. On either side of me, I\u00a0can sense, rather than see, the jungle:\u00a0a dark shadow that rises up. I\u00a0had never expected that such a place could exist in modern India, a place so unknown and untouched. In this province the local government is planning dozens of new hydroelectric dams, and yet the contents of that astonishingly diverse jungle remain largely unknown and undiscovered. If paying guests can help scientific expeditions like ours to take place,\u00a0then the tourist dollar, I\u00a0reckon, will be well spent.Getting therePlanet Wildlife (0845 519 4948, planetwildlife.com) is running a 12-day trip to the Gujarat highlands in October led by Gerry Martin to see snakes, birds and Asiatic lions for \u00a31,648pp, excluding flights. Planet Wildlife can also arrange flights from London to Ahmedabad \u2013 ask for details. Emirates (emirates.com) has return flights via Dubai from \u00a3500 for travel in\u00a0October. Kevin travelled from York to\u00a0London with East Coast Trains (eastcoast.co.uk). Returns from \u00a320Further informationFor details of other Gerry Martin expeditions, see gerrymartin.in. To see king cobras in the UK, visit the King Cobra Sanctuary (07508 797010, kingcobrasanctuary.com) in Eastwood, near Nottingham. To get involved with reptile and amphibian conservation in the UK, contact Amphibian and Reptile Groups of the UK, arguk.org", "tags": ["India holidays", "Safaris", "Asia", "Wildlife holidays", "Travel", "Adventure travel", "Snakes"], "title": "A snake safari in India"},{"date": "2011-06-08T09:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The life of someone living with HIV in India today is better compared with a few years ago, thanks to improved healthcare, provision of antiretrovirals (ARVs) and treatment for infections.People are living longer and healthier lives, but stigma and discrimination remain an issue in communities and within healthcare facilities. It is definitely worse for female sex workers, men who have sex with men (MSM, men who do not identify as homosexual or gay and are almost always married), transgendered people and hijras living with HIV. There is a real need to address the attitudes of healthcare providers and the rampant stigma against these people. It particularly hampers their access to treatment.Many people with HIV live far from their nearest ARV centre. The distance, time and money required to access treatment, and the fact that the services are not tailored to meet the needs of the communities, are huge challenges. Also, there's virtually nothing in terms of psychosocial support for those living with HIV.As an MSM living with HIV, I face challenges to access healthcare and feel that I don't have the same opportunities or social status as others. There is a lack of work opportunities for MSM, transgendered people and hijras living with HIV, which makes them more vulnerable and sometimes leads them to into sex work. Lack of work makes them feel even more isolated and worthless which can create mental health issues.Meeting the goal of MDG6 is a big challenge in India, though we have made progress. India has successfully started developing strategies with active community involvement and participation. HIV incidence in some states has also started declining, according to the limited data we have.Political and donor commitment is crucial. The goal of the national programme to halt and reverse the epidemic is far from achieved.The contribution from the international community (donors, governments, foundations and civil society partners) has helped India in different ways to control the epidemic. At this crucial juncture, the international community needs to continue to support programmes for prevention as well as care and support for those living with HIV.The international community can also contribute to the Indian response through policy and advocacy, and constant monitoring to ensure that the human rights of those affected by the epidemic are being adequately protected.\u2022 Vijay Nair works with Alliance India at its Andhra Pradesh office. He is also the director of the Asia Pacific Coalition on MSM and president of Nipasha+, a national network of MSM, transgenders and hijras living with HIV and Aids", "tags": ["Global development", "India", "World news"], "title": "Living with HIV in India"},{"date": "2011-06-21T16:37:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Google's now infamous Street View camera cars only set to work on the streets of Bangalore last month, but already Indian authorities have ordered Google to suspend taking images because it has not secured the necessary security clearance.Google has said that after Bangalore, it plans to map all major cities in India \u2013 the 27th country in which the firm plans to launch Street View. As well as cars, Google had been using some tricycles with Street View's chunky camera equipment attached.Local police were concerned that Bangalore has several military institutions, and a statement given by Google to the AFP confirmed that Google had suspended the operation following a letter from Bangalore's police commissioner.Street View concerns in developing countries are significantly different to obstacles Google has hit recently in Germany and Switzerland, which were about privacy and data retention. Street View Brazil reportedly snapped dead bodies, while in India there are also sensitivities in the wake of the Mumbai attacks and from several bombings in Bangalore itself.", "tags": ["Digital media", "Media", "Google Street View", "Google", "Technology", "India", "World news"], "title": "Google Street View cameras halted in India"},{"date": "2011-06-14T21:00:01Z", "country": "india", "content": "Britain should continue to give aid to India until 2015 to ensure the country meets the millennium development goals (MDGs), a UK cross-party group of MPs recommends.In a report published by the House of Commons international development committee on Tuesday evening, MPs said that despite India's huge economic growth over the last 25 years, average per capita income is one-twentieth of that in the UK, and more than 400 million people still live in poverty. According to the UN MDG monitor, more than a third of India's population live on less than $1.25 a day.The committee called for future aid to be targeted to improve sanitation, tackle malnutrition and challenge social exclusion. But it also recommended that after 2015 the UK's aid relationship with India should \"fundamentally change\", suggesting the Department for International Development (DfID) begins drawing up an exit strategy.Aid to India has proved a contentious issue. Andrew Mitchell, the international development secretary, has defended his decision to give \u00a3280m a year over the next four years to a country that is the 11th largest economy in the world against critics who view its economic development and its billion-dollar space programme as evidence it does not need aid. Mitchell has already said aid to India until 2015 will be targeted on the poorest, with half the money spent on pro-poor private sector development.The committee said it had examined the arguments for and against aid. Its chairman, Malcolm Bruce, said: \"The test of whether the UK should continue to give aid to India is whether that aid makes a distinct, value-added contribution to poverty reduction which would not otherwise happen. We believe most UK aid does this.\"He added: \"The Indian government has primary responsibility for poverty reduction. It has put up taxes and increased its social spending, but the poverty there is on such an extreme scale that it will take many years for India to achieve internationally agreed millennium development goals. Poverty levels remain high in some parts of India, and these are states where UK funding is targeted\"The committee found that the Indian government invested \"significant funds\" in social programmes for health, education and employment.The report noted that India's space programme was often used as an example to illustrate the country's wealth, but MPs insisted the programme also delivered socio-economic benefits, such as mapping weather patterns and the extent of floods.The committee is calling on DfID to redirect resources for India from health to sanitation and recommended the department's nutrition programme becomes a central plank of its funding to tackle malnutrition.The committee also wants the department to do more to challenge discrimination against certain castes, ethnic or religious groups and people living with disabilities.Robin Greenwood, Christian Aid's head of Asia, welcomed MPs focus on discrimination. \"Christian Aid's experience in India is that the exclusions from society of whole groups - Dalits, tribal people, religious minorities and also women - are the most important causes of continuing extreme poverty in India,\" he said.A report from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), also published on Tuesday, found that poverty in India has fallen faster than in many other emerging economies over the last 10 years, although it said the government needed to focus on more pro-poor policies, including strengthening the welfare system and improving access to healthcare. At 1% of GDP, India's health spending is among the lowest in the world.The OECD report highlighted India's high rates of school drop-outs, despite education being a government priority, and called for better regulation and funding, more incentives for teachers, and more student loans for higher education.", "tags": ["Aid", "Global development", "India", "World news"], "title": "British MPs back aid to India | Liz Ford"},{"date": "2011-06-08T09:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Life is an uphill struggle for the enormous population of people living with HIV in India. We cannot look at HIV in isolation, as it is so closely related to poverty. More than 300 million people, about one in four Indians, live below the poverty line. A vast population live in abject poverty on less than $1 per day.Progress has certainly been made for people living with HIV, as the government now provides free antiretroviral treatment. But people living with HIV also need food, acceptance, care, good mental health and opportunities. But too often they are marginalised and very poor, lacking the basic ingredients needed to lift themselves out of their situation.I believe the present socio-political-economic environment is the biggest challenge for people living with HIV in India. Corruption and a lack of accountability have pushed people with HIV to the fringes of our society. This leaves a handful of faithful NGOs and individuals reaching out to millions of people.Walk with me through the streets and slums of Mumbai and I will show you people living with HIV and Aids who are suffering silently, not knowing where their next meal will come from or whether they will get a decent funeral. People in India are not dying of Aids, they are dying of hunger, stigma and rejection.India has been combating HIV for more than two decades now and has done well in improving the number of people accessing treatment. In many ways the government, with much support from NGOs, has achieved a slowdown in the spread of HIV. Also, fewer people are dying each year from Aids-related illnesses. But the challenge remains enormous.From my experience, I know that people living in utter poverty on the margins of the society, those most vulnerable to HIV, are not just statistics. They are people, valued human beings, and it is important that we treat them as such. They have opinions and beliefs that should be valued.No one wants to live with HIV. No one chooses to be discriminated against or ostracised by their society. If people are valued, then I believe there will be access to drugs, to quality care and the comfort they need. Compassionate work without valuing others is a mere framework with no substance. Valuing others will make every other task seem effortless.", "tags": ["Global development", "India", "World news"], "title": "Living with HIV in Mumbai, India"},{"date": "2011-06-02T14:56:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Union leaders have attacked a Tory-led council over its involvement in the \"export\" of up to 100 jobs to India, amid warnings that the move could be \"the tip of the iceberg\" that could see thousands of taxpayer-funded jobs go overseas.Unite claimed Birmingham city council, a Conservative-Liberal Democrat run authority led by the Conservative Mike Whitby, is the first town hall in the country involved in plans to move jobs to India for work paid for by taxpayers. A redundancy notice for 70 IT posts has already been served.Officials said they feared more council jobs in Birmingham and other local authorities could also go abroad as private companies delivering public services prepare to go to \"any length\" to cut costs for profit.Another union cited jobs being \"shipped out\" as it launched a strike ballot of nearly 10,000 members at Birmingham city council over job cuts, workers' pay and conditions.Unison is balloting against plans known as the Birmingham contract, which it claims breaks away from nationally agreed terms and conditions, abolishes payments for weekend and out-of-hours working and weakens workers' rights in grievances and disciplinaries. It said the \"contract\" will have a disproportionate impact on low-paid women workers.The union said that, to add \"insult to injury\", staff who face redundancy at the arms-length IT company are being told they must train up their replacements in India before they go.But the council said the new staff contracts were designed to make the authority \"fit for the challenges facing the public sector\" and contribute to the budgetary savings it has to make.Alan Rudge, the cabinet member for equalities and human resources, said: \"There is a clear need to bring our organisation into line with other leading employers, and the new Birmingham contract will make the council more resilient to future pressures through the reduction in costs and the introduction of broad job groups.\"Service Birmingham, a joint venture between the outsourcing firm Capita and the council, confirmed it has already transferred 17 \"back office\" IT support roles to India and has issued formal notice of redundancy plans for local workers ahead of the transfer of a further 38 roles in the summer.A further 45 jobs will be transferred to India later in the year if the first two phases of transfer go well, according to a spokesman.In a statement, Service Birmingham said: \"It is important to emphasise this is a very small element of the work we do for the council, and we remain absolutely committed to our Birmingham workforce.\"The Unite national officer, Peter Allenson, said: \"It beggars belief that council workers will be forced to train workers from overseas to do their jobs so Capita and Birmingham council can lift and shift them abroad.\"Unite is demanding that Birmingham city council halts its plans. We fear this could be just the tip of the iceberg and other councils could follow suit. Thousands of public sector jobs could go. Once these jobs go, they will not come back.\"He added: \"The blame lies firmly with private companies prepared to go to any length to cut costs for profit and this Tory-led council which is encouraging them to get away with it.\"A council spokesman insisted the transfer of jobs to India \"is a story about Service Birmingham\" and referred all comments to its spokesman. The council has a one-third stake in the venture.Capita, through the Service Birmingham company, has the contract for the council's IT and call centre services until 2021. It is also working on the authority's business transformation programme, which has been running since 2005 and aims to save the council \u00a31bn in costs by 2016.Despite the planned redundancies, Service Birmingham said it was committed to increasing local workforce numbers. \"Offshore staff will only ever represent a fraction of Service Birmingham's 1,100 workforce,\" the statement said.\"In addition, we will honour our jobs promise to employ an additional 520 people in the Birmingham area by 1 April 2011, 720 by 1 April 2013 and 800 by the end of 2016.\"The council plans to cut \u00a3300m from the city budget by 2015 as well as shed 7,116 jobs, which Unison says represents 37% of the council workforce.The union claims that, once part-time jobs are factored in, the total job losses increase to 10,000, which will have a \"devastating impact on council services\".Mark New, a regional organiser for the union, said: \"Members are upset and angry and Unison is asking them to take a stand against these savage cuts. To add insult to injury, the council plans to outsource more jobs to India.\"The massive job cuts, the pay freeze and privatisation, will leave the council struggling to provide decent services to people in Birmingham.\"Birmingham council is cutting back too hard and too fast. The cuts will devastate whole communities and the local economy, as well as the lives of council workers and their families.\"", "tags": ["Politics", "Local government", "Society", "Public sector cuts", "Public services policy", "Public finance", "Conservatives", "Liberal Democrats", "UK news", "Birmingham"], "title": "Tory-led council outsources jobs to India"},{"date": "2011-05-10T19:59:01Z", "country": "india", "content": "Some drift towards their destiny. For others, it all hinges on a single moment. It was like that for me, says Mihir Bose. Now 64, he travelled to Britain from India to study more than 40 years ago and has since moved back and forth, exploiting his status as a returning resident. It seemed the ideal arrangement for a young man pulled between dreams of making a name for himself here and a hugely privileged, less romantic lifestyle in India. And it was ideal, until an immigration officer at Heathrow said: \"If you want to live here, live here.\" \"I had to decide; do I go back to India and continue as an accountant and give up being a writer, or stay? I thought if I went back, I would always kick myself.\" So he stayed, to the annoyance of his father, an industrialist who envisaged a life for his son more lucrative than journalism.It's been some career: 22 books, a high-profile column in the Daily Telegraph and a pioneering appointment as the BBC's first sports editor. But that wasn't the point. \"He never understood why I left such a privileged life,\" says Mihir. \"And he missed me not being there. I regret not telling him that I loved him. But I have never regretted the choice I made.\"We're having a sad debate now about migration, says Mihir. All pound signs and statistics. \"What you don't hear are the personal stories.\" So he's telling his story in words and music on the east London stage next week. And one point he's keen to make is that when we focus on the numbers served up by Migration- Watch and the benefit scrounger stories, we belittle ourselves. \"I didn't come for money. I came for values. I grew up on Wodehouse and Just William. I could have made more money where I was. There was something else.\"We forget the something else, he says. \"The freedoms and opportunities so obvious that we take them for granted. We forget the values. So we scarcely believe that anyone else might prioritise them.\"Mihir's dad died in 1984 and last year an ensuing ritual took the writer from west London to the banks of the Ganges. He wore his panama hat: a symbol of the choice he made, and of his membership of the MCC.", "tags": ["Media", "India"], "title": "Hideously diverse Britain: a passage from India"},{"date": "2011-05-17T10:17:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "One of the highlights of my job working at Tara Books - a small publisher in Chennai, India - is meeting children who drop by to browse through our books. Chatting to three sisters (aged eight, 10 and 12) last week, the conversation turned to their most beloved characters: Hermione Granger, Charlie (of Chocolate Factory fame), Dick King Smith's Sophie, Violet Baudelaire from A Series of Unfortunate Events, Darrell from the Mallory Towers books, and the cartoon characters Calvin and Hobbes.What struck me about this list (apart from its western bias) was how varied the characters were: a mixture of male and female, heroic and flawed, traditional and unconventional. Very uplifting, especially in light of a recent study showing that male 'central' characters significantly outnumber females in children's books.\"I hadn't really considered the sex of characters in the books that the girls read,\" their mother told me, \"but thinking about it now I guess that they look for their own role models, and are drawn naturally to characters with qualities they admire.\"Being part of a feminist publishing house in India, I've had the chance to think a lot about the role of gender in children's books, and its significance in this part of the world. Stories that appear in the media about Indian women are often very negative, with the themes of forced marriage, the killing of unwanted female children, and low levels of female literacy coming up again and again. These are all very real issues, but they're not the whole story.On a day-to-day basis it's the more mundane signs of inequality that I notice. Walk down the street and tens of motorbikes will whizz past you, almost always driven by men, and more often than not with a woman perched side-saddle on the back. Eat in a local restaurant and you would be hard-pushed to find a female waiter, but go eat in someone's home, and it's a different story. It would be pretty unusual for the lady of the house to sit down and eat with you. She'll be in the kitchen putting the final touches to the next dish, or busy serving the food.And yet, the picture is even more complicated than this. This is a society in which women ARE visible in the workforce \u2013 from construction workers to engineers, doctors to street-side coconut sellers. However, in the words of my male colleague: \"Very, very few Indian men help with household chores. It is just not seen as their role, and this doesn't change if the wife has a job outside the home.\" This is exactly why it's so important that books show different possibilities to children growing up in India: female autorickshaw drivers, fathers who happily spend time in the kitchen preparing dinner, young girls who are not prepared to embody society's expectations of sensitivity and gentleness.One of my favourite Indian \"heroines\" is Jaya \u2013 the central character in Tara's book Trash, which tells the story of a group of ragpicker children living in Chennai. Enterprising, intelligent and brave, Jaya takes care of Velu, a young boy who arrives in the city having run away from his village. It is Jaya who finds Velu food, shows him how to work as a ragpicker, and protects him against adults looking to exploit him.\"Jaya showed me ways I could help other children and the environment\" says Muskan, a nine-year-old who goes to a school for underprivileged children in Mumbai. Neya, whose family live in a more comfortable suburb of Chennai, says: \"I'd like to have a friend like Jaya. She looks after Velu and understands how things work. I don't know anyone just like her, but my sister Maya says that I'm similar to her! I like that idea.\" These seemingly small adjustments in perception and expectation have the potential to bring about real change in the future. Literature may not have all the solutions, but a change in who tells the story, and from which point of view, can alter the way people think.Above all, the strength of literature lies in its subtlety \u2013 it doesn't need to preach, and I have never encountered any resistance to the unconventional characters who appear in our books, even from the most conservative of quarters. At the end of the day what we do is simple and hard to object to. We publish books with characters that demonstrate that people are not defined by whether they happen to be a boy or a girl. And for every child or parent who takes that message on board \u2013 whether consciously or unconsciously \u2013 we've won a small victory.", "tags": ["Teen books", "Children's books: 8-12 years", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "Postcard from India"},{"date": "2011-06-24T21:35:01Z", "country": "india", "content": "The first thing that happened was that an old man wearing a cap crowned with a peacock's claw, a hornbill's beak, a bearskin and a pair of knitting needles strolled up to the veranda of the government resthouse. \"You want snakes?\" he asked in broken Hindi, \"Come with me now.\"It was late afternoon. We had only just arrived from Assam, driving north for the last 100 miles up through increasingly thick jungle on a deteriorating dirt road, watching the last vestiges of modern India drop away. The garish advertising went first, the traffic next, then the plastic litter and jerry-built, stained concrete buildings. In their place came deep jungle and mountain rivers, interspersed with bamboo longhouses and people who stared. \"Are you ghosts?\" one man shouted. By the time we reached Leporiang village at the end of the track, we had slipped out of the 21st century and landed, hopeful and smiling, in something very different to the rest of the howling, honking mayhem that is modern India.The north-east of India has never made much of a contribution to the country's tourism phenomenon. There have been, for a start, plenty of political problems. Culturally more akin to Burma or China than Delhi or Mumbai, the region has been a minefield of independence movements and ethnic rivalries. And of these, Arunachal Pradesh is one of the most remote and inaccessible. It covers those jungled mountains that extend 350 miles eastwards from the Bhutanese border all the way to Burma. Claimed by China and largely ignored by Delhi, its steep-sided hills and rampaging rivers have barely been touched by the modern world. Our hosts, the Nyishi tribe, are a people whose knowledge of the lands beyond their jungles was, until half a century ago, largely based on slaving forays among the lowland Assamese. I had arrived as part of a scientific expedition, one that amateur naturalists can accompany, with the aim of collecting snake venom for anti-venom serum.This is not a frivolous or obscure project, as expedition leader Gerry Martin pointed out. \"There are about one million snake bites in India every year \u2013 50,000 of them fatal. Thousands of other people are incapacitated.\"The problem is that Indian snakes are not well studied. Scientists are just beginning to realise that venom is often location-specific and also that certain species may in fact be several distinct species. Our other expert, Rom Whitaker, American-born but brought up in India, is one of the greatest authorities on Indian snakes; he was quick to point out the limitations of current knowledge.\"Take some of the snakes we are looking for here: Medo's pit viper \u2013 we know almost nothing. It's probably a group of species. And Kaulback's pit viper \u2013 discovered in 1940 in south-west China and here in India only three years ago. It's a six-foot-long, highly venomous pit viper \u2013 that's about all we know.\" Rom's particular object of study is king cobras. \"They'll be here for sure.\"I'm no snake expert. In Africa once I was chased by a black mamba and the experience frightened the life out of me. I have very mixed feelings about this trip. But I am not going to have time to dwell on that. No sooner has the old man in the curious tribal hat mentioned his knowledge than we are on the march, heading out past the rice fields, following him down towards the river at the bottom of the valley.We cross the torrent on logs laid across boulders, then climb up to a large flat rock in a bracken-covered clearing. \"They live under there,\" says our informant. Immediately Gerry and his assistant Soham Mukherjee are on their knees shining torches into the cracks. \"Cobras,\" whispers Gerry, \"Big ones.\"A crowd of excited villagers is gathering. For them it is clearly a thrilling novelty that someone might want to catch a snake and not kill it. Rom is showing them identification photographs and they all pick out the monocled cobra as the species we are tackling. They are more interested, however, in another picture: Kaulback's pit viper. \"Oh, very bad!\" says one young man in English \u2013 a language as rare as anti-venom in these parts. \"We call him barta [meaning the deadliest of all snakes] and he is very bad. If you see one, you must kill it immediately or it will follow you home and kill someone in your longhouse.\"\"Where do you find them?\" asks Rom.\"In the jungle \u2013 mountain tops.\"Rom looks doubtful. \"People always think snakes are far away, but in my experience they are close, like this one.\"Gerry is calling him over to the boulder. He's placed a coat over one side of the crack, creating a dark, inviting escape hole. Now he's gently poking with a stick and waving the torch. \"He's coming. You ready, Rom?\"Rom jumps up next to the boulder, a long, hooked snake stick in hand. Some of the local children start running away, a few adults too. The snake, smooth, powerful and grey, shoots out of the hole over Rom's waiting snake hook. Rom grabs it by the tail and lifts it up with the hook. The cobra, furious, whips its body around hissing, but Rom skilfully controls it. Gerry has a canvas bag ready and the six-foot reptile is dropped inside. It immediately settles down, comforted by the darkness. \"They go into a kind of torpor,\" says Gerry. \"We'll keep him a week, then take venom before we release him.\"Walking back to the resthouse, it's getting dark and I'm close behind Rom at a tricky climb over a bamboo fence. Suddenly he stoops down and seizes a snake in the undergrowth and bags it. \"Himalayan keelback,\" he grins. The manouevre is completed so quickly I haven't even seen the creature.Later, this incident prompts me to ask if an untutored outsider can actually help much on an expedition like this.\"Honestly?\" he asks. \"Well, the money from paying guests helps a lot. This kind of expedition would not go ahead without it. And extra pairs of eyes and hands are genuinely useful.\"There is another benefit that I start to appreciate over the following days. Simply by showing an interest in wildlife, the visitor can help transform local attitudes. In Nyishi territory, the birds, for example, are hunted along with other creatures: the deer, the squirrels, the clouded leopard and bear. Tigers and elephants have all but disappeared, though a few old men tell us that they still exist in the most remote areas. Our interest triggers a response. Climbing up a steep hillside cleared for rice, one farmer is keen to show me a nest in his rain shelter, then points out the brilliant colours of a golden-throated barbet on a nearby tree and a pair of woodpeckers. The Nyishi here are hunters and they have an intimate and detailed knowledge of every living creature around them. It just never occurred to them that these might have any use other than food.That evening more people stop by the resthouse \u2013 as we are apparently the first Europeans ever to visit Leporiang, we are treated to a constant stream of curious visitors. They leaf through our books, stare at Gerry's laptop, ask questions: \"Why do you white people all look the same?\"One youth grins at our female expedition members, Janike and Hema, and announces, \"In my grandfather's time we would keep your women and thrash the men.\" We all laugh. I'm pretty sure that \"thrash\" is a euphemism for \"kill\".Almost every middle-aged man carries a sword, and some have bows and poison-tipped arrows in bearskin quivers. The youths scorn such things, preferring hair gel and sneakers. Women are less adorned and appear to do all the work: hoeing the impossibly steep hillsides, carrying vast loads of firewood and cooking our meals in the government resthouse \u2013 Leporiang's only accommodation for visitors. On Sunday they head for the church on the hill and throw themselves, babies on their backs, into frenetic bouts of mass hysteria and swooning. This is a culture that's diving headlong into its own unfathomable future.Among our visitors is one old man who saunters up the veranda and from a basket produces a dead snake \u2013 a gorgeous black, yellow and blue creature about five foot long. The effect on our experts is electric. Janike does a scale count \u2013 a diagnostic test in snakes \u2013 and declares the creature to be a Kaulback's. The old-timer has different ideas.\"It's not barta,\" he says, using the local name. \"It's taji. They are different.\"This is inexplicable, but our scientists do not discount it: knowledge of these snakes is so scarce that every morsel of local information is noted down.The next day we trek for miles, deep into the jungled mountains, to find where this snake lived. The trees are shaggy with orchids and ferns \u2013 entire ecosystems in themselves. The rivers are heaving with fish and tadpoles the size of my thumb. And the vegetation is laden with leeches \u2013 harmless, if unpleasant. We flick them away with increasing regularity. Inside a narrow valley, we locate the precise spot where the Kaulback's pit viper was killed, then we fan out and start searching. Three hours later we have not found any snakes and decide to return. Almost immediately, Soham spots movement in the undergrowth and pounces, triumphantly lifting up a small lizard. It's a long-legged creature with a gorgeous green and orange throat.\"Almost certainly a new species,\" declares Gerry. \"We found one last year in the next valley and no one has yet identified it.\" It seems a pretty good consolation for not finding the viper, but our guides are not satisfied. That night another old man in a Nyishi cap arrives to look at us. News of the strange foreigners who are interested in snakes has reached his longhouse some miles away. \"Search the river at night,\" he tells us. \"The overhanging trees are full of snakes.\"Naturally, a torch-lit search for venomous reptiles while waist-deep in a fast-flowing Himalayan river is a snake-hunter's idea of a good night out. After dinner we head off, myself rather reluctantly at the rear. We clamber down to the river below the village, Gerry and Rom leading the way. Not everyone, it has to be said, would enjoy such abnormal behaviour, but I am about to experience one of the highs that such determination can bring.The river is fast-flowing and 30 metres across. Soon the group is spread out, torches flaring off the trees and water. I find myself wading after Soham \u2013 he found the lizard, I reason, so maybe good luck is with him. We get separated from the others and come across two local men hunting fish with their hands. It's one of them who shouts the warning. \"Look up!\"On a branch 10 feet above the raging torrent is a coiled emerald-green serpent, its head the shape of a blunt arrowhead. We inch closer. The boulders are desperately slippery and I go down once, grateful I've packed my camera in a dry bag. The fisherman, eager to help, grabs the branch and shakes. The viper falls in the river among us. Soham coolly dives forward and grabs its tail, then gets it on his snake stick. We all shuffle and stumble towards a sandbank to get a closer look at this phenomenally beautiful creature, so perfect in every precisely defined scale and feature.Back at base camp we get further treats: Leporiang has only recently got electricity and there are a few bulbs in town, some of them on our veranda. The light has brought visitors: a huge pale moth, pressed to the door like a fallen moon, then another, as broad as my outstretched hand, with huge brown eyes on its furry wings.The days roll by and the end of the week arrives. It's time to inspect all our snakes \u2013 nine of them \u2013 to identify and photograph them. Unfortunately, I am going to miss the venom extraction as the necessary ice has not arrived from Assam, but we go through the identification. First is a green rat snake \u2013 non-venomous, so I have a go at handling it. Then come keelbacks \u2013 Himalayan and St John's \u2013 and two Medo's pit vipers, one a baby with its umbilical cord mark still visible (most vipers give birth rather than laying eggs). Next is a false cobra and a strange burrowing snake, more like a worm, really. Finally we come to the two cobras. Gerry prepares carefully. This is a big, fast animal and extremely venomous. As it drops out of the bag it's clearly angry, hissing loudly. Held by the tail, however, the snake rears up and spreads its hood.\"Monocled cobra,\" someone shouts confidently. But Rom is frowning. \"I'm not so sure. Let's do the scale counts.\"They place the snake's head in a clear plastic tube to prevent any mishaps and start the counts. Janike immediately announces that nothing fits the expected figures for a monocled cobra \u2013 a well-known Indian species. \"Check the tail-to-body ratio,\" she says.When the result is shouted out, Rom shakes his head. \"That's incredible. I mean, what is this thing?\"Further results only increase his consternation. The snake, meanwhile, is getting tired. They pop it back in the bag to rest. It feels like no one dares say it, so I do. \"New species of cobra?\"Gerry and Rom share a glance. \"Could be.\"\"It's a long process,\" explains Gerry. \"And the truth is we are probably looking at a local variation within the monocled species.\"That night, my last in Leporiang, I\u00a0wander out among the paddy fields, treading carefully on the narrow earthen bunds that separate the fields. Thousands of frogs are celebrating the arrival of the monsoons, and no doubt, so too are the vipers, the cobras and the keelbacks. On either side of me, I\u00a0can sense, rather than see, the jungle:\u00a0a dark shadow that rises up. I\u00a0had never expected that such a place could exist in modern India, a place so unknown and untouched. In this province the local government is planning dozens of new hydroelectric dams, and yet the contents of that astonishingly diverse jungle remain largely unknown and undiscovered. If paying guests can help scientific expeditions like ours to take place,\u00a0then the tourist dollar, I\u00a0reckon, will be well spent.Getting therePlanet Wildlife (0845 519 4948, planetwildlife.com) is running a 12-day trip to the Gujarat highlands in October led by Gerry Martin to see snakes, birds and Asiatic lions for \u00a31,648pp, excluding flights. Planet Wildlife can also arrange flights from London to Ahmedabad \u2013 ask for details. Emirates (emirates.com) has return flights via Dubai from \u00a3500 for travel in\u00a0October. Kevin travelled from York to\u00a0London with East Coast Trains (eastcoast.co.uk). Returns from \u00a320Further informationFor details of other Gerry Martin expeditions, see gerrymartin.in. To see king cobras in the UK, visit the King Cobra Sanctuary (07508 797010, kingcobrasanctuary.com) in Eastwood, near Nottingham. To get involved with reptile and amphibian conservation in the UK, contact Amphibian and Reptile Groups of the UK, arguk.org", "tags": ["India holidays", "Safaris", "Asia", "Wildlife holidays", "Travel", "Adventure travel", "Snakes"], "title": "A snake safari in India"},{"date": "2011-06-08T09:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The life of someone living with HIV in India today is better compared with a few years ago, thanks to improved healthcare, provision of antiretrovirals (ARVs) and treatment for infections.People are living longer and healthier lives, but stigma and discrimination remain an issue in communities and within healthcare facilities. It is definitely worse for female sex workers, men who have sex with men (MSM, men who do not identify as homosexual or gay and are almost always married), transgendered people and hijras living with HIV. There is a real need to address the attitudes of healthcare providers and the rampant stigma against these people. It particularly hampers their access to treatment.Many people with HIV live far from their nearest ARV centre. The distance, time and money required to access treatment, and the fact that the services are not tailored to meet the needs of the communities, are huge challenges. Also, there's virtually nothing in terms of psychosocial support for those living with HIV.As an MSM living with HIV, I face challenges to access healthcare and feel that I don't have the same opportunities or social status as others. There is a lack of work opportunities for MSM, transgendered people and hijras living with HIV, which makes them more vulnerable and sometimes leads them to into sex work. Lack of work makes them feel even more isolated and worthless which can create mental health issues.Meeting the goal of MDG6 is a big challenge in India, though we have made progress. India has successfully started developing strategies with active community involvement and participation. HIV incidence in some states has also started declining, according to the limited data we have.Political and donor commitment is crucial. The goal of the national programme to halt and reverse the epidemic is far from achieved.The contribution from the international community (donors, governments, foundations and civil society partners) has helped India in different ways to control the epidemic. At this crucial juncture, the international community needs to continue to support programmes for prevention as well as care and support for those living with HIV.The international community can also contribute to the Indian response through policy and advocacy, and constant monitoring to ensure that the human rights of those affected by the epidemic are being adequately protected.\u2022 Vijay Nair works with Alliance India at its Andhra Pradesh office. He is also the director of the Asia Pacific Coalition on MSM and president of Nipasha+, a national network of MSM, transgenders and hijras living with HIV and Aids", "tags": ["Global development", "India", "World news"], "title": "Living with HIV in India"},{"date": "2011-06-21T16:37:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Google's now infamous Street View camera cars only set to work on the streets of Bangalore last month, but already Indian authorities have ordered Google to suspend taking images because it has not secured the necessary security clearance.Google has said that after Bangalore, it plans to map all major cities in India \u2013 the 27th country in which the firm plans to launch Street View. As well as cars, Google had been using some tricycles with Street View's chunky camera equipment attached.Local police were concerned that Bangalore has several military institutions, and a statement given by Google to the AFP confirmed that Google had suspended the operation following a letter from Bangalore's police commissioner.Street View concerns in developing countries are significantly different to obstacles Google has hit recently in Germany and Switzerland, which were about privacy and data retention. Street View Brazil reportedly snapped dead bodies, while in India there are also sensitivities in the wake of the Mumbai attacks and from several bombings in Bangalore itself.", "tags": ["Digital media", "Media", "Google Street View", "Google", "Technology", "India", "World news"], "title": "Google Street View cameras halted in India"},{"date": "2011-06-14T21:00:01Z", "country": "india", "content": "Britain should continue to give aid to India until 2015 to ensure the country meets the millennium development goals (MDGs), a UK cross-party group of MPs recommends.In a report published by the House of Commons international development committee on Tuesday evening, MPs said that despite India's huge economic growth over the last 25 years, average per capita income is one-twentieth of that in the UK, and more than 400 million people still live in poverty. According to the UN MDG monitor, more than a third of India's population live on less than $1.25 a day.The committee called for future aid to be targeted to improve sanitation, tackle malnutrition and challenge social exclusion. But it also recommended that after 2015 the UK's aid relationship with India should \"fundamentally change\", suggesting the Department for International Development (DfID) begins drawing up an exit strategy.Aid to India has proved a contentious issue. Andrew Mitchell, the international development secretary, has defended his decision to give \u00a3280m a year over the next four years to a country that is the 11th largest economy in the world against critics who view its economic development and its billion-dollar space programme as evidence it does not need aid. Mitchell has already said aid to India until 2015 will be targeted on the poorest, with half the money spent on pro-poor private sector development.The committee said it had examined the arguments for and against aid. Its chairman, Malcolm Bruce, said: \"The test of whether the UK should continue to give aid to India is whether that aid makes a distinct, value-added contribution to poverty reduction which would not otherwise happen. We believe most UK aid does this.\"He added: \"The Indian government has primary responsibility for poverty reduction. It has put up taxes and increased its social spending, but the poverty there is on such an extreme scale that it will take many years for India to achieve internationally agreed millennium development goals. Poverty levels remain high in some parts of India, and these are states where UK funding is targeted\"The committee found that the Indian government invested \"significant funds\" in social programmes for health, education and employment.The report noted that India's space programme was often used as an example to illustrate the country's wealth, but MPs insisted the programme also delivered socio-economic benefits, such as mapping weather patterns and the extent of floods.The committee is calling on DfID to redirect resources for India from health to sanitation and recommended the department's nutrition programme becomes a central plank of its funding to tackle malnutrition.The committee also wants the department to do more to challenge discrimination against certain castes, ethnic or religious groups and people living with disabilities.Robin Greenwood, Christian Aid's head of Asia, welcomed MPs focus on discrimination. \"Christian Aid's experience in India is that the exclusions from society of whole groups - Dalits, tribal people, religious minorities and also women - are the most important causes of continuing extreme poverty in India,\" he said.A report from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), also published on Tuesday, found that poverty in India has fallen faster than in many other emerging economies over the last 10 years, although it said the government needed to focus on more pro-poor policies, including strengthening the welfare system and improving access to healthcare. At 1% of GDP, India's health spending is among the lowest in the world.The OECD report highlighted India's high rates of school drop-outs, despite education being a government priority, and called for better regulation and funding, more incentives for teachers, and more student loans for higher education.", "tags": ["Aid", "Global development", "India", "World news"], "title": "British MPs back aid to India | Liz Ford"},{"date": "2011-06-08T09:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Life is an uphill struggle for the enormous population of people living with HIV in India. We cannot look at HIV in isolation, as it is so closely related to poverty. More than 300 million people, about one in four Indians, live below the poverty line. A vast population live in abject poverty on less than $1 per day.Progress has certainly been made for people living with HIV, as the government now provides free antiretroviral treatment. But people living with HIV also need food, acceptance, care, good mental health and opportunities. But too often they are marginalised and very poor, lacking the basic ingredients needed to lift themselves out of their situation.I believe the present socio-political-economic environment is the biggest challenge for people living with HIV in India. Corruption and a lack of accountability have pushed people with HIV to the fringes of our society. This leaves a handful of faithful NGOs and individuals reaching out to millions of people.Walk with me through the streets and slums of Mumbai and I will show you people living with HIV and Aids who are suffering silently, not knowing where their next meal will come from or whether they will get a decent funeral. People in India are not dying of Aids, they are dying of hunger, stigma and rejection.India has been combating HIV for more than two decades now and has done well in improving the number of people accessing treatment. In many ways the government, with much support from NGOs, has achieved a slowdown in the spread of HIV. Also, fewer people are dying each year from Aids-related illnesses. But the challenge remains enormous.From my experience, I know that people living in utter poverty on the margins of the society, those most vulnerable to HIV, are not just statistics. They are people, valued human beings, and it is important that we treat them as such. They have opinions and beliefs that should be valued.No one wants to live with HIV. No one chooses to be discriminated against or ostracised by their society. If people are valued, then I believe there will be access to drugs, to quality care and the comfort they need. Compassionate work without valuing others is a mere framework with no substance. Valuing others will make every other task seem effortless.", "tags": ["Global development", "India", "World news"], "title": "Living with HIV in Mumbai, India"},{"date": "2011-06-02T14:56:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Union leaders have attacked a Tory-led council over its involvement in the \"export\" of up to 100 jobs to India, amid warnings that the move could be \"the tip of the iceberg\" that could see thousands of taxpayer-funded jobs go overseas.Unite claimed Birmingham city council, a Conservative-Liberal Democrat run authority led by the Conservative Mike Whitby, is the first town hall in the country involved in plans to move jobs to India for work paid for by taxpayers. A redundancy notice for 70 IT posts has already been served.Officials said they feared more council jobs in Birmingham and other local authorities could also go abroad as private companies delivering public services prepare to go to \"any length\" to cut costs for profit.Another union cited jobs being \"shipped out\" as it launched a strike ballot of nearly 10,000 members at Birmingham city council over job cuts, workers' pay and conditions.Unison is balloting against plans known as the Birmingham contract, which it claims breaks away from nationally agreed terms and conditions, abolishes payments for weekend and out-of-hours working and weakens workers' rights in grievances and disciplinaries. It said the \"contract\" will have a disproportionate impact on low-paid women workers.The union said that, to add \"insult to injury\", staff who face redundancy at the arms-length IT company are being told they must train up their replacements in India before they go.But the council said the new staff contracts were designed to make the authority \"fit for the challenges facing the public sector\" and contribute to the budgetary savings it has to make.Alan Rudge, the cabinet member for equalities and human resources, said: \"There is a clear need to bring our organisation into line with other leading employers, and the new Birmingham contract will make the council more resilient to future pressures through the reduction in costs and the introduction of broad job groups.\"Service Birmingham, a joint venture between the outsourcing firm Capita and the council, confirmed it has already transferred 17 \"back office\" IT support roles to India and has issued formal notice of redundancy plans for local workers ahead of the transfer of a further 38 roles in the summer.A further 45 jobs will be transferred to India later in the year if the first two phases of transfer go well, according to a spokesman.In a statement, Service Birmingham said: \"It is important to emphasise this is a very small element of the work we do for the council, and we remain absolutely committed to our Birmingham workforce.\"The Unite national officer, Peter Allenson, said: \"It beggars belief that council workers will be forced to train workers from overseas to do their jobs so Capita and Birmingham council can lift and shift them abroad.\"Unite is demanding that Birmingham city council halts its plans. We fear this could be just the tip of the iceberg and other councils could follow suit. Thousands of public sector jobs could go. Once these jobs go, they will not come back.\"He added: \"The blame lies firmly with private companies prepared to go to any length to cut costs for profit and this Tory-led council which is encouraging them to get away with it.\"A council spokesman insisted the transfer of jobs to India \"is a story about Service Birmingham\" and referred all comments to its spokesman. The council has a one-third stake in the venture.Capita, through the Service Birmingham company, has the contract for the council's IT and call centre services until 2021. It is also working on the authority's business transformation programme, which has been running since 2005 and aims to save the council \u00a31bn in costs by 2016.Despite the planned redundancies, Service Birmingham said it was committed to increasing local workforce numbers. \"Offshore staff will only ever represent a fraction of Service Birmingham's 1,100 workforce,\" the statement said.\"In addition, we will honour our jobs promise to employ an additional 520 people in the Birmingham area by 1 April 2011, 720 by 1 April 2013 and 800 by the end of 2016.\"The council plans to cut \u00a3300m from the city budget by 2015 as well as shed 7,116 jobs, which Unison says represents 37% of the council workforce.The union claims that, once part-time jobs are factored in, the total job losses increase to 10,000, which will have a \"devastating impact on council services\".Mark New, a regional organiser for the union, said: \"Members are upset and angry and Unison is asking them to take a stand against these savage cuts. To add insult to injury, the council plans to outsource more jobs to India.\"The massive job cuts, the pay freeze and privatisation, will leave the council struggling to provide decent services to people in Birmingham.\"Birmingham council is cutting back too hard and too fast. The cuts will devastate whole communities and the local economy, as well as the lives of council workers and their families.\"", "tags": ["Politics", "Local government", "Society", "Public sector cuts", "Public services policy", "Public finance", "Conservatives", "Liberal Democrats", "UK news", "Birmingham"], "title": "Tory-led council outsources jobs to India"},{"date": "2011-05-10T19:59:01Z", "country": "india", "content": "Some drift towards their destiny. For others, it all hinges on a single moment. It was like that for me, says Mihir Bose. Now 64, he travelled to Britain from India to study more than 40 years ago and has since moved back and forth, exploiting his status as a returning resident. It seemed the ideal arrangement for a young man pulled between dreams of making a name for himself here and a hugely privileged, less romantic lifestyle in India. And it was ideal, until an immigration officer at Heathrow said: \"If you want to live here, live here.\" \"I had to decide; do I go back to India and continue as an accountant and give up being a writer, or stay? I thought if I went back, I would always kick myself.\" So he stayed, to the annoyance of his father, an industrialist who envisaged a life for his son more lucrative than journalism.It's been some career: 22 books, a high-profile column in the Daily Telegraph and a pioneering appointment as the BBC's first sports editor. But that wasn't the point. \"He never understood why I left such a privileged life,\" says Mihir. \"And he missed me not being there. I regret not telling him that I loved him. But I have never regretted the choice I made.\"We're having a sad debate now about migration, says Mihir. All pound signs and statistics. \"What you don't hear are the personal stories.\" So he's telling his story in words and music on the east London stage next week. And one point he's keen to make is that when we focus on the numbers served up by Migration- Watch and the benefit scrounger stories, we belittle ourselves. \"I didn't come for money. I came for values. I grew up on Wodehouse and Just William. I could have made more money where I was. There was something else.\"We forget the something else, he says. \"The freedoms and opportunities so obvious that we take them for granted. We forget the values. So we scarcely believe that anyone else might prioritise them.\"Mihir's dad died in 1984 and last year an ensuing ritual took the writer from west London to the banks of the Ganges. He wore his panama hat: a symbol of the choice he made, and of his membership of the MCC.", "tags": ["Media", "India"], "title": "Hideously diverse Britain: a passage from India"},{"date": "2011-05-10T07:30:04Z", "country": "india", "content": "Osama bin Laden's killing is a potential turning point for India-Pakistan relations. The Indian government reacted to the news with an instant \"I told you so\" \u2013 the discovery of Bin Laden's safe house next door to the military academy in Abbottabad vindicates India's longstanding assessment that Pakistan has become a haven for jihadi extremism and the fountainhead of terrorism. The United States committed a historic blunder in trusting Islamabad. It failed to see the links between various pro-al-Qaida/Taliban groups and the Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate (ISI). This was of a piece with the official Indian reaction to the 9/11 attacks, which emphasised almost gloatingly that India had long suffered Islamist terrorism exactly the way the US did in 2001, but the world ignored this.Anti-Pakistan Indian military analysts celebrated the reassertion of the United States' hard power and clamoured for Indian \"covert operations\" to take out the Pakistan-based leadership of groups\u00a0like Lashkar-e-Taiba, implicated in the November 2008 Mumbai attacks. Pakistan responded by warning that its\u00a0retaliation would produce a\u00a0\"terrible\u00a0catastrophe\".Mercifully the bellicose mood is now giving way in India to more sober approaches favouring a continuation of the dialogue with Pakistan that began in February. This shift springs from the realisation that suspension of talks for two years didn't force Pakistan to act resolutely to dismantle the domestic \"terrorist infrastructure\"; a new strategy of engagement is necessary.New Delhi's willingness to explore the possibility of promoting bilateral trade, relaxing visa restrictions and resolving long-festering boundary disputes is welcome. That said, India has still not developed a vision or strategy to address the sizeable pro-peace constituency that exists in Pakistan, which would like to see Pakistan become a stable, moderate democracy and full civilian control to be established over the army and the ISI.This constituency is likely to become stronger as Pakistan emerges from confused and contradictory responses to the traumatic discovery of Bin Laden's sanctuary and the duplicitous role of the intelligence service, the ISI, regarding jihadi groups. Bin Laden's killing has put the army on the defensive.A crucial condition for strengthening Pakistan's civilian government and taming (some would say dismantling) the ISI is removal of the veto power the army wields over policy towards India and Afghanistan. The first is Kashmir-obsessed, and sees India as an\u00a0implacable enemy with whom peaceful coexistence is impossible.As for Afghanistan, the Pakistan army sees it as vital to achieving \"strategic depth\" with which to defend itself against Indian \"aggression\". It also denies India's historical ties with Afghanistan and the utility of India's aid programme, which has earned it tremendous popular goodwill.India can and should take the initiative in breaking the logjam through unilateral steps such as opening up its market unconditionally to Pakistani goods and services; encouraging joint ventures in energy (especially renewables); IT, banking and industry; a liberal visa regime that dismantles existing restrictions such as city-specific short-term visas; and promoting tourism and cultural and educational exchanges.Simultaneously India should resume its \"back channel\" dialogue on Kashmir, which produced dramatic gains until it was abandoned in 2007, including a tentative agreement on porous borders, gradual demilitarisation and increasing autonomy and self-rule for various sub-regions of undivided Jammu and Kashmir. This will gain credibility and momentum if India substantially withdraws its military presence in the Kashmir Valley.Pakistan's two-track policy of hunting with the American hounds and running with the jihadi hare has failed. It has increased extremist violence and caused 30,000 civilian deaths. It has brought Pakistan international disgrace. This approach must be replaced by a strengthening of the civilian government and a determined fight against extremism. The reform won't succeed unless India radically alters its Pakistan policy and is seen as a potential ally which has a huge stake in a peaceful, terror-free and prosperous subcontinent. ", "tags": ["US news", "World news", "US foreign policy", "Osama bin Laden", "India", "Pakistan", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "India and Pakistan's hope after Osama | Praful Bidwai"},{"date": "2011-05-17T10:17:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "One of the highlights of my job working at Tara Books - a small publisher in Chennai, India - is meeting children who drop by to browse through our books. Chatting to three sisters (aged eight, 10 and 12) last week, the conversation turned to their most beloved characters: Hermione Granger, Charlie (of Chocolate Factory fame), Dick King Smith's Sophie, Violet Baudelaire from A Series of Unfortunate Events, Darrell from the Mallory Towers books, and the cartoon characters Calvin and Hobbes.What struck me about this list (apart from its western bias) was how varied the characters were: a mixture of male and female, heroic and flawed, traditional and unconventional. Very uplifting, especially in light of a recent study showing that male 'central' characters significantly outnumber females in children's books.\"I hadn't really considered the sex of characters in the books that the girls read,\" their mother told me, \"but thinking about it now I guess that they look for their own role models, and are drawn naturally to characters with qualities they admire.\"Being part of a feminist publishing house in India, I've had the chance to think a lot about the role of gender in children's books, and its significance in this part of the world. Stories that appear in the media about Indian women are often very negative, with the themes of forced marriage, the killing of unwanted female children, and low levels of female literacy coming up again and again. These are all very real issues, but they're not the whole story.On a day-to-day basis it's the more mundane signs of inequality that I notice. Walk down the street and tens of motorbikes will whizz past you, almost always driven by men, and more often than not with a woman perched side-saddle on the back. Eat in a local restaurant and you would be hard-pushed to find a female waiter, but go eat in someone's home, and it's a different story. It would be pretty unusual for the lady of the house to sit down and eat with you. She'll be in the kitchen putting the final touches to the next dish, or busy serving the food.And yet, the picture is even more complicated than this. This is a society in which women ARE visible in the workforce \u2013 from construction workers to engineers, doctors to street-side coconut sellers. However, in the words of my male colleague: \"Very, very few Indian men help with household chores. It is just not seen as their role, and this doesn't change if the wife has a job outside the home.\" This is exactly why it's so important that books show different possibilities to children growing up in India: female autorickshaw drivers, fathers who happily spend time in the kitchen preparing dinner, young girls who are not prepared to embody society's expectations of sensitivity and gentleness.One of my favourite Indian \"heroines\" is Jaya \u2013 the central character in Tara's book Trash, which tells the story of a group of ragpicker children living in Chennai. Enterprising, intelligent and brave, Jaya takes care of Velu, a young boy who arrives in the city having run away from his village. It is Jaya who finds Velu food, shows him how to work as a ragpicker, and protects him against adults looking to exploit him.\"Jaya showed me ways I could help other children and the environment\" says Muskan, a nine-year-old who goes to a school for underprivileged children in Mumbai. Neya, whose family live in a more comfortable suburb of Chennai, says: \"I'd like to have a friend like Jaya. She looks after Velu and understands how things work. I don't know anyone just like her, but my sister Maya says that I'm similar to her! I like that idea.\" These seemingly small adjustments in perception and expectation have the potential to bring about real change in the future. Literature may not have all the solutions, but a change in who tells the story, and from which point of view, can alter the way people think.Above all, the strength of literature lies in its subtlety \u2013 it doesn't need to preach, and I have never encountered any resistance to the unconventional characters who appear in our books, even from the most conservative of quarters. At the end of the day what we do is simple and hard to object to. We publish books with characters that demonstrate that people are not defined by whether they happen to be a boy or a girl. And for every child or parent who takes that message on board \u2013 whether consciously or unconsciously \u2013 we've won a small victory.", "tags": ["Teen books", "Children's books: 8-12 years", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "Postcard from India"},{"date": "2011-06-24T21:35:01Z", "country": "india", "content": "The first thing that happened was that an old man wearing a cap crowned with a peacock's claw, a hornbill's beak, a bearskin and a pair of knitting needles strolled up to the veranda of the government resthouse. \"You want snakes?\" he asked in broken Hindi, \"Come with me now.\"It was late afternoon. We had only just arrived from Assam, driving north for the last 100 miles up through increasingly thick jungle on a deteriorating dirt road, watching the last vestiges of modern India drop away. The garish advertising went first, the traffic next, then the plastic litter and jerry-built, stained concrete buildings. In their place came deep jungle and mountain rivers, interspersed with bamboo longhouses and people who stared. \"Are you ghosts?\" one man shouted. By the time we reached Leporiang village at the end of the track, we had slipped out of the 21st century and landed, hopeful and smiling, in something very different to the rest of the howling, honking mayhem that is modern India.The north-east of India has never made much of a contribution to the country's tourism phenomenon. There have been, for a start, plenty of political problems. Culturally more akin to Burma or China than Delhi or Mumbai, the region has been a minefield of independence movements and ethnic rivalries. And of these, Arunachal Pradesh is one of the most remote and inaccessible. It covers those jungled mountains that extend 350 miles eastwards from the Bhutanese border all the way to Burma. Claimed by China and largely ignored by Delhi, its steep-sided hills and rampaging rivers have barely been touched by the modern world. Our hosts, the Nyishi tribe, are a people whose knowledge of the lands beyond their jungles was, until half a century ago, largely based on slaving forays among the lowland Assamese. I had arrived as part of a scientific expedition, one that amateur naturalists can accompany, with the aim of collecting snake venom for anti-venom serum.This is not a frivolous or obscure project, as expedition leader Gerry Martin pointed out. \"There are about one million snake bites in India every year \u2013 50,000 of them fatal. Thousands of other people are incapacitated.\"The problem is that Indian snakes are not well studied. Scientists are just beginning to realise that venom is often location-specific and also that certain species may in fact be several distinct species. Our other expert, Rom Whitaker, American-born but brought up in India, is one of the greatest authorities on Indian snakes; he was quick to point out the limitations of current knowledge.\"Take some of the snakes we are looking for here: Medo's pit viper \u2013 we know almost nothing. It's probably a group of species. And Kaulback's pit viper \u2013 discovered in 1940 in south-west China and here in India only three years ago. It's a six-foot-long, highly venomous pit viper \u2013 that's about all we know.\" Rom's particular object of study is king cobras. \"They'll be here for sure.\"I'm no snake expert. In Africa once I was chased by a black mamba and the experience frightened the life out of me. I have very mixed feelings about this trip. But I am not going to have time to dwell on that. No sooner has the old man in the curious tribal hat mentioned his knowledge than we are on the march, heading out past the rice fields, following him down towards the river at the bottom of the valley.We cross the torrent on logs laid across boulders, then climb up to a large flat rock in a bracken-covered clearing. \"They live under there,\" says our informant. Immediately Gerry and his assistant Soham Mukherjee are on their knees shining torches into the cracks. \"Cobras,\" whispers Gerry, \"Big ones.\"A crowd of excited villagers is gathering. For them it is clearly a thrilling novelty that someone might want to catch a snake and not kill it. Rom is showing them identification photographs and they all pick out the monocled cobra as the species we are tackling. They are more interested, however, in another picture: Kaulback's pit viper. \"Oh, very bad!\" says one young man in English \u2013 a language as rare as anti-venom in these parts. \"We call him barta [meaning the deadliest of all snakes] and he is very bad. If you see one, you must kill it immediately or it will follow you home and kill someone in your longhouse.\"\"Where do you find them?\" asks Rom.\"In the jungle \u2013 mountain tops.\"Rom looks doubtful. \"People always think snakes are far away, but in my experience they are close, like this one.\"Gerry is calling him over to the boulder. He's placed a coat over one side of the crack, creating a dark, inviting escape hole. Now he's gently poking with a stick and waving the torch. \"He's coming. You ready, Rom?\"Rom jumps up next to the boulder, a long, hooked snake stick in hand. Some of the local children start running away, a few adults too. The snake, smooth, powerful and grey, shoots out of the hole over Rom's waiting snake hook. Rom grabs it by the tail and lifts it up with the hook. The cobra, furious, whips its body around hissing, but Rom skilfully controls it. Gerry has a canvas bag ready and the six-foot reptile is dropped inside. It immediately settles down, comforted by the darkness. \"They go into a kind of torpor,\" says Gerry. \"We'll keep him a week, then take venom before we release him.\"Walking back to the resthouse, it's getting dark and I'm close behind Rom at a tricky climb over a bamboo fence. Suddenly he stoops down and seizes a snake in the undergrowth and bags it. \"Himalayan keelback,\" he grins. The manouevre is completed so quickly I haven't even seen the creature.Later, this incident prompts me to ask if an untutored outsider can actually help much on an expedition like this.\"Honestly?\" he asks. \"Well, the money from paying guests helps a lot. This kind of expedition would not go ahead without it. And extra pairs of eyes and hands are genuinely useful.\"There is another benefit that I start to appreciate over the following days. Simply by showing an interest in wildlife, the visitor can help transform local attitudes. In Nyishi territory, the birds, for example, are hunted along with other creatures: the deer, the squirrels, the clouded leopard and bear. Tigers and elephants have all but disappeared, though a few old men tell us that they still exist in the most remote areas. Our interest triggers a response. Climbing up a steep hillside cleared for rice, one farmer is keen to show me a nest in his rain shelter, then points out the brilliant colours of a golden-throated barbet on a nearby tree and a pair of woodpeckers. The Nyishi here are hunters and they have an intimate and detailed knowledge of every living creature around them. It just never occurred to them that these might have any use other than food.That evening more people stop by the resthouse \u2013 as we are apparently the first Europeans ever to visit Leporiang, we are treated to a constant stream of curious visitors. They leaf through our books, stare at Gerry's laptop, ask questions: \"Why do you white people all look the same?\"One youth grins at our female expedition members, Janike and Hema, and announces, \"In my grandfather's time we would keep your women and thrash the men.\" We all laugh. I'm pretty sure that \"thrash\" is a euphemism for \"kill\".Almost every middle-aged man carries a sword, and some have bows and poison-tipped arrows in bearskin quivers. The youths scorn such things, preferring hair gel and sneakers. Women are less adorned and appear to do all the work: hoeing the impossibly steep hillsides, carrying vast loads of firewood and cooking our meals in the government resthouse \u2013 Leporiang's only accommodation for visitors. On Sunday they head for the church on the hill and throw themselves, babies on their backs, into frenetic bouts of mass hysteria and swooning. This is a culture that's diving headlong into its own unfathomable future.Among our visitors is one old man who saunters up the veranda and from a basket produces a dead snake \u2013 a gorgeous black, yellow and blue creature about five foot long. The effect on our experts is electric. Janike does a scale count \u2013 a diagnostic test in snakes \u2013 and declares the creature to be a Kaulback's. The old-timer has different ideas.\"It's not barta,\" he says, using the local name. \"It's taji. They are different.\"This is inexplicable, but our scientists do not discount it: knowledge of these snakes is so scarce that every morsel of local information is noted down.The next day we trek for miles, deep into the jungled mountains, to find where this snake lived. The trees are shaggy with orchids and ferns \u2013 entire ecosystems in themselves. The rivers are heaving with fish and tadpoles the size of my thumb. And the vegetation is laden with leeches \u2013 harmless, if unpleasant. We flick them away with increasing regularity. Inside a narrow valley, we locate the precise spot where the Kaulback's pit viper was killed, then we fan out and start searching. Three hours later we have not found any snakes and decide to return. Almost immediately, Soham spots movement in the undergrowth and pounces, triumphantly lifting up a small lizard. It's a long-legged creature with a gorgeous green and orange throat.\"Almost certainly a new species,\" declares Gerry. \"We found one last year in the next valley and no one has yet identified it.\" It seems a pretty good consolation for not finding the viper, but our guides are not satisfied. That night another old man in a Nyishi cap arrives to look at us. News of the strange foreigners who are interested in snakes has reached his longhouse some miles away. \"Search the river at night,\" he tells us. \"The overhanging trees are full of snakes.\"Naturally, a torch-lit search for venomous reptiles while waist-deep in a fast-flowing Himalayan river is a snake-hunter's idea of a good night out. After dinner we head off, myself rather reluctantly at the rear. We clamber down to the river below the village, Gerry and Rom leading the way. Not everyone, it has to be said, would enjoy such abnormal behaviour, but I am about to experience one of the highs that such determination can bring.The river is fast-flowing and 30 metres across. Soon the group is spread out, torches flaring off the trees and water. I find myself wading after Soham \u2013 he found the lizard, I reason, so maybe good luck is with him. We get separated from the others and come across two local men hunting fish with their hands. It's one of them who shouts the warning. \"Look up!\"On a branch 10 feet above the raging torrent is a coiled emerald-green serpent, its head the shape of a blunt arrowhead. We inch closer. The boulders are desperately slippery and I go down once, grateful I've packed my camera in a dry bag. The fisherman, eager to help, grabs the branch and shakes. The viper falls in the river among us. Soham coolly dives forward and grabs its tail, then gets it on his snake stick. We all shuffle and stumble towards a sandbank to get a closer look at this phenomenally beautiful creature, so perfect in every precisely defined scale and feature.Back at base camp we get further treats: Leporiang has only recently got electricity and there are a few bulbs in town, some of them on our veranda. The light has brought visitors: a huge pale moth, pressed to the door like a fallen moon, then another, as broad as my outstretched hand, with huge brown eyes on its furry wings.The days roll by and the end of the week arrives. It's time to inspect all our snakes \u2013 nine of them \u2013 to identify and photograph them. Unfortunately, I am going to miss the venom extraction as the necessary ice has not arrived from Assam, but we go through the identification. First is a green rat snake \u2013 non-venomous, so I have a go at handling it. Then come keelbacks \u2013 Himalayan and St John's \u2013 and two Medo's pit vipers, one a baby with its umbilical cord mark still visible (most vipers give birth rather than laying eggs). Next is a false cobra and a strange burrowing snake, more like a worm, really. Finally we come to the two cobras. Gerry prepares carefully. This is a big, fast animal and extremely venomous. As it drops out of the bag it's clearly angry, hissing loudly. Held by the tail, however, the snake rears up and spreads its hood.\"Monocled cobra,\" someone shouts confidently. But Rom is frowning. \"I'm not so sure. Let's do the scale counts.\"They place the snake's head in a clear plastic tube to prevent any mishaps and start the counts. Janike immediately announces that nothing fits the expected figures for a monocled cobra \u2013 a well-known Indian species. \"Check the tail-to-body ratio,\" she says.When the result is shouted out, Rom shakes his head. \"That's incredible. I mean, what is this thing?\"Further results only increase his consternation. The snake, meanwhile, is getting tired. They pop it back in the bag to rest. It feels like no one dares say it, so I do. \"New species of cobra?\"Gerry and Rom share a glance. \"Could be.\"\"It's a long process,\" explains Gerry. \"And the truth is we are probably looking at a local variation within the monocled species.\"That night, my last in Leporiang, I\u00a0wander out among the paddy fields, treading carefully on the narrow earthen bunds that separate the fields. Thousands of frogs are celebrating the arrival of the monsoons, and no doubt, so too are the vipers, the cobras and the keelbacks. On either side of me, I\u00a0can sense, rather than see, the jungle:\u00a0a dark shadow that rises up. I\u00a0had never expected that such a place could exist in modern India, a place so unknown and untouched. In this province the local government is planning dozens of new hydroelectric dams, and yet the contents of that astonishingly diverse jungle remain largely unknown and undiscovered. If paying guests can help scientific expeditions like ours to take place,\u00a0then the tourist dollar, I\u00a0reckon, will be well spent.Getting therePlanet Wildlife (0845 519 4948, planetwildlife.com) is running a 12-day trip to the Gujarat highlands in October led by Gerry Martin to see snakes, birds and Asiatic lions for \u00a31,648pp, excluding flights. Planet Wildlife can also arrange flights from London to Ahmedabad \u2013 ask for details. Emirates (emirates.com) has return flights via Dubai from \u00a3500 for travel in\u00a0October. Kevin travelled from York to\u00a0London with East Coast Trains (eastcoast.co.uk). Returns from \u00a320Further informationFor details of other Gerry Martin expeditions, see gerrymartin.in. To see king cobras in the UK, visit the King Cobra Sanctuary (07508 797010, kingcobrasanctuary.com) in Eastwood, near Nottingham. To get involved with reptile and amphibian conservation in the UK, contact Amphibian and Reptile Groups of the UK, arguk.org", "tags": ["India holidays", "Safaris", "Asia", "Wildlife holidays", "Travel", "Adventure travel", "Snakes"], "title": "A snake safari in India"},{"date": "2011-06-08T09:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "The life of someone living with HIV in India today is better compared with a few years ago, thanks to improved healthcare, provision of antiretrovirals (ARVs) and treatment for infections.People are living longer and healthier lives, but stigma and discrimination remain an issue in communities and within healthcare facilities. It is definitely worse for female sex workers, men who have sex with men (MSM, men who do not identify as homosexual or gay and are almost always married), transgendered people and hijras living with HIV. There is a real need to address the attitudes of healthcare providers and the rampant stigma against these people. It particularly hampers their access to treatment.Many people with HIV live far from their nearest ARV centre. The distance, time and money required to access treatment, and the fact that the services are not tailored to meet the needs of the communities, are huge challenges. Also, there's virtually nothing in terms of psychosocial support for those living with HIV.As an MSM living with HIV, I face challenges to access healthcare and feel that I don't have the same opportunities or social status as others. There is a lack of work opportunities for MSM, transgendered people and hijras living with HIV, which makes them more vulnerable and sometimes leads them to into sex work. Lack of work makes them feel even more isolated and worthless which can create mental health issues.Meeting the goal of MDG6 is a big challenge in India, though we have made progress. India has successfully started developing strategies with active community involvement and participation. HIV incidence in some states has also started declining, according to the limited data we have.Political and donor commitment is crucial. The goal of the national programme to halt and reverse the epidemic is far from achieved.The contribution from the international community (donors, governments, foundations and civil society partners) has helped India in different ways to control the epidemic. At this crucial juncture, the international community needs to continue to support programmes for prevention as well as care and support for those living with HIV.The international community can also contribute to the Indian response through policy and advocacy, and constant monitoring to ensure that the human rights of those affected by the epidemic are being adequately protected.\u2022 Vijay Nair works with Alliance India at its Andhra Pradesh office. He is also the director of the Asia Pacific Coalition on MSM and president of Nipasha+, a national network of MSM, transgenders and hijras living with HIV and Aids", "tags": ["Global development", "India", "World news"], "title": "Living with HIV in India"},{"date": "2011-06-21T16:37:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Google's now infamous Street View camera cars only set to work on the streets of Bangalore last month, but already Indian authorities have ordered Google to suspend taking images because it has not secured the necessary security clearance.Google has said that after Bangalore, it plans to map all major cities in India \u2013 the 27th country in which the firm plans to launch Street View. As well as cars, Google had been using some tricycles with Street View's chunky camera equipment attached.Local police were concerned that Bangalore has several military institutions, and a statement given by Google to the AFP confirmed that Google had suspended the operation following a letter from Bangalore's police commissioner.Street View concerns in developing countries are significantly different to obstacles Google has hit recently in Germany and Switzerland, which were about privacy and data retention. Street View Brazil reportedly snapped dead bodies, while in India there are also sensitivities in the wake of the Mumbai attacks and from several bombings in Bangalore itself.", "tags": ["Digital media", "Media", "Google Street View", "Google", "Technology", "India", "World news"], "title": "Google Street View cameras halted in India"},{"date": "2011-06-14T21:00:01Z", "country": "india", "content": "Britain should continue to give aid to India until 2015 to ensure the country meets the millennium development goals (MDGs), a UK cross-party group of MPs recommends.In a report published by the House of Commons international development committee on Tuesday evening, MPs said that despite India's huge economic growth over the last 25 years, average per capita income is one-twentieth of that in the UK, and more than 400 million people still live in poverty. According to the UN MDG monitor, more than a third of India's population live on less than $1.25 a day.The committee called for future aid to be targeted to improve sanitation, tackle malnutrition and challenge social exclusion. But it also recommended that after 2015 the UK's aid relationship with India should \"fundamentally change\", suggesting the Department for International Development (DfID) begins drawing up an exit strategy.Aid to India has proved a contentious issue. Andrew Mitchell, the international development secretary, has defended his decision to give \u00a3280m a year over the next four years to a country that is the 11th largest economy in the world against critics who view its economic development and its billion-dollar space programme as evidence it does not need aid. Mitchell has already said aid to India until 2015 will be targeted on the poorest, with half the money spent on pro-poor private sector development.The committee said it had examined the arguments for and against aid. Its chairman, Malcolm Bruce, said: \"The test of whether the UK should continue to give aid to India is whether that aid makes a distinct, value-added contribution to poverty reduction which would not otherwise happen. We believe most UK aid does this.\"He added: \"The Indian government has primary responsibility for poverty reduction. It has put up taxes and increased its social spending, but the poverty there is on such an extreme scale that it will take many years for India to achieve internationally agreed millennium development goals. Poverty levels remain high in some parts of India, and these are states where UK funding is targeted\"The committee found that the Indian government invested \"significant funds\" in social programmes for health, education and employment.The report noted that India's space programme was often used as an example to illustrate the country's wealth, but MPs insisted the programme also delivered socio-economic benefits, such as mapping weather patterns and the extent of floods.The committee is calling on DfID to redirect resources for India from health to sanitation and recommended the department's nutrition programme becomes a central plank of its funding to tackle malnutrition.The committee also wants the department to do more to challenge discrimination against certain castes, ethnic or religious groups and people living with disabilities.Robin Greenwood, Christian Aid's head of Asia, welcomed MPs focus on discrimination. \"Christian Aid's experience in India is that the exclusions from society of whole groups - Dalits, tribal people, religious minorities and also women - are the most important causes of continuing extreme poverty in India,\" he said.A report from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), also published on Tuesday, found that poverty in India has fallen faster than in many other emerging economies over the last 10 years, although it said the government needed to focus on more pro-poor policies, including strengthening the welfare system and improving access to healthcare. At 1% of GDP, India's health spending is among the lowest in the world.The OECD report highlighted India's high rates of school drop-outs, despite education being a government priority, and called for better regulation and funding, more incentives for teachers, and more student loans for higher education.", "tags": ["Aid", "Global development", "India", "World news"], "title": "British MPs back aid to India | Liz Ford"},{"date": "2011-06-08T09:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Life is an uphill struggle for the enormous population of people living with HIV in India. We cannot look at HIV in isolation, as it is so closely related to poverty. More than 300 million people, about one in four Indians, live below the poverty line. A vast population live in abject poverty on less than $1 per day.Progress has certainly been made for people living with HIV, as the government now provides free antiretroviral treatment. But people living with HIV also need food, acceptance, care, good mental health and opportunities. But too often they are marginalised and very poor, lacking the basic ingredients needed to lift themselves out of their situation.I believe the present socio-political-economic environment is the biggest challenge for people living with HIV in India. Corruption and a lack of accountability have pushed people with HIV to the fringes of our society. This leaves a handful of faithful NGOs and individuals reaching out to millions of people.Walk with me through the streets and slums of Mumbai and I will show you people living with HIV and Aids who are suffering silently, not knowing where their next meal will come from or whether they will get a decent funeral. People in India are not dying of Aids, they are dying of hunger, stigma and rejection.India has been combating HIV for more than two decades now and has done well in improving the number of people accessing treatment. In many ways the government, with much support from NGOs, has achieved a slowdown in the spread of HIV. Also, fewer people are dying each year from Aids-related illnesses. But the challenge remains enormous.From my experience, I know that people living in utter poverty on the margins of the society, those most vulnerable to HIV, are not just statistics. They are people, valued human beings, and it is important that we treat them as such. They have opinions and beliefs that should be valued.No one wants to live with HIV. No one chooses to be discriminated against or ostracised by their society. If people are valued, then I believe there will be access to drugs, to quality care and the comfort they need. Compassionate work without valuing others is a mere framework with no substance. Valuing others will make every other task seem effortless.", "tags": ["Global development", "India", "World news"], "title": "Living with HIV in Mumbai, India"},{"date": "2011-06-02T14:56:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Union leaders have attacked a Tory-led council over its involvement in the \"export\" of up to 100 jobs to India, amid warnings that the move could be \"the tip of the iceberg\" that could see thousands of taxpayer-funded jobs go overseas.Unite claimed Birmingham city council, a Conservative-Liberal Democrat run authority led by the Conservative Mike Whitby, is the first town hall in the country involved in plans to move jobs to India for work paid for by taxpayers. A redundancy notice for 70 IT posts has already been served.Officials said they feared more council jobs in Birmingham and other local authorities could also go abroad as private companies delivering public services prepare to go to \"any length\" to cut costs for profit.Another union cited jobs being \"shipped out\" as it launched a strike ballot of nearly 10,000 members at Birmingham city council over job cuts, workers' pay and conditions.Unison is balloting against plans known as the Birmingham contract, which it claims breaks away from nationally agreed terms and conditions, abolishes payments for weekend and out-of-hours working and weakens workers' rights in grievances and disciplinaries. It said the \"contract\" will have a disproportionate impact on low-paid women workers.The union said that, to add \"insult to injury\", staff who face redundancy at the arms-length IT company are being told they must train up their replacements in India before they go.But the council said the new staff contracts were designed to make the authority \"fit for the challenges facing the public sector\" and contribute to the budgetary savings it has to make.Alan Rudge, the cabinet member for equalities and human resources, said: \"There is a clear need to bring our organisation into line with other leading employers, and the new Birmingham contract will make the council more resilient to future pressures through the reduction in costs and the introduction of broad job groups.\"Service Birmingham, a joint venture between the outsourcing firm Capita and the council, confirmed it has already transferred 17 \"back office\" IT support roles to India and has issued formal notice of redundancy plans for local workers ahead of the transfer of a further 38 roles in the summer.A further 45 jobs will be transferred to India later in the year if the first two phases of transfer go well, according to a spokesman.In a statement, Service Birmingham said: \"It is important to emphasise this is a very small element of the work we do for the council, and we remain absolutely committed to our Birmingham workforce.\"The Unite national officer, Peter Allenson, said: \"It beggars belief that council workers will be forced to train workers from overseas to do their jobs so Capita and Birmingham council can lift and shift them abroad.\"Unite is demanding that Birmingham city council halts its plans. We fear this could be just the tip of the iceberg and other councils could follow suit. Thousands of public sector jobs could go. Once these jobs go, they will not come back.\"He added: \"The blame lies firmly with private companies prepared to go to any length to cut costs for profit and this Tory-led council which is encouraging them to get away with it.\"A council spokesman insisted the transfer of jobs to India \"is a story about Service Birmingham\" and referred all comments to its spokesman. The council has a one-third stake in the venture.Capita, through the Service Birmingham company, has the contract for the council's IT and call centre services until 2021. It is also working on the authority's business transformation programme, which has been running since 2005 and aims to save the council \u00a31bn in costs by 2016.Despite the planned redundancies, Service Birmingham said it was committed to increasing local workforce numbers. \"Offshore staff will only ever represent a fraction of Service Birmingham's 1,100 workforce,\" the statement said.\"In addition, we will honour our jobs promise to employ an additional 520 people in the Birmingham area by 1 April 2011, 720 by 1 April 2013 and 800 by the end of 2016.\"The council plans to cut \u00a3300m from the city budget by 2015 as well as shed 7,116 jobs, which Unison says represents 37% of the council workforce.The union claims that, once part-time jobs are factored in, the total job losses increase to 10,000, which will have a \"devastating impact on council services\".Mark New, a regional organiser for the union, said: \"Members are upset and angry and Unison is asking them to take a stand against these savage cuts. To add insult to injury, the council plans to outsource more jobs to India.\"The massive job cuts, the pay freeze and privatisation, will leave the council struggling to provide decent services to people in Birmingham.\"Birmingham council is cutting back too hard and too fast. The cuts will devastate whole communities and the local economy, as well as the lives of council workers and their families.\"", "tags": ["Politics", "Local government", "Society", "Public sector cuts", "Public services policy", "Public finance", "Conservatives", "Liberal Democrats", "UK news", "Birmingham"], "title": "Tory-led council outsources jobs to India"},{"date": "2011-05-10T19:59:01Z", "country": "india", "content": "Some drift towards their destiny. For others, it all hinges on a single moment. It was like that for me, says Mihir Bose. Now 64, he travelled to Britain from India to study more than 40 years ago and has since moved back and forth, exploiting his status as a returning resident. It seemed the ideal arrangement for a young man pulled between dreams of making a name for himself here and a hugely privileged, less romantic lifestyle in India. And it was ideal, until an immigration officer at Heathrow said: \"If you want to live here, live here.\" \"I had to decide; do I go back to India and continue as an accountant and give up being a writer, or stay? I thought if I went back, I would always kick myself.\" So he stayed, to the annoyance of his father, an industrialist who envisaged a life for his son more lucrative than journalism.It's been some career: 22 books, a high-profile column in the Daily Telegraph and a pioneering appointment as the BBC's first sports editor. But that wasn't the point. \"He never understood why I left such a privileged life,\" says Mihir. \"And he missed me not being there. I regret not telling him that I loved him. But I have never regretted the choice I made.\"We're having a sad debate now about migration, says Mihir. All pound signs and statistics. \"What you don't hear are the personal stories.\" So he's telling his story in words and music on the east London stage next week. And one point he's keen to make is that when we focus on the numbers served up by Migration- Watch and the benefit scrounger stories, we belittle ourselves. \"I didn't come for money. I came for values. I grew up on Wodehouse and Just William. I could have made more money where I was. There was something else.\"We forget the something else, he says. \"The freedoms and opportunities so obvious that we take them for granted. We forget the values. So we scarcely believe that anyone else might prioritise them.\"Mihir's dad died in 1984 and last year an ensuing ritual took the writer from west London to the banks of the Ganges. He wore his panama hat: a symbol of the choice he made, and of his membership of the MCC.", "tags": ["Media", "India"], "title": "Hideously diverse Britain: a passage from India"},{"date": "2011-05-10T07:30:04Z", "country": "india", "content": "Osama bin Laden's killing is a potential turning point for India-Pakistan relations. The Indian government reacted to the news with an instant \"I told you so\" \u2013 the discovery of Bin Laden's safe house next door to the military academy in Abbottabad vindicates India's longstanding assessment that Pakistan has become a haven for jihadi extremism and the fountainhead of terrorism. The United States committed a historic blunder in trusting Islamabad. It failed to see the links between various pro-al-Qaida/Taliban groups and the Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate (ISI). This was of a piece with the official Indian reaction to the 9/11 attacks, which emphasised almost gloatingly that India had long suffered Islamist terrorism exactly the way the US did in 2001, but the world ignored this.Anti-Pakistan Indian military analysts celebrated the reassertion of the United States' hard power and clamoured for Indian \"covert operations\" to take out the Pakistan-based leadership of groups\u00a0like Lashkar-e-Taiba, implicated in the November 2008 Mumbai attacks. Pakistan responded by warning that its\u00a0retaliation would produce a\u00a0\"terrible\u00a0catastrophe\".Mercifully the bellicose mood is now giving way in India to more sober approaches favouring a continuation of the dialogue with Pakistan that began in February. This shift springs from the realisation that suspension of talks for two years didn't force Pakistan to act resolutely to dismantle the domestic \"terrorist infrastructure\"; a new strategy of engagement is necessary.New Delhi's willingness to explore the possibility of promoting bilateral trade, relaxing visa restrictions and resolving long-festering boundary disputes is welcome. That said, India has still not developed a vision or strategy to address the sizeable pro-peace constituency that exists in Pakistan, which would like to see Pakistan become a stable, moderate democracy and full civilian control to be established over the army and the ISI.This constituency is likely to become stronger as Pakistan emerges from confused and contradictory responses to the traumatic discovery of Bin Laden's sanctuary and the duplicitous role of the intelligence service, the ISI, regarding jihadi groups. Bin Laden's killing has put the army on the defensive.A crucial condition for strengthening Pakistan's civilian government and taming (some would say dismantling) the ISI is removal of the veto power the army wields over policy towards India and Afghanistan. The first is Kashmir-obsessed, and sees India as an\u00a0implacable enemy with whom peaceful coexistence is impossible.As for Afghanistan, the Pakistan army sees it as vital to achieving \"strategic depth\" with which to defend itself against Indian \"aggression\". It also denies India's historical ties with Afghanistan and the utility of India's aid programme, which has earned it tremendous popular goodwill.India can and should take the initiative in breaking the logjam through unilateral steps such as opening up its market unconditionally to Pakistani goods and services; encouraging joint ventures in energy (especially renewables); IT, banking and industry; a liberal visa regime that dismantles existing restrictions such as city-specific short-term visas; and promoting tourism and cultural and educational exchanges.Simultaneously India should resume its \"back channel\" dialogue on Kashmir, which produced dramatic gains until it was abandoned in 2007, including a tentative agreement on porous borders, gradual demilitarisation and increasing autonomy and self-rule for various sub-regions of undivided Jammu and Kashmir. This will gain credibility and momentum if India substantially withdraws its military presence in the Kashmir Valley.Pakistan's two-track policy of hunting with the American hounds and running with the jihadi hare has failed. It has increased extremist violence and caused 30,000 civilian deaths. It has brought Pakistan international disgrace. This approach must be replaced by a strengthening of the civilian government and a determined fight against extremism. The reform won't succeed unless India radically alters its Pakistan policy and is seen as a potential ally which has a huge stake in a peaceful, terror-free and prosperous subcontinent. ", "tags": ["US news", "World news", "US foreign policy", "Osama bin Laden", "India", "Pakistan", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "India and Pakistan's hope after Osama | Praful Bidwai"},{"date": "2011-05-02T12:30:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Joseph Lelyveld's book Great Soul: Mahatma Gandhi and His Struggle with India does not break new ground, but the Gandhi of hagiographers takes a beating. We get reaffirmation, however, of Gandhi's sheer presence, persistence and self-creation through self-promotion.What gets confirmed, too, is the moral ambiguity of the man who many people still revere as a saint. Men such as Aurobindo, who similarly launched their political and public careers in India, wisely took to the hills to contemplate life and the afterlife and provided a much more nuanced understanding of the Hindu/Indian spiritual ethos. But Gandhi was too mesmerised by himself, despite his oft-repeated protestations that he was not a visionary and that he was \"prone to many weaknesses\". That is both the gall and the honesty of the man: while he acknowledged that he was frail and vain like any other man, he got away with idiosyncrasies, foolish projects, unilateral decisions and political manipulation that allowed him to exercise enormous power and influence circumventing democratic processes.Lelyveld's book, because of the revelations about the relationship that Gandhi had with the German architect Hermann Kallenbach, has already been banned in Gandhi's home state of Gujarat. In an attempt to outdo the chief minister of Gujarat, the law minister of India contemplated writing into the books a law that would make \"insulting\" the Mahatma an act of blasphemy. India, it seems, is finally catching up to its neighbour's uses for blasphemy.For most Indians, the tale of the Mahatma is limited to the expurgated version of The Story of My Experiments with Truth. Some might have chanced upon Erik Erikson's Gandhi's Truth, but one rarely heard a conversation at home or in school about Gandhi's moral dilemmas as well as the aberrant and sometimes cruel behaviour that drove one of his sons to alcohol and some of his staff to quit in disgust. Even now, much of the political discourse in India has to do with charges against the \"Hindu brigade\" \u2013 for allegedly abetting and/or plotting Gandhi's assassination. The Hindu brigade, overcompensating for their provincialism and feelings of guilt, have included Gandhi in their overly long salutation to Indian greats in the Ek Mata Stotra (their unity hymn).In all this we ignore the fact that many people quarrelled with Gandhi. Many were troubled by his idiosyncratic ways, which we now know included sexually aberrant behaviour. It was not just the Hindu brigade that quarrelled with him but so did Muhammad Ali Jinnah, Annie Besant, Aurobindo, Ambedkar and others. Besant told Durga Das, a well-known and influential journalist, that she thought Gandhi was leading the country to anarchy.Gandhi's peccadilloes and idiosyncrasies drove quite a few people up the wall. He was considered by many to be a \"difficult person,\" as he insisted that those around him and the people of India follow him in his peculiar \"ascetic\" ways. Alas, very few people knew about his dangerous experiments to test his willpower and ability to withstand sexual temptation. One of those \"experiments\" included sleeping naked with his teenage grand-nieces, Manu and Abha.Some of the tests of will were neither new nor strange in some of the esoteric ascetic and spiritual traditions of India. But such practices were usually taught and carefully monitored by teachers, and were barred to those in the secular world. Because he was assassinated, we now ignore the frailties and the follies of the Mahatma. What is unremarked in many of the renderings on Gandhi is that his understanding of individual growth ignored the traditional Hindu version that sought balance between the four stages of life \u2013 brahmacharya, grihastya, vanaprastha, and sannyasa,\u00a0and the four\u00a0concerns of Hindus \u2013 dharma, artha, kama and moksha.\u00a0Gandhi's transition from the medieval to the modern without the understanding of the ancient led to his incomplete view of Indian history, culture and mores.\u00a0Gandhi defined satya (truth) and ahimsa (non-violence) as positivistic and absolutist respectively. In his autobiography, factual and ethical truth\u00a0is equated with ultimate truth. But in the practice of ahimsa, a mystical force of non-violence is presumed to be experienced as ultimate truth that can bring about a change of heart in the opponent.\u00a0In other words, his practice of truth or transparent right conduct acquires the mystical power of saving oneself and others. This is the medieval Vaishnava practice where surrender through right conduct \"saves\" the devotee. But as a political doctrine this approach did not always deliver the change of heart in the opponent. Thus, we observe Gandhi's disappointing engagement not only with Muslims, Christians, the British and the communists, but also with many Hindus too.Lelyveld's book, with a very small dose of titillating material about the Great Soul, therefore elicits howls of protests from those who have ensconced him among the pantheon of Hindu mythic figures. Unless we understand why Gandhi evoked mixed feelings, we will continue to deify him or lock away his many aberrations in the Indian family closet.", "tags": ["Mahatma Gandhi", "India", "Hinduism", "Religion", "Biography", "Books", "Censorship", "World news"], "title": "India needs to know the real Gandhi | Ramesh Rao"},{"date": "2011-07-18T12:03:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Some might have thought it ambitious, others foolhardy, but the World literature tour returns in triumph from a stop in Indonesia with more than 80 recommendations. There's Pramoedya Ananta Toer of course, saluted by Dr Sebastian Groes as the Conrad of the East, even though \"such a claim would misrepresent the extraordinary powers \u2013 and life \u2013 of this wonderful writer, and selfless human being\", but there's also Ahmad Tohari, hailed by sastraalibi as a \"True voice from [the] Indonesian countryside\", Dewi Lestari, cited by Zaa_rathustra as \"my favorite author in Indonesia\", and many, many more. Thanks again for all these marvellous suggestions.With many posters professing a similar level of ignorance to my own when it comes to Indonesian letters, the discussion below was perhaps most memorable for the image of uniriri's father reading out novels from the Api di Bukit Menoreh series \"whilst acting out all the martial arts Silat moves\". Despite helpful links from posters such as irhafidz and BambangS I suspect that only reading will counteract the feeling of literary uncertainty surrounding the destination \u2013 a mood which seems to be borne out in much of the voting for the tour's next destination. With strong showings for Argentina and Japan, voters seem to have plumped for literary cultures rather more familiar on western bookshelves.Thirty years after the publication of Midnight's Children, the links between western publishers and India are so strong that this month's stopover almost feels like visiting an old friend. Booker winners galore followed after Salman Rushdie's 1981 success, making Mumbai as much part of our literary landscape as Manchester, the hustle and bustle of New Delhi a familiar mirror of the hurly burly of New York. But as well as plumping for your favourite Vikram Seth \u2013 are you A Suitable Boy, or do you prefer the views from The Golden Gate? \u2013 we're looking for leads into the languages beyond the colonial.We're searching for books which capture something of the Indian experience \u2013 interpreted in the widest possible way. We're after novels, plays, poetry and non-fiction, whether in English or not yet translated. We're even after writing which captures something of the Indian diaspora. All you need to do is visit the boxes below, filling in the country \u2013 that's India this month \u2013 the title, the author, the translator and some indication of why it's great. And don't forget to fill in your vote for our next destination. Even if you haven't got an Indian diamond to suggest, your votes still count \u2013 anyone for Colombia?", "tags": ["Books", "Culture", "India", "Best books"], "title": "World literature tour: India"},{"date": "2011-07-18T12:03:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Some might have thought it ambitious, others foolhardy, but the World literature tour returns in triumph from a stop in Indonesia with more than 80 recommendations. There's Pramoedya Ananta Toer of course, saluted by Dr Sebastian Groes as the Conrad of the East, even though \"such a claim would misrepresent the extraordinary powers \u2013 and life \u2013 of this wonderful writer, and selfless human being\", but there's also Ahmad Tohari, hailed by sastraalibi as a \"True voice from [the] Indonesian countryside\", Dewi Lestari, cited by Zaa_rathustra as \"my favorite author in Indonesia\", and many, many more. Thanks again for all these marvellous suggestions.With many posters professing a similar level of ignorance to my own when it comes to Indonesian letters, the discussion below was perhaps most memorable for the image of uniriri's father reading out novels from the Api di Bukit Menoreh series \"whilst acting out all the martial arts Silat moves\". Despite helpful links from posters such as irhafidz and BambangS I suspect that only reading will counteract the feeling of literary uncertainty surrounding the destination \u2013 a mood which seems to be borne out in much of the voting for the tour's next destination. With strong showings for Argentina and Japan, voters seem to have plumped for literary cultures rather more familiar on western bookshelves.Thirty years after the publication of Midnight's Children, the links between western publishers and India are so strong that this month's stopover almost feels like visiting an old friend. Booker winners galore followed after Salman Rushdie's 1981 success, making Mumbai as much part of our literary landscape as Manchester, the hustle and bustle of New Delhi a familiar mirror of the hurly burly of New York. But as well as plumping for your favourite Vikram Seth \u2013 are you A Suitable Boy, or do you prefer the views from The Golden Gate? \u2013 we're looking for leads into the languages beyond the colonial.We're searching for books which capture something of the Indian experience \u2013 interpreted in the widest possible way. We're after novels, plays, poetry and non-fiction, whether in English or not yet translated. We're even after writing which captures something of the Indian diaspora. All you need to do is visit the boxes below, filling in the country \u2013 that's India this month \u2013 the title, the author, the translator and some indication of why it's great. And don't forget to fill in your vote for our next destination. Even if you haven't got an Indian diamond to suggest, your votes still count \u2013 anyone for Colombia?", "tags": ["Books", "Culture", "India", "Best books"], "title": "World literature tour: India"},{"date": "2011-08-19T16:43:18Z", "country": "india", "content": "Every week I pay 100 rupees (\u00a31.40) to the police so that they let me put my cart in the market. The police constable comes every Saturday to collect the cash from all the vendors and if I do not pay then he will not allow me to sell my vegetables. I also have to pay the municipal corporation of Delhi whatever they ask. It can be any amount from 200 to 500 rupees a month. They also come to collect it. If the municipal corporation seizes our cart then to get it released from their main office is more troublesome. The man who collects money from us informs us beforehand that their vehicle will come today to pick up the carts if we are selling somewhere without authorisation.I was beaten up by my husband regularly two years back and whenever I went to file a case against him, my husband would bribe the police officers. They even changed my witness statements. [So when I went to court] I had no evidence to get him behind bars. My husband left me with two kids of seven and 13 years and I had to try to go to court to get our maintenance. So far I have had no luck. Whenever there is a hearing I have to pay up to 500 rupees to get the written orders from the court. They are supposed to cost only a 10th of that. But if I wait for the court to give it to me then it will take months. If I want to, I can even pay the assistant of the judge to give me an early date of hearing. I feel corruption is everywhere. You can even bribe judges to get the judgment in your favour. My husband was arrested because he left home with my jewellery, my car, and whatever cash I had at that time. But he was released from the court after he bribed our lawyer and the judge. Today he boasts that he can buy the judge or my lawyers if he wants and is not afraid of any law that can catch him.Generally a contractor or a supplier who supplies goods for the heavy machines or any kind of supplies which you need in coalmines has to pay 20% to 30% of the total cost to the officials at his client's head office. First he needs to pay to get the work and then to get his fees and costs paid from the finance departments. Or, as is often the case, he needs to pay to get them to turn a blind eye to the substandard materials he is using.When I needed a passport we had to pay a certain amount to the agent who is in hand-in-glove with the passport officers. Next step is when the verification reaches the nearest local police station of wherever we live. The officers are meant to visit us to verify the application but instead they just call us to the police station and \u2013 if they know you are at all comfortable in terms of money \u2013 ask for cash. They just say: \"You are earning well. Give us some money for tea.\" This is a regular practice.I pays 50 rupees whenever I am caught by the police for not having a driving licence for the motorbike I ride. The best part is the way the police officers negotiate. It's as if they don't get a salary.", "tags": ["India", "Anna Hazare", "World news", "Global development"], "title": "Corruption in India: four stories"},{"date": "2011-07-18T12:03:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Some might have thought it ambitious, others foolhardy, but the World literature tour returns in triumph from a stop in Indonesia with more than 80 recommendations. There's Pramoedya Ananta Toer of course, saluted by Dr Sebastian Groes as the Conrad of the East, even though \"such a claim would misrepresent the extraordinary powers \u2013 and life \u2013 of this wonderful writer, and selfless human being\", but there's also Ahmad Tohari, hailed by sastraalibi as a \"True voice from [the] Indonesian countryside\", Dewi Lestari, cited by Zaa_rathustra as \"my favorite author in Indonesia\", and many, many more. Thanks again for all these marvellous suggestions.With many posters professing a similar level of ignorance to my own when it comes to Indonesian letters, the discussion below was perhaps most memorable for the image of uniriri's father reading out novels from the Api di Bukit Menoreh series \"whilst acting out all the martial arts Silat moves\". Despite helpful links from posters such as irhafidz and BambangS I suspect that only reading will counteract the feeling of literary uncertainty surrounding the destination \u2013 a mood which seems to be borne out in much of the voting for the tour's next destination. With strong showings for Argentina and Japan, voters seem to have plumped for literary cultures rather more familiar on western bookshelves.Thirty years after the publication of Midnight's Children, the links between western publishers and India are so strong that this month's stopover almost feels like visiting an old friend. Booker winners galore followed after Salman Rushdie's 1981 success, making Mumbai as much part of our literary landscape as Manchester, the hustle and bustle of New Delhi a familiar mirror of the hurly burly of New York. But as well as plumping for your favourite Vikram Seth \u2013 are you A Suitable Boy, or do you prefer the views from The Golden Gate? \u2013 we're looking for leads into the languages beyond the colonial.We're searching for books which capture something of the Indian experience \u2013 interpreted in the widest possible way. We're after novels, plays, poetry and non-fiction, whether in English or not yet translated. We're even after writing which captures something of the Indian diaspora. All you need to do is visit the boxes below, filling in the country \u2013 that's India this month \u2013 the title, the author, the translator and some indication of why it's great. And don't forget to fill in your vote for our next destination. Even if you haven't got an Indian diamond to suggest, your votes still count \u2013 anyone for Colombia?", "tags": ["Books", "Culture", "India", "Best books"], "title": "World literature tour: India"},{"date": "2011-08-19T16:43:18Z", "country": "india", "content": "Every week I pay 100 rupees (\u00a31.40) to the police so that they let me put my cart in the market. The police constable comes every Saturday to collect the cash from all the vendors and if I do not pay then he will not allow me to sell my vegetables. I also have to pay the municipal corporation of Delhi whatever they ask. It can be any amount from 200 to 500 rupees a month. They also come to collect it. If the municipal corporation seizes our cart then to get it released from their main office is more troublesome. The man who collects money from us informs us beforehand that their vehicle will come today to pick up the carts if we are selling somewhere without authorisation.I was beaten up by my husband regularly two years back and whenever I went to file a case against him, my husband would bribe the police officers. They even changed my witness statements. [So when I went to court] I had no evidence to get him behind bars. My husband left me with two kids of seven and 13 years and I had to try to go to court to get our maintenance. So far I have had no luck. Whenever there is a hearing I have to pay up to 500 rupees to get the written orders from the court. They are supposed to cost only a 10th of that. But if I wait for the court to give it to me then it will take months. If I want to, I can even pay the assistant of the judge to give me an early date of hearing. I feel corruption is everywhere. You can even bribe judges to get the judgment in your favour. My husband was arrested because he left home with my jewellery, my car, and whatever cash I had at that time. But he was released from the court after he bribed our lawyer and the judge. Today he boasts that he can buy the judge or my lawyers if he wants and is not afraid of any law that can catch him.Generally a contractor or a supplier who supplies goods for the heavy machines or any kind of supplies which you need in coalmines has to pay 20% to 30% of the total cost to the officials at his client's head office. First he needs to pay to get the work and then to get his fees and costs paid from the finance departments. Or, as is often the case, he needs to pay to get them to turn a blind eye to the substandard materials he is using.When I needed a passport we had to pay a certain amount to the agent who is in hand-in-glove with the passport officers. Next step is when the verification reaches the nearest local police station of wherever we live. The officers are meant to visit us to verify the application but instead they just call us to the police station and \u2013 if they know you are at all comfortable in terms of money \u2013 ask for cash. They just say: \"You are earning well. Give us some money for tea.\" This is a regular practice.I pays 50 rupees whenever I am caught by the police for not having a driving licence for the motorbike I ride. The best part is the way the police officers negotiate. It's as if they don't get a salary.", "tags": ["India", "Anna Hazare", "World news", "Global development"], "title": "Corruption in India: four stories"},{"date": "2011-08-21T09:32:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Preamble: You know those anxiety dreams you get? Like when you stand up to give that deal-sealing presentation and realise that you've forgotten to put your trousers on. Again. Or when you go for a job interview but can't even spell CV, let alone describe what's on yours. Followers of the England cricket team used to be well acquainted with the cold sweats. Even until recently, a night's slumber could be suddenly, heart-thumpingly disturbed by the mental echo of a Chennai 2008 or a 51 all out. Men and women with stronger constitutions than I have woken in the middle of the night screaming the name of the south Australian ground out loud.Not any more. This England team gives the opposition nightmares and it would be no surprise to hear that even the Little Master has been going to bed with his bat for the last few weeks, to ward off the nocturnal spectre of Jimmy and his swingers. Andrew Strauss's side may be 3-0 up in the series but, at The Oval, there's been no rest for the wicket. In 33 intense overs yesterday evening, the bowlers ripped into India's flagging line-up once again and, weather permitting, England have an excellent opportunity to wrap up a second consecutive victory by an innings. The last time India lost by such a margin twice in the same series was in 1983, at the hands of West Indies.So, English cricket is no longer responsible for your fret dreams. That doesn't mean they don't still occur from time to time, though, does it? And not just because of the cheese. I still sometimes wake to discover, thankfully, that my university finals took place several years ago and it doesn't matter if I haven't read any of the books. But enough about me - what's your story?Less chat, more hat: The bid for the sun hat signed by England's three hundred-makers at Brisbane last winter currently stands at a round \u00a3300. Not bad you might say - but with all proceeds from the auction going to the Mines Advisory Group, it would be remiss not to aim higher. Email your price to the OBO and the highest bidder at the end of the series gets the prize.The first email of the day and it's a doozy: \"Dear Sir,\" begins Vladimir Harkonnen - a phrase to chill any OBOer's heart. \"I wish to protest against the careless use of the word whitewash which has crept into our latter-day demotic tongue. Especially as applied to England's annihilation of India, the term is inadequate. A better way of expressing it would be to say that England have Rochestered India. See: John Wilmot, Earl of Rochester, finest poem The Annihilation of Nothing. I trust you will correct your phraseology forthwith.\" Didn't Rochester write a lot of blue poetry? In which case, we might just as well say that England have Rogered India. But then, this is a family show, so we'll stick with whitewash, until the guardian style guide dictates otherwise.The England team are out on the pitch, and the crowd greet them with warm applause. The sun is struggling to break through low cloud cover, from the looks of it, and there's the suggestion we might get a spot of rain at some point during the morning.Not that such inconvenience would throw England off the scent, you feel.34th over: India 104-5 (Dravid 57, Dhoni 5) Hey ho, away we go, with Stuart Broad to bowl the first over of the morning. He starts with a no-ball. Try again, Stuey. His next delivery takes the outside edge of the bat but the ball stays low, bobbling its way to Anderson in the slips. Broad's line for the rest of the over is largely angled into Dravid, trying to unpick that immaculate defense, before the final ball, an away swinger, is left by the batsman. \"While the recurring finals anxiety dream is, indeed, a nightmare, waking to discover that you never have to take another exam is truly a fabulous moment of recompense,\" notes Steve Busfield, our man Stateside. True, it's a huge wave of relief that washes over you. Hang on, what time is it in New York? Have you just woken up from that very dream, Steve, and come to comfort yourself with a soothing session of the cricket?35th over: India 108-5 (Dravid 59, Dhoni 6) It'll be Graeme Swann at the other end, naturelment. Dhoni goes after the spinner's first ball, sweeping hard but missing, pad rather than bat coming into the equation. Swann appeals but the result is a leg bye to Dhoni. That, though, is a huge shout, again for lbw against Dhoni. The India captain stepped outside the line of off and lifted his arms above his head, offering no shot whatsoever. The ball would have had to have come back a fair way, and Simon Taufel decides it wouldn't have done enough ... only for Hawk-Eye to adjudge that it would have clipped the top of off. As Bumble says, though, it would have been a guess to give that out.36th over: India 109-5 (Dravid 60, Dhoni 6) Broad beats Dhoni with a devil of a delivery (perhaps a devilry?), the batsman pushing forward outside off uncertainly. That's just the line for Broad. \"Morning Gardner, morning everybody. I've got tickets for tomorrow, so the most pressing question is how substantial a picnic to take. Can your reader(s) offer any suggestions?\" According to our esteemed bookmaker friends, England are 3-1 to win today, Josh Robinson. So maybe you should consider breakfast and little more?37th over: India 111-5 (Dravid 61, Dhoni 7) Already Swann has got his twirl on, looping the ball from on high into the right-handers, getting a juicy amount of grip from the surface of the pitch. Dhoni attempts a flick off his pads, with the ball falling just short of Andrew Strauss at midwicket. \"Sat in the Lock Lower this morning drinking in (literally) the wonderful atmosphere at the Oval with three friends, one of whom is at his first Test match, in fact his first ever game of cricket. Being a football fan he's just as mystified with the fact he can buy a beer at 11am as he is with the intricacies of the beautiful game. We're enjoying schooling him, I'm sure he'll have the hang of it soon. Who cares, when Swann's on?\" I'm sure the ingenue will be, er, safe in Guy Hornsby's hands.38th over: India 111-5 (Dravid 61, Dhoni 7) [Whistles through teeth] Two chances come and go in Broad's over and, such is England's excellence these days, you feel they should have taken one of the them. The first, a mix-up between Dravid and Dhoni, sees the former sent scampering back to the non-striker's end, with Kevin Pietersen's throw from cover only a few inches wide of the stumps, even though he only had one and a half to aim at. Then Broad induces a thick-ish edge from Dhoni, but the ball dies a little on its way through, bouncing a fraction before reaching Strauss at first slip.39th over: India 113-5 (Dravid 62, Dhoni 8) Swann weaves away Shelob-like, looking to snare himself a hobbit. He's got an excellent record here at The Oval, from his handful of appearances, and you feel that a breakthrough is never too far away. \"As far as I am aware it was Thom Gunn rather than Rochester who wrote The Annihilation of Nothing. Did Vladimir Harkonnen mean Upon Nothing instead?\" says Justin Horton, adjusting his monocle.40th over: India 113-5 (Dravid 62, Dhoni 8) That's a maiden from Broad to Dhoni. \"Even more ridiculously, I'm currently in California, it's 3am and I've just written this about the football match I attended a few hours ago: Robbie Keane's LA Galaxy debut.\" I haven't read Steve Busfield's blog, but I expect to find a reference to it being Keane's boyhood dream to play on the west coast, when I do.41st over: India 118-5 (Dravid 63, Dhoni 12) Dhoni really does look like a man trying to guess which cup the magician has hidden the ping pong ball under against Swann. He goes back, he goes forward, he sweeps, he attempts to leave ... He survives. And he gets a four, when an attacking shot takes the glove and skids through the thicket of fielders and away to the fence. Time to hand the mic to Martin Rutherford: \"Padding up is such a horrible tactic. It's cricket's equivalent of feigning injury. It's anti-cricket. I think you've got to give the benefit of the doubt to the bowler when batsman pads up outside off. It is always hard to guess where the spinning ball will go, so the deterrent against shots like Dhoni's is to favour the bowler if the decision is close.\" If you don't know what the bejesus is going on, I guess you can't blame the man from abstaining.42nd over: India 126-5 (Dravid 71, Dhoni 12) This India pair are battling away admirably, Dravid watchful and upright, Dhoni living by his wits. The former tucks four off his pads from Broad's first ball but then gets a tad lucky with another boundary later in the over, a thick edge from a wide ball that arced past the diving fielder in the gully.43rd over: India 131-5 (Dravid 73, Dhoni 15) An over of binary solo. Swann's figures now read one for 44 from 15. \"Come on, surely exams ain't all that?\" chirps Ryan Dunne. \"I graduated in May and having to write shite for a couple of hours, once a year at once, sounds a lot less onerous than the rigours of grown-up working life. And surely the worst dreams involve e.g. ex-partners, and the best involve sexy celebrities?\" Er, yeah, the rigours of grown-up working life. That does give me nightmares. Thankfully I've never experienced it.44th over: India 131-5 (Dravid 73, Dhoni 15) It's time for Jimmy and his swingers and he's immediately on the money, honey, beating Dhoni with a textbook away-ducker. It didn't help that Dhoni was on the walk, trying to chip the ball on the up. He's a curiosity at the crease, far more energy and invention than technique. I suppose that's why he's got his own shot. Alex Sharp, meanwhile, has found his subconscious invaded by Agent Anderson: \"You mention in today's preamble that it wouldn't be surprising to find that Sachin goes to bed each night haunted by images of 'Jimmy and his swingers'. I too am now slightly preoccupied by more than just the cricket... Enough to induce anxiety dreams all round.45th over: India 137-5 (Dravid 77, Dhoni 17) As Mike Ahterton observes on Sky, Dravid and Dhoni have rotated the well against Swann, which denies him a sustained attack, as he managed against Raina yesterday. Six runs from the over, all run.WICKET! Dhoni 17 c Prior b Anderson (46th over: India 137-6) That's why Jimmy Anderson strolls through the canyons of Indian minds, leering like a clean-cut boogie man. He does the hokey-cokey with Dhoni, going out, in, then out again, the batsman only able to get a nick through to the keeper as he pushed at a length ball. So that ends Dhoni's skittish stay at the crease.46th over: India 137-6 (Dravid 77, Mishra 0) This may be a dead rubber but I can still smell burning. India send in Amit Mishra - rather than Gautam Gambhir, who didn't open yesterday due to concussion - and the visitors still need more than 250 runs to avoid the follow-on. England are playing with matches.47th over: India 141-6 (Dravid 80, Mishra 1) Dravid goes deftly back to Swann, flicking away the ball for another three runs. He has been immaculate once again this morning. \"Me again,\" hollers Josh Robinson. \"There's something very, very strange about following a game at this stage in the knowledge that I want to see what's left of it tomorrow, ideally in something of a contest where India have a chance of saving the game. Dropped catches, for example, lose their frustrating character, and become almost desirable.\"48th over: India 145-6 (Dravid 80, Mishra 5) Mishra stoutly defends an over of Anderson's teasers. He gets down well on a couple fired in at almost yorker length, as Jimmy seeks a quick kill. From the final ball of the over, Anderson goes wide on the crease and attempts to get the late movement that would straighten the path of the ball and defeat the defensive stroke - but there's no swing this time, and Mishra is able to turn the ball around the corner for four down to long leg.49th over: India 150-6 (Dravid 81, Mishra 9) Shot! Mishra shows he can play a bit, n'all, skipping out to Swann and depositing the ball over midwicket for four. That's the 150 up, and India are a quarter of the way there. \"Morning Alan, On the entirely legal feed from Indian television I am watching here in Newfoundland, Saurav Ganguly has just described MS Dhoni as looking \"comfortable\" this morning. That would be the MS who could have been given out LBW playing no shot to Swann, and had an edge from Broad drop just short of Strauss. I know ex-players are more expert than the likes of me, but come on.\" I think, Richard Woods, in the circumstance, we can forgive Sourav being a bit one-eyed for the benefit of the Indian broadcaster, don't you?50th over: India 156-6 (Dravid 86, Mishra 10) Yes, yes, I realise 250 is a fair bit more than 150. I've got my English lit head on this morning - my maths brain cell is recharging. Dravid continues to stroll serenely through the carnage of India's tour, clipping a four through the leg side with the air of a man going to collect the milk from the doorstep. \"If Jimmy is the figure strollng through the canyons of Indian minds, does this mean they're also smelling sweet essence of giraffe? (Get your dad to explain.)\" Is that a Bonzo Dog Doodah Band reference, John Starbuck?51st over: India 157-6 (Dravid 86, Mishra 11) Swann will continue, still looking for a break this morning. On the commentary, Sanjay Manjrekar is paying tribute to Rahul Dravid, who is unobtrusively closing in on his third hundred of the tour. \"We all dream of a team of Rahul Dravids\" doesn't quite work, does it? And, though the man can keep wicket, he might struggle to take them, even though his one Test scalp (in 157 Tests) came at a cost of 39. I wonder who that man is, dismissed by Rahul's off-break (obviously I could find out but that would completely confound my rhetorical device).52nd over: India 157-6 (Dravid 86, Mishra 11) Despite the ball being more than 50 overs old, Anderson is still getting a decent bit of hula on it. He continues to switch between the in- and out-swinger, which fairly bamboozles Mishra, who is twice caught on the crease, his pads taking the brunt of the blow. One looks a decent appeal, though the ball was probably swinging too far down leg. That's maiden, which Mishra knew very little about. \"Given that England have played well as a team, and it would unfair to pick between, say, Pietersen and Bell or Anderson and Broad, perhaps Dravid should be given the Man of the Series award?,\" suggest Harry Tuttle, who is in charitable mood. \"Could anyone begrudge him that?\"53rd over: India 170-6 (Dravid 99, Mishra 11) Dravid suddenly steps on the gas, reaching out to swipe Swann away for four over mid-wicket, then hopping back to play a silky cut shot through point for another boundary. He clips another four off his pads, which draws praise from a man who knew a thing or two about elegant stroke-making, David Gower. Those boundaries move him on to 98, though he very nearly runs himself out from the final ball of the over, attempting a quick single to mid-off, diving to make his crease as the throw skidding just wide of the stumps.54th over: India 172-6 (Dravid 101, Mishra 11) England turn, a little belatedly perhaps, to Timmy Bresnan. I'm not sure that Dravid has given up on Mishra but he's certainly eager to reach his ton. Bresnan keeps him waiting until the fourth ball, which he skims off the face past the slips for two - that's a marvelous knock, Dravid's second hundred as a fill-in opener. And to think, Tendulkar won't even consider moving up from No4!55th over: India 172-6 (Dravid 101, Mishra 11) Swann runs through a maiden to Mishra. You wonder, really, how India are in this position, given the decent state of the wicket. \"It strikes me, reading the OBO whilst at work - that now England seem to have mastered the fundamentals of playing cricket, I'd perhaps like to watch some of it. Sadly the chances of me getting five days to sit around watching cricket are - not entirely coincidentally - exactly the same as my chances of winning the lottery. Such a shame that when cricket was on the BBC and I used to get six weeks off every summer we were rubbish.\" Nick Evans finds another good reason to pine for those lost school days. Though I'm presuming you do get weekends off, even now?56th over: India 173-6 (Dravid 102, Mishra 11) \"Has Martin Rutherford (over 41), bless him, forgotten England's infamous initial anti-Warne strategy? I can't blame him, it was pretty embarrassing.\" Eamonn Maloney spots a Ministry of Information 'adjustment'. Although, to be fair, it's not like that tactic (or any English tactic) worked against Warne, is it?57th over: India 177-6 (Dravid 104, Mishra 13) Mishra gets a big step in against Swann, with his forward defensive solid enough to prevent the ball popping off the pad and into a danger area. There were shouts of \"catch it\" but the ball landed pretty safe. \"Surely we can do better than Bonzo Dog Doodah band references in these virtual hallowed halls?! For example, here's some India-set *genuine* comedy to take away the bad taste of all those characteristically unfunny Family Guy clips yesterday,\" says Ryan Dunne. And I thought, from the title of your email (India, Tigers), you were going to link to this. Looking at it again, have you just mixed up Zulus and Indians? *cough* Rascist *cough*58th over: India 178-6 (Dravid 104, Mishra 13) Bresnan has needed no warming up here, immediately finding his line and length like an experience angler. \"Look, can we stop all this dream talk? I fear tonight I'm going to end up having nightmares where Jimmy's swingers doggedly pursue Tendulkar while a stadium full of Rahul Dravids look on.\" That would be an improvement for some of the regulars around here, I think, Phil Sawyer.59th over: India 183-6 (Dravid 104, Mishra 13) England turn to Pietersen, to give Swann a break. Though it means an increased workload for Matt Prior, as KP keeps bunging the ball down the leg side. He really does send down some utter filth, does Pietersen, though his height does make him awkward to play. And there's an appeal for a bat-pad catch of Mishra, again, but replays show there wasn't an edge.60th over: India 191-6 (Dravid 104, Mishra 21) Mishra is riding his luck, here, which is as much as you can ask from your No9 (promoted one). Actually, given the standards set by England's lower order, perhaps you can ask for more these days. Anyhoo, Mishra gets a life when he edges Bresnan along the ground, through the slips and away for four. Later in the over, he gets down on one knee and merrily thrashes a square drive for another boundary. He's definitely holding his end up.61st over: India 193-6 (Dravid 106, Mishra 21) Dravid reports to kicking Pietersen away outside off-stump. Erratic as he is, he does get bounce, which is was Dravid is worried about. Two runs tickled into the legside mean that this is now India's best partnership of the innings. Here's JP Churchouse, with the request the OBO has been waiting for: \"Had a semi productive afternoon here in HK putting together a playlist of songs named after people. So far I have - Clint Eastwood - Gorillaz, Sigourney Weaver - John Grant, Franz Schubert - Kraftwerk, Barbra Streisand - Duck Sauce, Andy Warhol - David Bowie. Need to get to at least 12. Please help.\" What about Fred Titmus?62nd over: India 198-6 (Dravid 106, Mishra 21) Bresnan beats Mishra's outside edge with one that just held it's line. He also chucked five wides down the leg side but we'll allow him that, this once. England just beginning to look a little short of ideas, for the first time in the innings.63rd over: India 208-6 (Dravid 107, Mishra 30) After Dravid picks up a single, Mishra gets caught out by Pietersen in the flight, the ball thumping into his pads as he stepped out for a yahoo. Ian Bell then almost effects a run out, but Mishra was aware enough to get back to his crease. He then crashes another couple of boundaries, one pulled through leg, the other glanced off the face. KP scratches his head. \"As a typical Australian who grew up playing endless games of life or death back yard cricket where England was the hated enemy (lots of arguments on who was England - usually resolved with agreement to disagree) my worst dream was along the lines of having to say \"congrats England you are the best\". So well um, damn, can you tell me how long before West Ham kick off? Regards and you're going ok, considering.\" Considering what, eh, Michael Quin? I think I'll direct you to a website I've heard is very useful, for that kick-off time.64th over: India 211-6 (Dravid 108, Mishra 32) Swann comes on for an over before lunch. He might get one more after this, though even he is struggling to get much out this surface now. \"In honour of Dravid\u2026..Pink Floyd, The Wall!,\" suggests Robin Parker. And here's Keith Allman, invoking a much-loved (at least, as far as that description can apply to a football official) Scottish referee: \"Whilst I'm sure your inbox has already collapsed under the weight of suggestions, may I venture Hugh Dallas by Mogwai? It's sport related after all. And presumably the only post rock suggestion you'll receive.\"65th over: India 211-6 (Dravid 108, Mishra 32) This is quite a canny move, I think: Strauss has brought on Ravi Bopara. He's quite quick, despite being ostensibly a military medium-pacer, and he can swing the ball. He has taken 134 first-class wickets, despite Beefy Botham's suggestion that he doesn't bowl enough. And he almost makes it 135, as Mishra gets a leading edge, the ball looping towards mid-off where it drops a yard or two short.66th over: India 218-6 (Dravid 109, Mishra 38) There will be time for Swann to pop his collar and roll through one last over. Shouts of \"ooh\" and \"aah\" as Mishra pushes forward at one, appearing to get an edge on to his pads. Talk of snaffling the tailender with the last ball before lunch is scotched, however, as Mishra strolls insouciantly out of his crease to dump Swann over the long-on boundary. That was as jaunty a six as you'll see. In response to JP Churchouse's request, George Brough has sent in the succinct: \"Scritti Politti - Jacques Derrida\". And Owen Jones says: \"Songs named after people - Super Furry Animals get two with one stone with 'Venus & Serena'. Topically, The Duckworth Lewis Method, in their entirely cricket themed album, had 'Meeting Mr Miandad' as a fine tune.\" In a VW camper van - a very fine tune indeed.LUNCHRight, I'm off to do as the England team do, so Tom Lutz will be your sounding board for the afternoon session. Send your thoughts to tom.lutz@guardian.co.uk.67th over: India 218-6 (Dravid 109, Mishra 38)Afternoon. Whisper, it but India may actually break 300 for the first time in the series here. Of course, there's the whole everything-else-about-this-tour-has-been-a-shambles thing but small steps, eh? Bopara bowls the first over of the session and Dravid attempts an un-Dravid waft at a wide one, which he misses. After that he calms down and we start with a maiden.68th over: India 221-6 (Dravid 110, Mishra 40) Three runs come from Bresnan's first over after lunch: Mishra's looking pretty comfortable out there. Here's Paul Thompson: \"A suggestion for JP Churchouse (over 61): James Brown by Cabaret Voltaire.\" How about Lenny Valentino by the Auteurs. Although that's an amalgam of two people but that makes it even better two people for the price of one.69th over: India 224-6 (Dravid 110, Mishra 43)  Graeme Swann is back on. There's an early shout for lbw but the umpire shakes his head but it was iffy whether it would have clipped leg-stump or not.70th over WICKET! Mishra b Bresnan c Bell 43, 228-7 What a catch! Bell leaps magnificently at short leg to take one of the catches of the series so far after a miscontrolled pull from Mishra. Gambhir is in after his head-knack earlier in the Test.71st over: India 232-7 (Dravid 114, Gambhir 0)  Mishra's gone but Dravid's till here: he smacks Swann's first ball of the over to the boundary. Dravid has now faced 30,000 balls at Test level. \"On a point of order, supposedly the song 'Venus and Serena' by the Super Furry Animals was in fact named after the lead singer's pet turtles - so Owen Jones's suggestion may not qualify,\" says Charlie Brendon. \"But this raises an obvious question: How many other examples are there of songs named after pets named after famous people?\" Nine. There are nine. Including Venus and Serena. I had cats called Vic and Bob but Vic died early on so Bob was left on her own for 17 years and no one ever got my joke. Least of all poor, dead Vic.72nd over: India 232-7 (Dravid 114, Gambhir 0)  Bresnan attempts to unsettle Gambhir \u2013 with his bad had \u2013 with a few short balls but he copes well enough \"For JP Churchouse (who, with a name like that, I hope plays first class cricket) and his challenge: excitingly, U2's The Unforgettable Fire album gives a 2-fer of Elvis Presley and America and MLK! (I know that U2 are probably not cool enough for the Guardian, but still),\" says Ryan Dunne. No problem, it's only the sports desk so we don't need to worry about being out of the loop musically. Still ... U2.73rd over: India 233-7 (Dravid 115, Gambhir 0)  Big shout for lbw on Gambhir but it was bat first. Actually, just bat. \"Madness did Michael Caine,\" says Steve Clark. \"It'd be nice to quip that 'And not a lot of people know that' but I suspect I am not unique in suggesting this.\" Correct.74th over: India 239-7 (Dravid 119, Gambhir 1)  Dravid is rattled around the left knee and limps forward for a leg bye. Seems to have shaken it off though - he cuts Bresnan for four a few balls later. Here's The Oldest Member: \"A thought, involving lots of ifs, buts and maybes. In the previous Test there was some discussion on the OBO of whether Alistair Cook might be on the field for the entire match. It was shown to be a rarity (and Cook didn't manage it). Dravid is showing the resilience, and the majority of his teammates the frailty, so it is conceivable he might carry his bat for this innings, the follow-on be enforced and he then might bat through the next innings as well. Raising the question: has anyone ever been on the pitch for an entire Test match and ended up on the losing side?\"75th over: India 239-7 (Dravid 119, Gambhir 1) Cook nearly takes a diving catch to dismiss Gambhir. Would have been an excellent take though. \"Our cats have been named (Kit) Marlowe, Dryden, Chaucer, Byron, Spenser, Shelley, Swinburne and Sheridan,\" says John Starbuck. \"Sadly, all except the last have died of old age or motor vehicles, but there's nothing like having a system and sticking to it.\" My next cats will be called Smyth and Bull.76th over: India 246-7 (Dravid 125, Gambhir 2) Kevin Carter by the Manics is coming in very strongly on the song titles front. KP serves up a pie for his first ball of the session and it's smacked for four.77th over: India 247-7 (Dravid 126, Gambhir 2) Just a single from Swann's over. Here's something to cheer us up on a so-so English summer's day from Martin Dixon: \"From a cold and rainy S\u00e3o Paulo - Sigourney Weaver by John Grant. In fact the whole song is on this very riff.\" OK, it's winter in Brazil right now but still nice to think even Brazil has its off days.78th over: India 250-7 (Dravid 128, Gambhir 3)  Pietersen and Swann continue to whirl away as we wait for the new ball, Gambhir will be glad he can find his way in with Pietersen bowling.79th over: India 251-7 (Dravid 129, Gambhir 3) \"Mermaid Avenue, the album by Billy Bragg and Wilco of lyrics by Woody Guthrie, music by Bragg and Wilco, has a three-fer of songs with people in the title: Ingrid Bergman, Walt Whitman's niece (I assume he had one), and Christ for President,\" says Paul Connelly. You've just taken the riff to a new level, Paul.80th over: India 253-7 (Dravid 130, Gambhir 4) Gambhir is rattling along with four from 30 balls. New ball is due next over, his runs may run slightly then, which is worrying for the neutral. \"Following from an earlier missive to Mr Gardner, our cricket/test virgin, Andi, is having a storming time so far today,\" says Guy Hornsby. \"A few sheets to the wind, he's grasping the rudiments of test cricket: Dravid's obduracy, Swann's wizadry, liver compromiser, the OBO and TMS. He's flirting with Superiority, and I haven't even broached the legend of Gary Naylor yet. Plenty of overs left in the day for further drinking, sorry education.\"81st over: India 253-7 (Dravid 130, Gambhir 4) England take the new ball at the first opportunity and Jimmy Anderson will bowl. In facthe has bowled and it was a maiden. \"Yes, I'm another Phil Sawyer. Not the one who comments regularly. Spooky, I know,\" says Phil Sawyer (the other one). \"We had two kittens named Bodie and Doyle. All well and good until Doyle went to join the feline choir invisible after only a few months. So Bodie's had to deal with a sole existence for 10 years and we've trotted that story out to anyone who's asked. Which has been everyone.\" Just direct them to this report from now on. We need the readers.82nd over: India 258-7 (Dravid 131, Gambhir 8) Broad's back on and Dravid clips his first ball, a full toss, for a single. Strauss brings in a gully and short leg for Gambhir. He gets his first boundary, down to fine leg, though and Broad isn't at his most penetrating. \"Afternoon Lutz, afternoon everybody,\" says Josh Robinson. \"Amazing how a single wicket, even that of a (promoted) no 9, can transform me from a state of hoping that they'll fall quickly enough that India don't avoid the follow-on, to hoping that they'll fall slowly enough that they'll be play tomorrow. I feel as if I'm approaching a state of mild split-personality syndrome.\"83rd over: India 259-7 (Dravid 132, Gambhir 8) Gambhir is hanging around but he looks lethargic and sluggish, which I guess isn't that surprising from someone who's had concussion. \"Piazza New York Catcher by Belle and Sebastian isn't really all about Mike Piazza, the New York Mets catcher, but he does feature, hitting three-eighteen and catching every day. It's hot and nice here in Maine, USA by the way,\" says Hank Laurence in Maine, USA. Which is hot and sunny.84th over: India 261-7 (Dravid 133, Gambhir 9) Broad comes in wider at Gambhir but he's till seeing it out doggedly and the ball squirts away for a single. \"Does the term 'all-rounder' now only refer to a player who averages about the same with both bat and ball (usually about 32-33),\" asks Max Banjo. \"Or can it be used to refer to a player who's very good at both? There's a player in the Engliand team averaging 45 with the bat and 23 with the ball and Atherton and Warne and plenty of other commentators have been discussing England's lack of an all-rounder to be the fifth bowler. Can't someone even suggest that Tim Bresnan might have some potential!?\"85th over: India 261-7 (Dravid 133, Gambhir 9) A bit of swing from Jimmy before he has Gambhir ducking under a bouncer. It's a Phil Sawyer war: \"There's another Phil Sawyer on the block (81st over)? So if he's the other Phil Sawyer, what will you be labeling me? The original Phil Sawyer? Phil Sawyer Prime (which would be hugely inaccurate and undeserved)? That idiot Sawyer (which is what Mac Millings usually calls me)?\" More importantly what happens if another Phil Sawyer turns up? We could make a programme out of this if Dave Gorman hadn't already done it.86th over: India 263-7 (Dravid 134, Gambhir 10) Dravid and Gambhir are seeing off the new ball well here. A bit disorientating having two batsmen of this quality on the pitch at seven down. \"A good cricketing one from Captain Sensible - Sir Donald's Son,\" says Phil Withall. The song's called Sir Donald's Son, I think no one's suggesting Bradman fathered a pop star. \"All about The Don and the pressure of being the son of a legend. And Steve Earle did John Walker's Blues about the American Guantanamo bay detainee.\"87th over: India 263-7 (Dravid 134, Gambhir 10)  The ball isn't swinging about too much, which has made life more comfortable for Gambhir in particular. \"That bloke doing the recording of names in song titles should do Jonathan Jonathan by the brilliant brit country rock combo The Rockingbirds,\" says the Guardian's very own Martin Farrer. I didn't know any of my colleagues actually read this. I may have to look at my punctuation. \"It's about Jonathan Richman, as in the Modern Lovers. And the Rockingbirds frontman, Alan Tyler, is a big cricket fan and may even be watching the live blog.\" That's drinks.WICKET! Gambhir b Broad c Pietersen 10, 264-8 India are happy to defend with the ball not doing much \u2013 there is talk of rain tomorrow afternoon so they may well have half an eye on the draw. Or even 22 eyes. Oh! Broad gets extra bounce and Gambhir fences the ball to Pietersen.88th over: India 267-8 (Dravid 134, RP Singh 3)  Big shout for lbw on Singh's first ball but it was drifting wide. He flicks the next ball away for three, it was in the air though.89th over: India 276-8 (Dravid 135, RP Singh 12) Successive fours from Singh and, suffice to say, Jimmy isn't happy. Both weren't what you'd call classy shots but he looks like he's ready to swing the bat, which shou;d make things amusing. \"I wouldn't presume to want to start a war with Phil Sawyer Classic (85th over),\" says Phil Sawyer Lite. \"Mind you, his updates have caused me issues in the past as I've had to convince my boss that I haven't been glued to OBO while I was supposed to be working.\" Ah, the perils of Being Phil Sawyer.90th over: India 277-8 (Dravid 135, RP Singh 13) Singh has strike again. He catches the ball on his gloves and Bell sprints in to see if he can take a (very cheeky) catch. But Singh opens his hands and the ball plops to safety. \"Is this Rockingbirds frontman (87th over) THE Alan Tyler?,\" asks Ryan Dunne. \"His recent parody of a Tendulkar story and the internet commentators thereon is one of the funniest things I've read recently.\"91st over: India 285-8 (Dravid 135, RP Singh 21) India need 392 to avoid the follow on. Singh gets closer to that target, smashing the ball past Anderson for four. And gets another one to end the over. This is quite good fun. Our friends on the picture desk have put together the best images from today's play.92nd over: India 290-8 (Dravid 140, RP Singh 21) Dravid skims a ball through cover for four. A small milestone here: India now have their highest score of the series. That says a lot about the series. Here's Hardeep Dhillon on the names in songs riff: \"Maybe a cheeky one with my own name - How Deep is Your Love by the Bee Gees/Take That, who are actually singing 'Hardeep is Your Love'.\" I think Gary Barlow was discussing how key you were to his career on X-Factor the other day actually.93rd over: India 295-8 (Dravid 140, RP Singh 25) Swann is back on. He has a big shout for lba against Singh but it was going pretty high. Next ball is dispatched for four. The tail enders have enjoyed themselves against Swann in the last two Tests \"Surely the person who is most often namechecked in song titles is Jesus,\" says Richard Mansell, not unreasonably. Him and Tim Da-Dee-Da-Dee-Da.94th over: India 300-8 (Dravid 146, RP Singh 25)  Bresnan's return is greeted with a four by Dravid. The next ball, miracle of miracles, India reach 300 for the first time in the series. Appropriately, it's Dravid who gets them there. Without him they'd have been lucky to get to 200 in a few of the innings. Then...WICKET! b Bresnan c Anderson, Singh 25. India 300-9 Singh's entertaining innings comes to an end. Anderson takes a good catch, doing well to hang on to a ball that comes at him just above head height.WICKET! c Morgan b Bresnan Sreesanth 0, India 300 all out Sreesanth has a slash at a wide ball and Morgan takes the catch easily. Dravid has carried his bat and will need to come in again in a few minutes: the signs are England will enforce the follow on.Confirmation that England have enforced the follow on.  \"Oh great. Now it turns out that by simply existing I'm managing to ruin someone else's life (89th over). Mind you, this does not surprise me. I've often suspected this to be the case. From now on I'm going to have to call myself Phil (not the other Phil Sawyer, the one who's working) Sawyer whenever I email in,\" says Phil (not the other Phil Sawyer, the one who's working) Sawyer.1st over: India 9-0 (Sehwag 5, Dravid 4) Poor old Dravid trudges out to face Jimmy Anderson again. Still, at least Sehwag has had plenty of rest. He nearly chops the first ball on to his stump but it runs away for four. \"Now that the two Indian bowlers who served up the maximum filth while bowling - Mishra and RP Singh - have batted like competent ones, should India consider giving the new ball to Sehwag?,\" wonders Arvind Ramanan. I guess the problem would be getting England to bat again in the first place.2nd over: India 9-0 (Sehwag 5, Dravid 4) Sehwag as a waft at Broad's second delivery. He doesn't make contact though, which is just as well for Prior who doesn't quite take the ball. He calms down after that scare and leaves the rest of the balls in the over. Here's Sanjeev Sinha: \"Now that this tour has been a farce for every Indian except Dravid, which cricketer's house will most likely be stoned and ads discontinued (or reduced)? Dhoni or Tendulkar? I really do hope India is rid of the bullcrap hero worship after this series. They have been slaughtered so badly, this England team could have been accused of war crimes. On the other hand, the Indian team's performance also ranks nothing short of a crime.\"3rd over: India 19-0 (Sehwag 14, Dravid 5) Sharp running from India off the firsr delivery gets them a single. Sehwag then hits Anderson for successive fours. The first is off a full toss, the second is off a ball that leaves him little room but he still manages to cut it away. Anderson looks unhappy, not sure whether that's through injury or being thrashed about.4th over: India 23-0 (Sehwag 16, Dravid 5) Sehwag wants to go for three but Dravid isn't quite as fresh as him and is ahppy to settle for two. \"Tell Phil (not the other Phil Sawyer, the one who's working) Sawyer not to be too despondent,\" says Phil (the one who's normally working, but isn't today) Sawyer. I suspect neither of us are Phil Sawyer the ex-member of the Spencer Davis Group and renowned New Age musician. Neither are we Rear Admiral Phillip G Sawyer, United States Navy. There's a lot of us about.\" Well, four at the last count.5th over: India 25-0 (Sehwag 16, Dravid 7)  Jimmy nearly strikes, it brushed Dravid's pads but was just going over the stumps. A much better over from Anderson who had looked wayward in the first two of his overs. \"Whilst on the subject of names in song titles, how about the 1995 hit for Australian band TISM - (He'll Never Be An) Ol' Man River all about the demise of River Phoenix and a host of other celebrities who died from excess,\" says Oliver Waters. \"It even has the prophetic line 'Odds on it'll be Michael Jackson next.'\" It wasn't a massive stretch to guess the Michael Jackson one though, was it?6th over: India 25-0 (Sehwag 16, Dravid 7) One of Jimmy Anderson's delieveries kept very low in the last over. Not great news if you're trying to save a test. England have a team conference on how to deal with Sehwag's attacks. Broad gives him very little width and that does the job. For now. And that's tea. Alan Gardner will be your host for the evening session.TEA7th over: India 25-0 (Sehwag 16, Dravid 7) Howzit? There are, I think, 28 overs left in the day, with Rahul Dravid looking to extend his lead at the top of the balls-faced in Test cricket list. The Wall might still be standing at the end of today, just as he was at 11am this morning, but I can't see Sehwag being able to contain himself. It should be fun either way. Hello ...REFERRAL! Dravid 7 c Cook b Swann (7th over: India 25-0) Darn, the jinx didn't quite work. Dravid called for the review immediately after Rod Tucker had raised his finger and that's because he knew that the ball had not hit his bat before ballooning off the pad to short leg. There were two sounds, but the second was the toe of the bat jamming into the ground, so the decision is overturned and Dravid endures.8th over: India 27-0 (Sehwag 17, Dravid 8) It will be Broad gliding in from the other end, left arm thrust out at the delivery stride, his right uncoiling like a striking snake to spit the ball at Virender Sehwag. Sehwag leaves one, which was well judged, the delivery floating a few inches past the off timbre. \"Since this is a cricket strand discussing songs with people's names in the title, surely the most appropriate track would be Telemachus Brown's 'Wrong About Justin Langer'?,\" offers Jamie Kirkaldy. Would that be featuring former South Africa sort-of-quick Roger Telemachus on vocals, Jamie? Two for one.9th over: India 31-0 (Sehwag 17, Dravid 8) Ah, me, Dravid gets another life, though he's surely deserved them after his efforts in the series! A regulation off-breaks from Swann fails to turn (in fact, it almost appears to doosra in the opposite direction), taking the thinnest of edges on its way past Dravid's defensive push. Prior, behind the stumps, was also defeated, with the ball running all the way for four - though umpire Tucker signals them as byes. Dravid is the kind of batsman to make you rue such misses.10th over: India 33-0 (Sehwag 18, Dravid 8) There's some more shenanigans behind the bowler's arm, with Sehwag pulling away during Broad's run-up. Come on people, sit down and watch the flippin' game, eh. Think of it as like being in the theatre, except with a lot more booze. Two singles off the over. \"Now I've got Phil Sawyer envy (4th over). I wish I was Rear Admiral Phillip G Sawyer. He sounds much more dynamic than myself (mind you, I'd like to think he sometimes gets called in to explain to his superiors that he's not spending all his time on some Limey sports blog).\" That was from Phil (not the one who's normally working but isn't today, the musician or the rear admiral) Sawyer, in case you were wondering.11th over: India 43-0 (Sehwag 23, Dravid 9) Speaking of the theatre, there's more drama in this Swann over than your average Alan Bennett production. First the close fielders again go up for a bat-pad offering against Sehwag but, as with the Dravid appeal, there was only pad involved. Viru responds by clumping the next ball through the covers for four, a booming shot that whistled away like a volley from a rifle. He then essays a loose drive at Swann's fifth delivery, completely misses and whirls round to see the ball disappearing to the boundary for byes, having turned past the stumps and evaded Prior on its way through.12th over: India 48-0 (Sehwag 24, Dravid 13) Dravid pings an on-drive down the ground off Broad, a glorious shot. Good job India remembered to pack this guy, eh? \"With a name like Phil Sawyer, you kind of expect to be confused with at least quarter of world's population. But imagine my surprise when a couple of years ago I got an email asking me whether I can start a new job \u2026 in Florida. After a short investigation, it turned out there is another Alexander Agranovsky in Orlando with a CV remarkably similar to my own \u2026 I don't know why I did not just got on the plane and turn out there on Monday.\" Where do you hail from Alexander Agranovsky? And would the other Alexander Agranovsky have fancied swapping Orlando for, say, Burnley, if the mix up had been made the other way round?WICKET! Dravid 13 c Cook b Swann (13th over: India 49-1) Again England are hopping around, claiming a catch at short leg. Tucker, once bitten, turns down the appeal but Strauss calls for the appeal straight away. It's very, very difficult to see evidence of an edge, either via Hot Spot or slow-motion replays, so you'd think the onfield umpire would not be overruled ... Hang on, he has been! Dravid is out!13th over: India 49-1 (Sehwag 24, Dravid 13) Well, Dravid accepts the decision with the good grace you would expect but I really can't see how the third umpire could have been sure that Tucker's original call was wrong. England couldn't give a fig either way.14th over: India 54-1 (Sehwag 25, Laxman 4) On comes Bresnan to bend his back. A single to Sehwag takes India to fifty and brings the new batsman VVS Laxman on strike and Yorkshire's finest has him groping outside off straight away. The India No3 then gets four down to third man as he tried to withdraw his bat - credit to the bowler, but Laxman is off the mark. \"Continuing the sterling riff of today, I was always a fan of Space's Ballad of Tom Jones, featuring Cerys Matthew, which neatly segues into Catatonia's Mulder & Scully. That all feels very much of another era. To update our day at the Oval, Andi, our cricket debutant, has had to leave, but I'm sure Pulp's sublime 'Do You Remember The First Time?' will carry him home.\" Was the full eight-hour experience too much for him, Guy Hornsby? You've got some work to do.15th over: India 59-1 (Sehwag 30, Laxman 4) Sehwag tees off golf-style, chipping Swann's first ball down the ground for four. He looks to have got his eye in, at the fourth attempt. \"Phil Sawyers should think themselves lucky. Dan Smiths are so common that my sister went out with one for 5 years, paying NO regard to the incest rumours that the family tree would spark among our descendants.\" You'd think at the very least it would have conjured up some scarring mental images. I was actually emailing my friend Dan Smith earlier today. Or is that still you?16th over: India 60-1 (Sehwag 31, Laxman 4) Sehwag is correct in his defence against Bresnan, sitting back in his crease and presenting the maker's name to the bowler. This one should make it into the fourth day, which will make Josh Robinson and a few thousand others happy. \"Surely the most appropriate cricketing song with a name in the title is 'David Watts' by the Kinks referring to the Scottish cricketer (David) Fraser Watts. We all wish we could be like him, as he was voted 24th most eligible bachelor in Scotland in a Scotland on Sunday special feature in 2006.\" Is that like being the 24th tallest man in Lilliput, Oliver Waters?17th over: India 63-1 (Sehwag 32, Laxman 5) I think there's going to be plenty of work for short leg and leg slip this evening, as another Swann delivery pops off the pads, sparking excited yelps all round. It's like an episode of the Inbetweeners when one of them sees a girl. In fact, like every episode of the Inbetweeners. \"Dravid decision,\" says Kathleen McKenna, ungrammatically. \"Surely there has to be definite evidence to overturn on-field decision? Maybe third umpire agrees with Michael Vaughan and thinks Dravid applied vaseline to his bat.\" I agree, I don't see how the third umpire could have been that confident. I haven't seen a side-on Hot Spot replay and Snicko is apparently inconclusive.18th over: India 64-1 (Sehwag 33, Laxman 5) Just one run off Bresnan's over. \"Odd about Phil Sawyer. I was under the impression he was dead. The is a distinct recollection of attending his funeral in Ohio about 6 years ago. Of course I have given little attention to his movements since then,\" says Paul D Greggson, although his email address is David R. Hartman. This is getting confusing.WICKET! Sehwag 33 b Swann (19th over: India 64-2) There's the death rattle of timbers shivering and India's chances of saving this game are disappearing up the Swanny. It was the regulation off-spinner, which Sehwag had been keen to take on, but this gripped and turned enough to beat the attempted drive and topple the bails, the ball striking middle stump about halfway up.REFERRAL! Tendulkar 4 st Prior b Swann (19th over: India 68-2) Has Tendulkar been bamboozled? He edged his first ball for four, playing for spin where there was none, and then was again beaten outside off-stump, Prior whipping off the bails with Jack Russell-ish tenacity. Tendulkar had lifted his foot - but he'd jammed it back down again by the time the bails were broken, so he survives.20th over: India 75-2 (Laxman 5, Tendulkar 8) Chances of Tendulkar getting his 100th hundred on what is likely to be his last innings in England? That would raise a few smiles, though it would scarcely make up for the disappoint for followers of India after this series. The players are taking drinks, so here's Math(ematic?) Scott with a whip smart song/band/name suggestion: \"Surely Dravid should be known as Tenacious D?\" And here is Johnny B: \"I once went to watch a Grindcore band known as LBW at a dark, dingy Indie club in York. They wore cricket whites and had a catchy little number known as 'Geoffrey Boycott Twice Twice', in which every word in the song was repeated twice, twice. Not that anyone could understand what they were singing about of course.\"21st over: India 77-2 (Laxman 8, Tendulkar 9) Laxman and Tendulkar exchange singles off Swann, who's enjoying his more central role in proceedings, after having to watch the pacemen steam off with the plaudits in previous Tests, as Alexander Agranovsky notes. \"Graham Swann is also quite a popular name \u2013 so popular, in fact, that there are at least two of them who look exactly the same. I am glad that England have managed to locate the right one for this game, after letting his lookalike to play in the previous 3 matches.\" He's had a quiet series but that's really a reflection of little England have needed to turn to him.22nd over: India 81-2 (Laxman 8, Tendulkar 13) \"Come on India,\" a female voice can be heard calling. She sounds a bit forlorn, like a mum urging her child on to finish the sack race even as they fall on their mush for umpteenth time. Tendulkar caresses a four off of his pads, a top shot. \"I really hope the BCCI do a Bucknor on Davies and have him removed,\" writes Amirali Abdullah. \"I looked at the replay 15 times - no hotspot, no discernible sound, and the only hint of the minutest deflection might be if you saw the replay from the cover camera. And with the ball turning prodigiously to leg, it's very hard to gauge. There's no way a third umpire can give that out without some guesswork. I'm lenient on on-field umpires, because that's very hard. There's no excuse for a third umpire sitting comfy and looking at 15 replays.\" I agree.23rd over: India 93-2 (Laxman 20, Tendulkar 13) Laxman takes three consecutive fours off Swann, though the second was via an inside edge that was played so late the bat was still almost horizontal as the ball squeezed its way past the stumps and down to fine leg. The first was more authoritative, thrashed through cover, while the third again had leg slip interested as Laxman attempted a back-foot swivel that deflected off the glove.24th over: India 96-2 (Laxman 22, Tendulkar 14) Chance dropped! It was a difficult opportunity off Laxman, who was looking to on-drive Anderson, on in place of Bresnan. He played late at the ball and got a thick edge that seemed to wrong-foot Strauss, who was moving left and then had to plunge right, getting his fingertips to the ball as it burst through and away for a couple. \"Does anyone feel like Dravid is Matt Le Tissier, having just been sent off in a last game Southampton relegation dog-fight, watching in the dressing room, having fought all season, on his own... the chumps he was playing with throwing away the last chance to salvage some pride... Feels like that somehow...\" I know India have been bad on this tour, Keiran Betteley, but I don't think they've quite descended that far yet. They're not Bangladesh.25th over: India 102-2 (Laxman 22, Tendulkar 20) Tendulkar cuts hard for four and that brings up the hundred for India. There's still some work to do, if they're going to make England bat again, particularly with Gambhir's dodgy noggin to factor in. \"TMS have just had a correspondent claim that Hotspot showed a clear nick, from a front-on view, which is what the 3rd umpire saw. Can't argue with that (or can you?).\" Well, John Starbuck, that's interesting, as I'm pretty sure the front view of Hot Spot showed no such thing. There was a mark on the bat, but that was visible before it became adjacent with the ball, and it didn't seem to get any more intense afterwards. The Sky commentators seem to be of the same opinion, from that front angle.26th over: India 102-2 (Laxman 22, Tendulkar 20) A maiden from Anderson. Sky have come up with a boiled down Snicko, with as much of the background noise removed as possible, which appears to indicate the thinnest of edges as the ball passed the bat. Of course, it may have been a correct call, and Dravid didn't seem outraged by it but the principle holds that the third umpire should really be overturning decision that are manifestly wrong.27th over: India 107-2 (Laxman 22, Tendulkar 24) Tendulkar swishes three with a back-foot force off Swann, before Laxman is hit on the knee roll, the ball looping up over Little Ian Bell at leg slip. There wasn't any bat involved, though. Later in the over Tendulkar pushes a defensive shot firmly back towards Swann, though the ball doesn't carry all the way. \"Surely the most appropriate cricketer/song title mesh is [effing]Hell, It's Fred Titmus by Half Man, Half Biscuit?\". Keep up, Jos Roberts. I did that one all the way back in the 61st over.28th over: India 115-2 (Laxman 22, Tendulkar 32) Some eejits behind the bowler's arm again hold up play, while Tendulkar twice takes four off Anderson, though I didn't see how as I was talking to Lutz. Whaddyagonnado? Anyway, Dan Lucas makes a good point: \"Interesting take from Amirali on the umpires there (22nd over). Personally I hope the BCCI pisses off and stops thinking it can have umpires removed just because they don't like a decision.\"29th over: India 118-2 (Laxman 24, Tendulkar 32) It sounds ominously like there might be a Mexican wave rippling around The Oval, signalling The Death of All Sport. Three runs off Swann and India are ticking along quite nicely.WICKET! Laxman 24 b Anderson (30th over: India 118-3) Bowled 'im! Laxman has been done by an almost identical jaffer to the one that did for him at Trent Bridge. In truth the delivery didn't do an awful lot, but it was superbly directed, decapitating the top of off-stump and too quick for the Indian batsman, who played slightly down the Bakerloo there.30th over: India 121-3 (Tendulkar 34, Mishra 1) Mishra is the new man at the crease, as India hedge their bets, sending out a tailender who's actually quite handy as nightwatchman. If England can nip him out as well, they'll be happy as a bloke with a name that almost rhymes but doesn't quite. Like Barry.31st over: India 124-3 (Tendulkar 34, Mishra 4) Swann is into his 13th over of the innings, and his 34th of the day. England are coiled around the visitors, gently squeezing them into submission, like Jake 'The Snake' Roberts with his python. Soon, very soon, India will be able to sleep. Oliver Waters is back with heartbreaking news: \"Unfortunately for the women of Scotland, according to the Kinks David Watts is \"gay and fancy free\". The editors at Scotland on Sunday did not take this vital piece of information into account whilst compiling their bachelor list back in 2006.\" There'll be four more overs before the close.32nd over: India 124-3 (Tendulkar 34, Mishra 4) Anderson sends down a maiden to Mishra, who's fairly handy with the bat. If he could bowl, he'd be an all-rounder.33rd over: India 124-3 (Tendulkar 34, Mishra 4) England may have missed a trick here - Prior broke the bails after Tendulkar had gone forward to Swann and missed the ball but, even though the batsman shifted his foot off the ground as he tried to make sure he was back, no one appealed. The replays show that Tendulkar's foot was just in the air, even though it was for a fraction of a second, as the wicket was broken. It wasn't quite like this Laxman dismissal in the Caribbean a few weeks ago, but it was just as out.34th over: India 128-3 (Tendulkar 34, Mishra 8) Mishra gets four off Anderson's final ball, despite Pietersen's dive on the boundary. \"Why did Dhoni sent in Mishra as a nightwatchman? Shouldn't he have sent in Raina as a nightwatchman to protect Mishra?\" Arf and, indeed, arf, Sanjeev Sinha. Right, one last over for the day. Can England get another wicket and put a tin lid on this match?35th over: India 129-3 (Tendulkar 35, Mishra 8) Tendulkar deals comfortably enough with Swann, taking a single off the fourth delivery and that is pretty much that. There might be one or two anxiety dreams for him tonight - having escaped that stumping, there'll be plenty turning up at The Oval tomorrow expecting him to finally reach that landmark 100th hundred. If you can't get a ticket, then you're welcome, as ever, to partake of the OBO's reasonably priced hospitality once again. Thanks for your emails. See you tomorrow, bye!", "tags": ["India in England 2011", "England cricket team", "India cricket team", "Cricket", "Over by over reports"], "title": "England v India \u2013 as it happened | Alan Gardner and Tom Lutz"},{"date": "2011-11-29T16:38:46Z", "country": "india", "content": "Last Thursday, an irate man agitated over rising prices walked up to India's agriculture minister Sharad Pawar, and slapped him, an assault captured on live television. At 9.73%, the inflation rate is reaching the politically significant double digits that can spell trouble for governments. Prices of essential commodities, including staple foods, have been rising just as the rupee has been falling, making imports dearer.The slap was coincidental, but the ruling United Progressive Alliance (UPA) sprang into action, and later in the week it permitted foreign investors a majority stake in India's retail sector. One effect, the government hopes, will be more efficient distribution and less wastage, leading to reduced prices for consumers. That may happen if everything goes to plan. But leaving nothing to chance, the opposition \u2013 left and right \u2013 protested. Two chief ministers \u2013 from Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh \u2013 said they wouldn't allow foreign-owned retail superstores in their states. Uma Bharti, a Hindu nationalist politician, has threatened to burn the first supermarket she finds.The government remains, for the moment, committed to the step. The commerce ministry claims 10m jobs will in fact be created, 60% of them in logistics, and several officials say the decision will jumpstart India's stalled economic reforms.That it does. Investors have been lukewarm about India's commitment to reforms, given the lacklustre enthusiasm for liberalisation within the ruling coalition in recent years. The UPA rode to power arguing that reforms (which it had initiated in 1991) were not benefiting the poor. Instead of hastening reforms to deepen their reach to include the poor, the government slowed the pace, and, at times, reversed the direction. Opening the retail sector, the government hopes, will revive interest in India.Critics of the retail policy make five points. One, India doesn't need foreign retailers, since homegrown companies and traditional markets are doing the job well. Two, independent stores will close, leading to job losses. Three, profits will go to foreigners. Four, there will be sterile homogeneity and Indian cities will look like cities anywhere else. And five, the government hasn't built consensus.None of the objections has merit. India's retail sector of $28bn is expected to grow by a factor of nine within a decade. Domestic demand is rising, and it is simply not possible for India's archaic retail sector to meet that demand. Inbuilt inefficiencies and wastage in distribution and storage account for why, according to some estimates, as much as 40% of food production doesn't reach consumers. Fifty million children in India are malnourished. Food often rots in antiquated state-run warehouses, or in transit. Profit-driven, cost-conscious companies will avoid waste and loss, the government hopes.While some retail stores may have to close, and some jobs may be lost, superstores will need workers. Some 70% of Indians claim to be farmers, but one of the country's worst-kept secrets is the extent of disguised unemployment in Indian agriculture. Many farmers work in the countryside on small, unproductive tracts, earning minimal income, and are heavily in debt. Organised retail will absorb some of this labour force in better-paying jobs. It is common to see small shops employ workers without proper contracts, making them work long hours, not permitting them to join unions. Many shops depend on child labour. A well-regulated retail sector will presumably curtail some of these abuses. More important, the cheaper prices can only be good in a country where the public distribution network doesn't work properly, and 40% of the people are poor.There is organised retail in India. Besides new, swanky malls, the country has its Indian-owned super bazaars and supermarkets. Some critics say India doesn't need foreign companies. But that can apply to almost every other sector in the country. From its independence in 1947 until 1991, India attempted to be semi-self-sufficient, during which its economy grew at an abysmally low rate, making no difference to the level of poverty.Many Indian consumers resent the critics. They find nothing romantic about their hard lives and in these modern conveniences they see signs of development.To be sure, there is one risk: that the foreign-owned retail companies may find Indian consumers more discerning than others, as some major brands have discovered. The Indian marketplace is littered with examples of well-known brands failing. Should the consumers remain loyal to their cornerstores and should the big box retailers fail, the government will have to resist the politically convenient temptation of bailing out the failures by offering them subsidiaries at taxpayers' expense.But consumers will gain. Large superstores are inflation-busters. As Charles Fishman shows in his book, The Wal-Mart Effect, big stores squeeze costs and pass gains to consumers because of competition, and they contributed to the sustained low inflation in the US. Modern supermarkets can help tame inflation in India. They may also create jobs, prevent waste and improve logistics. Why would anyone oppose them?", "tags": ["Global development", "India", "World news", "Supermarkets", "Retail industry", "Business"], "title": "India needs western supermarkets | Salil Tripathi"},{"date": "2011-11-29T16:38:46Z", "country": "india", "content": "Last Thursday, an irate man agitated over rising prices walked up to India's agriculture minister Sharad Pawar, and slapped him, an assault captured on live television. At 9.73%, the inflation rate is reaching the politically significant double digits that can spell trouble for governments. Prices of essential commodities, including staple foods, have been rising just as the rupee has been falling, making imports dearer.The slap was coincidental, but the ruling United Progressive Alliance (UPA) sprang into action, and later in the week it permitted foreign investors a majority stake in India's retail sector. One effect, the government hopes, will be more efficient distribution and less wastage, leading to reduced prices for consumers. That may happen if everything goes to plan. But leaving nothing to chance, the opposition \u2013 left and right \u2013 protested. Two chief ministers \u2013 from Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh \u2013 said they wouldn't allow foreign-owned retail superstores in their states. Uma Bharti, a Hindu nationalist politician, has threatened to burn the first supermarket she finds.The government remains, for the moment, committed to the step. The commerce ministry claims 10m jobs will in fact be created, 60% of them in logistics, and several officials say the decision will jumpstart India's stalled economic reforms.That it does. Investors have been lukewarm about India's commitment to reforms, given the lacklustre enthusiasm for liberalisation within the ruling coalition in recent years. The UPA rode to power arguing that reforms (which it had initiated in 1991) were not benefiting the poor. Instead of hastening reforms to deepen their reach to include the poor, the government slowed the pace, and, at times, reversed the direction. Opening the retail sector, the government hopes, will revive interest in India.Critics of the retail policy make five points. One, India doesn't need foreign retailers, since homegrown companies and traditional markets are doing the job well. Two, independent stores will close, leading to job losses. Three, profits will go to foreigners. Four, there will be sterile homogeneity and Indian cities will look like cities anywhere else. And five, the government hasn't built consensus.None of the objections has merit. India's retail sector of $28bn is expected to grow by a factor of nine within a decade. Domestic demand is rising, and it is simply not possible for India's archaic retail sector to meet that demand. Inbuilt inefficiencies and wastage in distribution and storage account for why, according to some estimates, as much as 40% of food production doesn't reach consumers. Fifty million children in India are malnourished. Food often rots in antiquated state-run warehouses, or in transit. Profit-driven, cost-conscious companies will avoid waste and loss, the government hopes.While some retail stores may have to close, and some jobs may be lost, superstores will need workers. Some 70% of Indians claim to be farmers, but one of the country's worst-kept secrets is the extent of disguised unemployment in Indian agriculture. Many farmers work in the countryside on small, unproductive tracts, earning minimal income, and are heavily in debt. Organised retail will absorb some of this labour force in better-paying jobs. It is common to see small shops employ workers without proper contracts, making them work long hours, not permitting them to join unions. Many shops depend on child labour. A well-regulated retail sector will presumably curtail some of these abuses. More important, the cheaper prices can only be good in a country where the public distribution network doesn't work properly, and 40% of the people are poor.There is organised retail in India. Besides new, swanky malls, the country has its Indian-owned super bazaars and supermarkets. Some critics say India doesn't need foreign companies. But that can apply to almost every other sector in the country. From its independence in 1947 until 1991, India attempted to be semi-self-sufficient, during which its economy grew at an abysmally low rate, making no difference to the level of poverty.Many Indian consumers resent the critics. They find nothing romantic about their hard lives and in these modern conveniences they see signs of development.To be sure, there is one risk: that the foreign-owned retail companies may find Indian consumers more discerning than others, as some major brands have discovered. The Indian marketplace is littered with examples of well-known brands failing. Should the consumers remain loyal to their cornerstores and should the big box retailers fail, the government will have to resist the politically convenient temptation of bailing out the failures by offering them subsidiaries at taxpayers' expense.But consumers will gain. Large superstores are inflation-busters. As Charles Fishman shows in his book, The Wal-Mart Effect, big stores squeeze costs and pass gains to consumers because of competition, and they contributed to the sustained low inflation in the US. Modern supermarkets can help tame inflation in India. They may also create jobs, prevent waste and improve logistics. Why would anyone oppose them?", "tags": ["Global development", "India", "World news", "Supermarkets", "Retail industry", "Business"], "title": "India needs western supermarkets | Salil Tripathi"},{"date": "2011-12-05T19:15:01Z", "country": "india", "content": "Dev Anand, who died in London on Sunday, aged 88, was the first and greatest matinee idol of Hindi cinema, an actor and director whose soft unaffected performances resonated with Indians across the social spectrum. With a career that began as India emerged from imperial rule in the late 1940s, he became a figure recognisable to anyone in the country \u2013 regardless of class, religion, caste or region. He was central to the essential role that cinema played after independence in binding the disparate peoples of India into a nation with a shared culture and sense of belonging. And he did so by appealing to the humour, gentleness and strong sense of justice that are hallmark qualities of the ordinary Indian. Gregory Peck and Dirk Bogarde are the two closest comparisons that come to mind from western cinema.His loss will be felt not only in the movie industry but among common Indians who, amid the continuing poverty and frustrating lack of progress that came in the immediate decades after British rule, looked to films to provide the messages of hope that India's politicians and stagnant economy could not. His success was in no small measure due to his appeal among women, who enjoyed his playful serenades and flirtations with numerous beauties.In what was then an extremely conservative society, Bollywood, and stars like Anand in particular, gently pressed back boundaries by portraying relations between the sexes as those between companions and equals. Like Gandhi and Nehru, the radicals of Indian cinema sought to rebel without causing outrage. His 1965 film, Guide, was a tale of love between a single man and a married woman \u2013 an extremely taboo subject that was nonetheless finessed into a popular and perennially beloved hit.His films observed that tacit Bollywood ethic of casting as diversely as possible. In that sense, he helped to familiarise his audience with the possibility of Hindus, Muslims and others living in amity in a plural India. He was born a Hindu, but his leading lady in Guide was the Muslim star Waheeda Rehman, and one of the great loves of his life was the actress Suraiya \u2013 also a Muslim.Always ahead of his time, he introduced mainstream India to noir-style crime movies with Baazi in 1951, which led to a spate of such films in the 1950s and entrenched the genre in the public's taste. In 1971 he both starred in and directed Hare Rama Hare Krishna, which addressed India's bourgeoning hippie scene and the sex, drugs and rock-and-roll that came with it. It contained a famous near-scandalous music routine in which a feisty young woman spends an evening high on dope in the midst of a motley gang of long-haired and tie-dye-clad westerners.Though his films were not as successful in later life, respect for him endured. Remembered for his palpable on-screen sweetness, he gave Indians an inspiring image and narratives of integrity and decency, giving them an optimism that, until recently, the circumstances of the country rarely gave cause for.", "tags": ["Bollywood", "Film", "India", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Dev Anand's films united and inspired India"},{"date": "2011-11-29T16:38:46Z", "country": "india", "content": "Last Thursday, an irate man agitated over rising prices walked up to India's agriculture minister Sharad Pawar, and slapped him, an assault captured on live television. At 9.73%, the inflation rate is reaching the politically significant double digits that can spell trouble for governments. Prices of essential commodities, including staple foods, have been rising just as the rupee has been falling, making imports dearer.The slap was coincidental, but the ruling United Progressive Alliance (UPA) sprang into action, and later in the week it permitted foreign investors a majority stake in India's retail sector. One effect, the government hopes, will be more efficient distribution and less wastage, leading to reduced prices for consumers. That may happen if everything goes to plan. But leaving nothing to chance, the opposition \u2013 left and right \u2013 protested. Two chief ministers \u2013 from Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh \u2013 said they wouldn't allow foreign-owned retail superstores in their states. Uma Bharti, a Hindu nationalist politician, has threatened to burn the first supermarket she finds.The government remains, for the moment, committed to the step. The commerce ministry claims 10m jobs will in fact be created, 60% of them in logistics, and several officials say the decision will jumpstart India's stalled economic reforms.That it does. Investors have been lukewarm about India's commitment to reforms, given the lacklustre enthusiasm for liberalisation within the ruling coalition in recent years. The UPA rode to power arguing that reforms (which it had initiated in 1991) were not benefiting the poor. Instead of hastening reforms to deepen their reach to include the poor, the government slowed the pace, and, at times, reversed the direction. Opening the retail sector, the government hopes, will revive interest in India.Critics of the retail policy make five points. One, India doesn't need foreign retailers, since homegrown companies and traditional markets are doing the job well. Two, independent stores will close, leading to job losses. Three, profits will go to foreigners. Four, there will be sterile homogeneity and Indian cities will look like cities anywhere else. And five, the government hasn't built consensus.None of the objections has merit. India's retail sector of $28bn is expected to grow by a factor of nine within a decade. Domestic demand is rising, and it is simply not possible for India's archaic retail sector to meet that demand. Inbuilt inefficiencies and wastage in distribution and storage account for why, according to some estimates, as much as 40% of food production doesn't reach consumers. Fifty million children in India are malnourished. Food often rots in antiquated state-run warehouses, or in transit. Profit-driven, cost-conscious companies will avoid waste and loss, the government hopes.While some retail stores may have to close, and some jobs may be lost, superstores will need workers. Some 70% of Indians claim to be farmers, but one of the country's worst-kept secrets is the extent of disguised unemployment in Indian agriculture. Many farmers work in the countryside on small, unproductive tracts, earning minimal income, and are heavily in debt. Organised retail will absorb some of this labour force in better-paying jobs. It is common to see small shops employ workers without proper contracts, making them work long hours, not permitting them to join unions. Many shops depend on child labour. A well-regulated retail sector will presumably curtail some of these abuses. More important, the cheaper prices can only be good in a country where the public distribution network doesn't work properly, and 40% of the people are poor.There is organised retail in India. Besides new, swanky malls, the country has its Indian-owned super bazaars and supermarkets. Some critics say India doesn't need foreign companies. But that can apply to almost every other sector in the country. From its independence in 1947 until 1991, India attempted to be semi-self-sufficient, during which its economy grew at an abysmally low rate, making no difference to the level of poverty.Many Indian consumers resent the critics. They find nothing romantic about their hard lives and in these modern conveniences they see signs of development.To be sure, there is one risk: that the foreign-owned retail companies may find Indian consumers more discerning than others, as some major brands have discovered. The Indian marketplace is littered with examples of well-known brands failing. Should the consumers remain loyal to their cornerstores and should the big box retailers fail, the government will have to resist the politically convenient temptation of bailing out the failures by offering them subsidiaries at taxpayers' expense.But consumers will gain. Large superstores are inflation-busters. As Charles Fishman shows in his book, The Wal-Mart Effect, big stores squeeze costs and pass gains to consumers because of competition, and they contributed to the sustained low inflation in the US. Modern supermarkets can help tame inflation in India. They may also create jobs, prevent waste and improve logistics. Why would anyone oppose them?", "tags": ["Global development", "India", "World news", "Supermarkets", "Retail industry", "Business"], "title": "India needs western supermarkets | Salil Tripathi"},{"date": "2011-12-05T19:15:01Z", "country": "india", "content": "Dev Anand, who died in London on Sunday, aged 88, was the first and greatest matinee idol of Hindi cinema, an actor and director whose soft unaffected performances resonated with Indians across the social spectrum. With a career that began as India emerged from imperial rule in the late 1940s, he became a figure recognisable to anyone in the country \u2013 regardless of class, religion, caste or region. He was central to the essential role that cinema played after independence in binding the disparate peoples of India into a nation with a shared culture and sense of belonging. And he did so by appealing to the humour, gentleness and strong sense of justice that are hallmark qualities of the ordinary Indian. Gregory Peck and Dirk Bogarde are the two closest comparisons that come to mind from western cinema.His loss will be felt not only in the movie industry but among common Indians who, amid the continuing poverty and frustrating lack of progress that came in the immediate decades after British rule, looked to films to provide the messages of hope that India's politicians and stagnant economy could not. His success was in no small measure due to his appeal among women, who enjoyed his playful serenades and flirtations with numerous beauties.In what was then an extremely conservative society, Bollywood, and stars like Anand in particular, gently pressed back boundaries by portraying relations between the sexes as those between companions and equals. Like Gandhi and Nehru, the radicals of Indian cinema sought to rebel without causing outrage. His 1965 film, Guide, was a tale of love between a single man and a married woman \u2013 an extremely taboo subject that was nonetheless finessed into a popular and perennially beloved hit.His films observed that tacit Bollywood ethic of casting as diversely as possible. In that sense, he helped to familiarise his audience with the possibility of Hindus, Muslims and others living in amity in a plural India. He was born a Hindu, but his leading lady in Guide was the Muslim star Waheeda Rehman, and one of the great loves of his life was the actress Suraiya \u2013 also a Muslim.Always ahead of his time, he introduced mainstream India to noir-style crime movies with Baazi in 1951, which led to a spate of such films in the 1950s and entrenched the genre in the public's taste. In 1971 he both starred in and directed Hare Rama Hare Krishna, which addressed India's bourgeoning hippie scene and the sex, drugs and rock-and-roll that came with it. It contained a famous near-scandalous music routine in which a feisty young woman spends an evening high on dope in the midst of a motley gang of long-haired and tie-dye-clad westerners.Though his films were not as successful in later life, respect for him endured. Remembered for his palpable on-screen sweetness, he gave Indians an inspiring image and narratives of integrity and decency, giving them an optimism that, until recently, the circumstances of the country rarely gave cause for.", "tags": ["Bollywood", "Film", "India", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Dev Anand's films united and inspired India"},{"date": "2011-11-23T17:57:19Z", "country": "india", "content": "It can be difficult when travelling by train in India to ensure you disembark at the correct city. Especially when it's 5am, and everybody around you is busy giggling at your pronunciation. We're in Pune (pronounced Poo-nay, apparently) for the second year of the NH7 Weekender. India has a smattering of music festivals, but these are mostly traditional events or trance affairs aimed at tourists unable to wait for their Ibiza kicks. NH7 is an attempt to create a Glastonbury, or perhaps more precisely, Lovebox-style event in India.India's middle class is now estimated at more than 300 million people \u2013 that's a lot of folk with disposable income, internet access, and perhaps an interest in exploring non-traditional culture.\"There aren't any Indian festivals that concentrate on non-Bollywood music,\" NH7 co-organiser Stephen Budd explains. \"The view was Indian audiences would never want to go.\" A few years ago Budd's business partner, Vijay Nair, was struggling to fill a five-band bill in Mumbai, now they're both filling festival schedules. Understandably perhaps, Budd says they faced skepticism. \"The industry view was there's not enough interest in things that aren't Bollywood led. [Myself and Vijay] lamented that the only British acts visiting India then were the Stings and Simply Reds of the world, when kids wanted to see Mumford and Sons and Basement Jaxx, but no one was bringing them over.\"Fans desperate to see the few western acts playing India have lately encountered a second problem: this year has been disastrous for gig cancellations, including Bryan Adams, Akon and Metallica .This organisational chaos is something NH7 wants to put right. Arriving on site, the event feels clean and well mapped out, in a country with a reputation for the opposite. We never wait more than 60 seconds for one of the (regularly cleaned) Portaloos. There's a buzz in the air \u2013 none of the acts are received poorly. \"Has anybody heard of grime music?\" London's Riz MC asks the crowd. Three people cheer. But no one is standing still once introductions have been made.The festival programme advises \"getting from one stage to another will require a fair amount of walking\". But it took us less than four minutes to get from one end of the site to the other. Not exactly Glastonbury, then.There's corporate branding. For most of ex-Radio 1 DJ Bobby Friction's set, a vodka logo is dragged around the screen like a four-year-old playing Etch A Sketch. India is a fan of brash marketing, and here it is overwhelming. As are the lineup changes, which seem to occur throughout the day. Thankfully, everybody on site is tweeting so it's easy to keep them updated. And aside from the music, there's plenty going on. There's a convention of 30 tattoo artists on site. Fans can pay for food, drinks and merchandise via an impressive system of RFID cards and micropayments. With the same cards they can also choose to log performances they watch and have the story of their weekend automatically updated on Facebook. Well, that was the idea \u2013 the system collapses minutes after the gates open and stays down all weekend.Indian acts get the biggest reception. The audience for the secret set by Mumbai rockers Zero is easily the most frenzied of the weekend. The mass singalongs when the Raghu Dixit Project play Mysore Se Aayi and Indian Ocean play Bandeh rival the most euphoric Glastonbury moments.An almighty party closes the festival on Sunday night, as artists from across the bill collaborate on covering western hits (Blur and Metallica ) and Indian folk classics. Finishing with a rave, Indian Ocean singer Rahul Ram freestyles in Hindi over Underworld's Born Slippy. It's a brilliant set to close the festival.Afterwards, nobody is disappointed. The festival sells all 7,000 tickets for the Saturday and Sunday, and says it has made a profit in its second year, something \"unheard of in the UK festival market\", claims Budd. \"Next year I expect we'll get some really high-end younger artists willing to take the leap. I'd love to see Chase and Status, Dry the River, even the Vaccines come and play with their Indian counterparts.\" NH7 has certainly proved there is an appetite for it.", "tags": ["Music", "Pop and rock", "Indie", "Festivals", "Culture", "Festivals", "India holidays", "Asia", "Travel"], "title": "India goes indie at the NH7 Weekender"},{"date": "2011-11-29T16:38:46Z", "country": "india", "content": "Last Thursday, an irate man agitated over rising prices walked up to India's agriculture minister Sharad Pawar, and slapped him, an assault captured on live television. At 9.73%, the inflation rate is reaching the politically significant double digits that can spell trouble for governments. Prices of essential commodities, including staple foods, have been rising just as the rupee has been falling, making imports dearer.The slap was coincidental, but the ruling United Progressive Alliance (UPA) sprang into action, and later in the week it permitted foreign investors a majority stake in India's retail sector. One effect, the government hopes, will be more efficient distribution and less wastage, leading to reduced prices for consumers. That may happen if everything goes to plan. But leaving nothing to chance, the opposition \u2013 left and right \u2013 protested. Two chief ministers \u2013 from Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh \u2013 said they wouldn't allow foreign-owned retail superstores in their states. Uma Bharti, a Hindu nationalist politician, has threatened to burn the first supermarket she finds.The government remains, for the moment, committed to the step. The commerce ministry claims 10m jobs will in fact be created, 60% of them in logistics, and several officials say the decision will jumpstart India's stalled economic reforms.That it does. Investors have been lukewarm about India's commitment to reforms, given the lacklustre enthusiasm for liberalisation within the ruling coalition in recent years. The UPA rode to power arguing that reforms (which it had initiated in 1991) were not benefiting the poor. Instead of hastening reforms to deepen their reach to include the poor, the government slowed the pace, and, at times, reversed the direction. Opening the retail sector, the government hopes, will revive interest in India.Critics of the retail policy make five points. One, India doesn't need foreign retailers, since homegrown companies and traditional markets are doing the job well. Two, independent stores will close, leading to job losses. Three, profits will go to foreigners. Four, there will be sterile homogeneity and Indian cities will look like cities anywhere else. And five, the government hasn't built consensus.None of the objections has merit. India's retail sector of $28bn is expected to grow by a factor of nine within a decade. Domestic demand is rising, and it is simply not possible for India's archaic retail sector to meet that demand. Inbuilt inefficiencies and wastage in distribution and storage account for why, according to some estimates, as much as 40% of food production doesn't reach consumers. Fifty million children in India are malnourished. Food often rots in antiquated state-run warehouses, or in transit. Profit-driven, cost-conscious companies will avoid waste and loss, the government hopes.While some retail stores may have to close, and some jobs may be lost, superstores will need workers. Some 70% of Indians claim to be farmers, but one of the country's worst-kept secrets is the extent of disguised unemployment in Indian agriculture. Many farmers work in the countryside on small, unproductive tracts, earning minimal income, and are heavily in debt. Organised retail will absorb some of this labour force in better-paying jobs. It is common to see small shops employ workers without proper contracts, making them work long hours, not permitting them to join unions. Many shops depend on child labour. A well-regulated retail sector will presumably curtail some of these abuses. More important, the cheaper prices can only be good in a country where the public distribution network doesn't work properly, and 40% of the people are poor.There is organised retail in India. Besides new, swanky malls, the country has its Indian-owned super bazaars and supermarkets. Some critics say India doesn't need foreign companies. But that can apply to almost every other sector in the country. From its independence in 1947 until 1991, India attempted to be semi-self-sufficient, during which its economy grew at an abysmally low rate, making no difference to the level of poverty.Many Indian consumers resent the critics. They find nothing romantic about their hard lives and in these modern conveniences they see signs of development.To be sure, there is one risk: that the foreign-owned retail companies may find Indian consumers more discerning than others, as some major brands have discovered. The Indian marketplace is littered with examples of well-known brands failing. Should the consumers remain loyal to their cornerstores and should the big box retailers fail, the government will have to resist the politically convenient temptation of bailing out the failures by offering them subsidiaries at taxpayers' expense.But consumers will gain. Large superstores are inflation-busters. As Charles Fishman shows in his book, The Wal-Mart Effect, big stores squeeze costs and pass gains to consumers because of competition, and they contributed to the sustained low inflation in the US. Modern supermarkets can help tame inflation in India. They may also create jobs, prevent waste and improve logistics. Why would anyone oppose them?", "tags": ["Global development", "India", "World news", "Supermarkets", "Retail industry", "Business"], "title": "India needs western supermarkets | Salil Tripathi"},{"date": "2011-12-05T19:15:01Z", "country": "india", "content": "Dev Anand, who died in London on Sunday, aged 88, was the first and greatest matinee idol of Hindi cinema, an actor and director whose soft unaffected performances resonated with Indians across the social spectrum. With a career that began as India emerged from imperial rule in the late 1940s, he became a figure recognisable to anyone in the country \u2013 regardless of class, religion, caste or region. He was central to the essential role that cinema played after independence in binding the disparate peoples of India into a nation with a shared culture and sense of belonging. And he did so by appealing to the humour, gentleness and strong sense of justice that are hallmark qualities of the ordinary Indian. Gregory Peck and Dirk Bogarde are the two closest comparisons that come to mind from western cinema.His loss will be felt not only in the movie industry but among common Indians who, amid the continuing poverty and frustrating lack of progress that came in the immediate decades after British rule, looked to films to provide the messages of hope that India's politicians and stagnant economy could not. His success was in no small measure due to his appeal among women, who enjoyed his playful serenades and flirtations with numerous beauties.In what was then an extremely conservative society, Bollywood, and stars like Anand in particular, gently pressed back boundaries by portraying relations between the sexes as those between companions and equals. Like Gandhi and Nehru, the radicals of Indian cinema sought to rebel without causing outrage. His 1965 film, Guide, was a tale of love between a single man and a married woman \u2013 an extremely taboo subject that was nonetheless finessed into a popular and perennially beloved hit.His films observed that tacit Bollywood ethic of casting as diversely as possible. In that sense, he helped to familiarise his audience with the possibility of Hindus, Muslims and others living in amity in a plural India. He was born a Hindu, but his leading lady in Guide was the Muslim star Waheeda Rehman, and one of the great loves of his life was the actress Suraiya \u2013 also a Muslim.Always ahead of his time, he introduced mainstream India to noir-style crime movies with Baazi in 1951, which led to a spate of such films in the 1950s and entrenched the genre in the public's taste. In 1971 he both starred in and directed Hare Rama Hare Krishna, which addressed India's bourgeoning hippie scene and the sex, drugs and rock-and-roll that came with it. It contained a famous near-scandalous music routine in which a feisty young woman spends an evening high on dope in the midst of a motley gang of long-haired and tie-dye-clad westerners.Though his films were not as successful in later life, respect for him endured. Remembered for his palpable on-screen sweetness, he gave Indians an inspiring image and narratives of integrity and decency, giving them an optimism that, until recently, the circumstances of the country rarely gave cause for.", "tags": ["Bollywood", "Film", "India", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Dev Anand's films united and inspired India"},{"date": "2011-11-23T17:57:19Z", "country": "india", "content": "It can be difficult when travelling by train in India to ensure you disembark at the correct city. Especially when it's 5am, and everybody around you is busy giggling at your pronunciation. We're in Pune (pronounced Poo-nay, apparently) for the second year of the NH7 Weekender. India has a smattering of music festivals, but these are mostly traditional events or trance affairs aimed at tourists unable to wait for their Ibiza kicks. NH7 is an attempt to create a Glastonbury, or perhaps more precisely, Lovebox-style event in India.India's middle class is now estimated at more than 300 million people \u2013 that's a lot of folk with disposable income, internet access, and perhaps an interest in exploring non-traditional culture.\"There aren't any Indian festivals that concentrate on non-Bollywood music,\" NH7 co-organiser Stephen Budd explains. \"The view was Indian audiences would never want to go.\" A few years ago Budd's business partner, Vijay Nair, was struggling to fill a five-band bill in Mumbai, now they're both filling festival schedules. Understandably perhaps, Budd says they faced skepticism. \"The industry view was there's not enough interest in things that aren't Bollywood led. [Myself and Vijay] lamented that the only British acts visiting India then were the Stings and Simply Reds of the world, when kids wanted to see Mumford and Sons and Basement Jaxx, but no one was bringing them over.\"Fans desperate to see the few western acts playing India have lately encountered a second problem: this year has been disastrous for gig cancellations, including Bryan Adams, Akon and Metallica .This organisational chaos is something NH7 wants to put right. Arriving on site, the event feels clean and well mapped out, in a country with a reputation for the opposite. We never wait more than 60 seconds for one of the (regularly cleaned) Portaloos. There's a buzz in the air \u2013 none of the acts are received poorly. \"Has anybody heard of grime music?\" London's Riz MC asks the crowd. Three people cheer. But no one is standing still once introductions have been made.The festival programme advises \"getting from one stage to another will require a fair amount of walking\". But it took us less than four minutes to get from one end of the site to the other. Not exactly Glastonbury, then.There's corporate branding. For most of ex-Radio 1 DJ Bobby Friction's set, a vodka logo is dragged around the screen like a four-year-old playing Etch A Sketch. India is a fan of brash marketing, and here it is overwhelming. As are the lineup changes, which seem to occur throughout the day. Thankfully, everybody on site is tweeting so it's easy to keep them updated. And aside from the music, there's plenty going on. There's a convention of 30 tattoo artists on site. Fans can pay for food, drinks and merchandise via an impressive system of RFID cards and micropayments. With the same cards they can also choose to log performances they watch and have the story of their weekend automatically updated on Facebook. Well, that was the idea \u2013 the system collapses minutes after the gates open and stays down all weekend.Indian acts get the biggest reception. The audience for the secret set by Mumbai rockers Zero is easily the most frenzied of the weekend. The mass singalongs when the Raghu Dixit Project play Mysore Se Aayi and Indian Ocean play Bandeh rival the most euphoric Glastonbury moments.An almighty party closes the festival on Sunday night, as artists from across the bill collaborate on covering western hits (Blur and Metallica ) and Indian folk classics. Finishing with a rave, Indian Ocean singer Rahul Ram freestyles in Hindi over Underworld's Born Slippy. It's a brilliant set to close the festival.Afterwards, nobody is disappointed. The festival sells all 7,000 tickets for the Saturday and Sunday, and says it has made a profit in its second year, something \"unheard of in the UK festival market\", claims Budd. \"Next year I expect we'll get some really high-end younger artists willing to take the leap. I'd love to see Chase and Status, Dry the River, even the Vaccines come and play with their Indian counterparts.\" NH7 has certainly proved there is an appetite for it.", "tags": ["Music", "Pop and rock", "Indie", "Festivals", "Culture", "Festivals", "India holidays", "Asia", "Travel"], "title": "India goes indie at the NH7 Weekender"},{"date": "2011-11-22T14:08:01Z", "country": "india", "content": "Basanti extended her basket towards me. Made from pale wooden strips of bamboo, all it seemed to hold was a bit of grass at the bottom. But the grass was moving. She pulled the green fluff out in a single handful, revealing her latest catch. To me, it was such stuff as nightmares are made on: each with two bulbous claws, three spindly legs on either side of their dark blue shells. I didn't care if twine had been wrapped around their pinchers like straightjackets. Their beady eyes said otherwise.But to Basanti and the other women of Mahinsa, these crabs are their livelihood. Home to 150 families, or about 800 people, the village is one of over a hundred scattered along the shores of Chilika Lake, in India's eastern state of Orissa. The lake is technically a coastal lagoon, the country's largest, and its grey brackish waters shelter crabs, prawns, fish, 160 species of migratory birds and even the rare Irrawaddy dolphin, which helps attract valuable tourism.Three years ago, Mahinsa had no toilets and barely any trees. Today, NGO projects have tried to change this: planting palm trees, setting up vermicompost piles, and installing water pumps that children wash their feet at before racing each other back to school. Most importantly, they've brought a livelihood.I thought of the proverb, \"Give a man a fish, feed him for a day. Teach a man to fish and feed him for a lifetime,\" as a group of women led us around the island, their saris a kaleidoscope of fuchsia, turquoise and bubblegum pink. At times the track was sandy, lined with prickly pear cacti and tiny white flowers. The air smelled of the ocean, of early morning fish markets, and long-billed sandpipers strutted along the shore while white cranes watched over them.We followed a network of dirt paths to the ponds where they cultivate the crabs. While some harvests can bring in as much as $300, most average about $200. With six harvests a year and 10 to 15 women sharing the profits, that works out to about $80 a year for each woman. This extra income can then be used to educate their children, pay for healthcare, or build up their savings for a rainy day.And with the threat of monsoons and cyclones never far off, rainy days are sure to come.Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a 'Letter from' one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions for our Letter From page \u2013 they should focus on giving our readers a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send submissions to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["India", "Environment", "Environmental sustainability"], "title": "Letter from India: the lagoon of crabs"},{"date": "2011-11-29T16:38:46Z", "country": "india", "content": "Last Thursday, an irate man agitated over rising prices walked up to India's agriculture minister Sharad Pawar, and slapped him, an assault captured on live television. At 9.73%, the inflation rate is reaching the politically significant double digits that can spell trouble for governments. Prices of essential commodities, including staple foods, have been rising just as the rupee has been falling, making imports dearer.The slap was coincidental, but the ruling United Progressive Alliance (UPA) sprang into action, and later in the week it permitted foreign investors a majority stake in India's retail sector. One effect, the government hopes, will be more efficient distribution and less wastage, leading to reduced prices for consumers. That may happen if everything goes to plan. But leaving nothing to chance, the opposition \u2013 left and right \u2013 protested. Two chief ministers \u2013 from Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh \u2013 said they wouldn't allow foreign-owned retail superstores in their states. Uma Bharti, a Hindu nationalist politician, has threatened to burn the first supermarket she finds.The government remains, for the moment, committed to the step. The commerce ministry claims 10m jobs will in fact be created, 60% of them in logistics, and several officials say the decision will jumpstart India's stalled economic reforms.That it does. Investors have been lukewarm about India's commitment to reforms, given the lacklustre enthusiasm for liberalisation within the ruling coalition in recent years. The UPA rode to power arguing that reforms (which it had initiated in 1991) were not benefiting the poor. Instead of hastening reforms to deepen their reach to include the poor, the government slowed the pace, and, at times, reversed the direction. Opening the retail sector, the government hopes, will revive interest in India.Critics of the retail policy make five points. One, India doesn't need foreign retailers, since homegrown companies and traditional markets are doing the job well. Two, independent stores will close, leading to job losses. Three, profits will go to foreigners. Four, there will be sterile homogeneity and Indian cities will look like cities anywhere else. And five, the government hasn't built consensus.None of the objections has merit. India's retail sector of $28bn is expected to grow by a factor of nine within a decade. Domestic demand is rising, and it is simply not possible for India's archaic retail sector to meet that demand. Inbuilt inefficiencies and wastage in distribution and storage account for why, according to some estimates, as much as 40% of food production doesn't reach consumers. Fifty million children in India are malnourished. Food often rots in antiquated state-run warehouses, or in transit. Profit-driven, cost-conscious companies will avoid waste and loss, the government hopes.While some retail stores may have to close, and some jobs may be lost, superstores will need workers. Some 70% of Indians claim to be farmers, but one of the country's worst-kept secrets is the extent of disguised unemployment in Indian agriculture. Many farmers work in the countryside on small, unproductive tracts, earning minimal income, and are heavily in debt. Organised retail will absorb some of this labour force in better-paying jobs. It is common to see small shops employ workers without proper contracts, making them work long hours, not permitting them to join unions. Many shops depend on child labour. A well-regulated retail sector will presumably curtail some of these abuses. More important, the cheaper prices can only be good in a country where the public distribution network doesn't work properly, and 40% of the people are poor.There is organised retail in India. Besides new, swanky malls, the country has its Indian-owned super bazaars and supermarkets. Some critics say India doesn't need foreign companies. But that can apply to almost every other sector in the country. From its independence in 1947 until 1991, India attempted to be semi-self-sufficient, during which its economy grew at an abysmally low rate, making no difference to the level of poverty.Many Indian consumers resent the critics. They find nothing romantic about their hard lives and in these modern conveniences they see signs of development.To be sure, there is one risk: that the foreign-owned retail companies may find Indian consumers more discerning than others, as some major brands have discovered. The Indian marketplace is littered with examples of well-known brands failing. Should the consumers remain loyal to their cornerstores and should the big box retailers fail, the government will have to resist the politically convenient temptation of bailing out the failures by offering them subsidiaries at taxpayers' expense.But consumers will gain. Large superstores are inflation-busters. As Charles Fishman shows in his book, The Wal-Mart Effect, big stores squeeze costs and pass gains to consumers because of competition, and they contributed to the sustained low inflation in the US. Modern supermarkets can help tame inflation in India. They may also create jobs, prevent waste and improve logistics. Why would anyone oppose them?", "tags": ["Global development", "India", "World news", "Supermarkets", "Retail industry", "Business"], "title": "India needs western supermarkets | Salil Tripathi"},{"date": "2011-12-05T19:15:01Z", "country": "india", "content": "Dev Anand, who died in London on Sunday, aged 88, was the first and greatest matinee idol of Hindi cinema, an actor and director whose soft unaffected performances resonated with Indians across the social spectrum. With a career that began as India emerged from imperial rule in the late 1940s, he became a figure recognisable to anyone in the country \u2013 regardless of class, religion, caste or region. He was central to the essential role that cinema played after independence in binding the disparate peoples of India into a nation with a shared culture and sense of belonging. And he did so by appealing to the humour, gentleness and strong sense of justice that are hallmark qualities of the ordinary Indian. Gregory Peck and Dirk Bogarde are the two closest comparisons that come to mind from western cinema.His loss will be felt not only in the movie industry but among common Indians who, amid the continuing poverty and frustrating lack of progress that came in the immediate decades after British rule, looked to films to provide the messages of hope that India's politicians and stagnant economy could not. His success was in no small measure due to his appeal among women, who enjoyed his playful serenades and flirtations with numerous beauties.In what was then an extremely conservative society, Bollywood, and stars like Anand in particular, gently pressed back boundaries by portraying relations between the sexes as those between companions and equals. Like Gandhi and Nehru, the radicals of Indian cinema sought to rebel without causing outrage. His 1965 film, Guide, was a tale of love between a single man and a married woman \u2013 an extremely taboo subject that was nonetheless finessed into a popular and perennially beloved hit.His films observed that tacit Bollywood ethic of casting as diversely as possible. In that sense, he helped to familiarise his audience with the possibility of Hindus, Muslims and others living in amity in a plural India. He was born a Hindu, but his leading lady in Guide was the Muslim star Waheeda Rehman, and one of the great loves of his life was the actress Suraiya \u2013 also a Muslim.Always ahead of his time, he introduced mainstream India to noir-style crime movies with Baazi in 1951, which led to a spate of such films in the 1950s and entrenched the genre in the public's taste. In 1971 he both starred in and directed Hare Rama Hare Krishna, which addressed India's bourgeoning hippie scene and the sex, drugs and rock-and-roll that came with it. It contained a famous near-scandalous music routine in which a feisty young woman spends an evening high on dope in the midst of a motley gang of long-haired and tie-dye-clad westerners.Though his films were not as successful in later life, respect for him endured. Remembered for his palpable on-screen sweetness, he gave Indians an inspiring image and narratives of integrity and decency, giving them an optimism that, until recently, the circumstances of the country rarely gave cause for.", "tags": ["Bollywood", "Film", "India", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Dev Anand's films united and inspired India"},{"date": "2011-11-23T17:57:19Z", "country": "india", "content": "It can be difficult when travelling by train in India to ensure you disembark at the correct city. Especially when it's 5am, and everybody around you is busy giggling at your pronunciation. We're in Pune (pronounced Poo-nay, apparently) for the second year of the NH7 Weekender. India has a smattering of music festivals, but these are mostly traditional events or trance affairs aimed at tourists unable to wait for their Ibiza kicks. NH7 is an attempt to create a Glastonbury, or perhaps more precisely, Lovebox-style event in India.India's middle class is now estimated at more than 300 million people \u2013 that's a lot of folk with disposable income, internet access, and perhaps an interest in exploring non-traditional culture.\"There aren't any Indian festivals that concentrate on non-Bollywood music,\" NH7 co-organiser Stephen Budd explains. \"The view was Indian audiences would never want to go.\" A few years ago Budd's business partner, Vijay Nair, was struggling to fill a five-band bill in Mumbai, now they're both filling festival schedules. Understandably perhaps, Budd says they faced skepticism. \"The industry view was there's not enough interest in things that aren't Bollywood led. [Myself and Vijay] lamented that the only British acts visiting India then were the Stings and Simply Reds of the world, when kids wanted to see Mumford and Sons and Basement Jaxx, but no one was bringing them over.\"Fans desperate to see the few western acts playing India have lately encountered a second problem: this year has been disastrous for gig cancellations, including Bryan Adams, Akon and Metallica .This organisational chaos is something NH7 wants to put right. Arriving on site, the event feels clean and well mapped out, in a country with a reputation for the opposite. We never wait more than 60 seconds for one of the (regularly cleaned) Portaloos. There's a buzz in the air \u2013 none of the acts are received poorly. \"Has anybody heard of grime music?\" London's Riz MC asks the crowd. Three people cheer. But no one is standing still once introductions have been made.The festival programme advises \"getting from one stage to another will require a fair amount of walking\". But it took us less than four minutes to get from one end of the site to the other. Not exactly Glastonbury, then.There's corporate branding. For most of ex-Radio 1 DJ Bobby Friction's set, a vodka logo is dragged around the screen like a four-year-old playing Etch A Sketch. India is a fan of brash marketing, and here it is overwhelming. As are the lineup changes, which seem to occur throughout the day. Thankfully, everybody on site is tweeting so it's easy to keep them updated. And aside from the music, there's plenty going on. There's a convention of 30 tattoo artists on site. Fans can pay for food, drinks and merchandise via an impressive system of RFID cards and micropayments. With the same cards they can also choose to log performances they watch and have the story of their weekend automatically updated on Facebook. Well, that was the idea \u2013 the system collapses minutes after the gates open and stays down all weekend.Indian acts get the biggest reception. The audience for the secret set by Mumbai rockers Zero is easily the most frenzied of the weekend. The mass singalongs when the Raghu Dixit Project play Mysore Se Aayi and Indian Ocean play Bandeh rival the most euphoric Glastonbury moments.An almighty party closes the festival on Sunday night, as artists from across the bill collaborate on covering western hits (Blur and Metallica ) and Indian folk classics. Finishing with a rave, Indian Ocean singer Rahul Ram freestyles in Hindi over Underworld's Born Slippy. It's a brilliant set to close the festival.Afterwards, nobody is disappointed. The festival sells all 7,000 tickets for the Saturday and Sunday, and says it has made a profit in its second year, something \"unheard of in the UK festival market\", claims Budd. \"Next year I expect we'll get some really high-end younger artists willing to take the leap. I'd love to see Chase and Status, Dry the River, even the Vaccines come and play with their Indian counterparts.\" NH7 has certainly proved there is an appetite for it.", "tags": ["Music", "Pop and rock", "Indie", "Festivals", "Culture", "Festivals", "India holidays", "Asia", "Travel"], "title": "India goes indie at the NH7 Weekender"},{"date": "2011-11-22T14:08:01Z", "country": "india", "content": "Basanti extended her basket towards me. Made from pale wooden strips of bamboo, all it seemed to hold was a bit of grass at the bottom. But the grass was moving. She pulled the green fluff out in a single handful, revealing her latest catch. To me, it was such stuff as nightmares are made on: each with two bulbous claws, three spindly legs on either side of their dark blue shells. I didn't care if twine had been wrapped around their pinchers like straightjackets. Their beady eyes said otherwise.But to Basanti and the other women of Mahinsa, these crabs are their livelihood. Home to 150 families, or about 800 people, the village is one of over a hundred scattered along the shores of Chilika Lake, in India's eastern state of Orissa. The lake is technically a coastal lagoon, the country's largest, and its grey brackish waters shelter crabs, prawns, fish, 160 species of migratory birds and even the rare Irrawaddy dolphin, which helps attract valuable tourism.Three years ago, Mahinsa had no toilets and barely any trees. Today, NGO projects have tried to change this: planting palm trees, setting up vermicompost piles, and installing water pumps that children wash their feet at before racing each other back to school. Most importantly, they've brought a livelihood.I thought of the proverb, \"Give a man a fish, feed him for a day. Teach a man to fish and feed him for a lifetime,\" as a group of women led us around the island, their saris a kaleidoscope of fuchsia, turquoise and bubblegum pink. At times the track was sandy, lined with prickly pear cacti and tiny white flowers. The air smelled of the ocean, of early morning fish markets, and long-billed sandpipers strutted along the shore while white cranes watched over them.We followed a network of dirt paths to the ponds where they cultivate the crabs. While some harvests can bring in as much as $300, most average about $200. With six harvests a year and 10 to 15 women sharing the profits, that works out to about $80 a year for each woman. This extra income can then be used to educate their children, pay for healthcare, or build up their savings for a rainy day.And with the threat of monsoons and cyclones never far off, rainy days are sure to come.Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a 'Letter from' one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions for our Letter From page \u2013 they should focus on giving our readers a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send submissions to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["India", "Environment", "Environmental sustainability"], "title": "Letter from India: the lagoon of crabs"},{"date": "2011-10-28T11:22:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "I went to India in 2009 to watch the massive efforts taking place to wipe out polio from its remaining enclaves. What I saw, in Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh, was pretty impressive - I wrote about it here.The photographer with whom I was working, Jean-Marc Giboux, went back recently to Bihar, the hardest region for the vaccinators to reach. This is the film of his visit, which offers hope that we may finish the job. India has not had a polio case now for nine months.", "tags": ["Polio", "India"], "title": "Good news on polio vaccination from India"},{"date": "2011-11-29T16:38:46Z", "country": "india", "content": "Last Thursday, an irate man agitated over rising prices walked up to India's agriculture minister Sharad Pawar, and slapped him, an assault captured on live television. At 9.73%, the inflation rate is reaching the politically significant double digits that can spell trouble for governments. Prices of essential commodities, including staple foods, have been rising just as the rupee has been falling, making imports dearer.The slap was coincidental, but the ruling United Progressive Alliance (UPA) sprang into action, and later in the week it permitted foreign investors a majority stake in India's retail sector. One effect, the government hopes, will be more efficient distribution and less wastage, leading to reduced prices for consumers. That may happen if everything goes to plan. But leaving nothing to chance, the opposition \u2013 left and right \u2013 protested. Two chief ministers \u2013 from Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh \u2013 said they wouldn't allow foreign-owned retail superstores in their states. Uma Bharti, a Hindu nationalist politician, has threatened to burn the first supermarket she finds.The government remains, for the moment, committed to the step. The commerce ministry claims 10m jobs will in fact be created, 60% of them in logistics, and several officials say the decision will jumpstart India's stalled economic reforms.That it does. Investors have been lukewarm about India's commitment to reforms, given the lacklustre enthusiasm for liberalisation within the ruling coalition in recent years. The UPA rode to power arguing that reforms (which it had initiated in 1991) were not benefiting the poor. Instead of hastening reforms to deepen their reach to include the poor, the government slowed the pace, and, at times, reversed the direction. Opening the retail sector, the government hopes, will revive interest in India.Critics of the retail policy make five points. One, India doesn't need foreign retailers, since homegrown companies and traditional markets are doing the job well. Two, independent stores will close, leading to job losses. Three, profits will go to foreigners. Four, there will be sterile homogeneity and Indian cities will look like cities anywhere else. And five, the government hasn't built consensus.None of the objections has merit. India's retail sector of $28bn is expected to grow by a factor of nine within a decade. Domestic demand is rising, and it is simply not possible for India's archaic retail sector to meet that demand. Inbuilt inefficiencies and wastage in distribution and storage account for why, according to some estimates, as much as 40% of food production doesn't reach consumers. Fifty million children in India are malnourished. Food often rots in antiquated state-run warehouses, or in transit. Profit-driven, cost-conscious companies will avoid waste and loss, the government hopes.While some retail stores may have to close, and some jobs may be lost, superstores will need workers. Some 70% of Indians claim to be farmers, but one of the country's worst-kept secrets is the extent of disguised unemployment in Indian agriculture. Many farmers work in the countryside on small, unproductive tracts, earning minimal income, and are heavily in debt. Organised retail will absorb some of this labour force in better-paying jobs. It is common to see small shops employ workers without proper contracts, making them work long hours, not permitting them to join unions. Many shops depend on child labour. A well-regulated retail sector will presumably curtail some of these abuses. More important, the cheaper prices can only be good in a country where the public distribution network doesn't work properly, and 40% of the people are poor.There is organised retail in India. Besides new, swanky malls, the country has its Indian-owned super bazaars and supermarkets. Some critics say India doesn't need foreign companies. But that can apply to almost every other sector in the country. From its independence in 1947 until 1991, India attempted to be semi-self-sufficient, during which its economy grew at an abysmally low rate, making no difference to the level of poverty.Many Indian consumers resent the critics. They find nothing romantic about their hard lives and in these modern conveniences they see signs of development.To be sure, there is one risk: that the foreign-owned retail companies may find Indian consumers more discerning than others, as some major brands have discovered. The Indian marketplace is littered with examples of well-known brands failing. Should the consumers remain loyal to their cornerstores and should the big box retailers fail, the government will have to resist the politically convenient temptation of bailing out the failures by offering them subsidiaries at taxpayers' expense.But consumers will gain. Large superstores are inflation-busters. As Charles Fishman shows in his book, The Wal-Mart Effect, big stores squeeze costs and pass gains to consumers because of competition, and they contributed to the sustained low inflation in the US. Modern supermarkets can help tame inflation in India. They may also create jobs, prevent waste and improve logistics. Why would anyone oppose them?", "tags": ["Global development", "India", "World news", "Supermarkets", "Retail industry", "Business"], "title": "India needs western supermarkets | Salil Tripathi"},{"date": "2011-12-05T19:15:01Z", "country": "india", "content": "Dev Anand, who died in London on Sunday, aged 88, was the first and greatest matinee idol of Hindi cinema, an actor and director whose soft unaffected performances resonated with Indians across the social spectrum. With a career that began as India emerged from imperial rule in the late 1940s, he became a figure recognisable to anyone in the country \u2013 regardless of class, religion, caste or region. He was central to the essential role that cinema played after independence in binding the disparate peoples of India into a nation with a shared culture and sense of belonging. And he did so by appealing to the humour, gentleness and strong sense of justice that are hallmark qualities of the ordinary Indian. Gregory Peck and Dirk Bogarde are the two closest comparisons that come to mind from western cinema.His loss will be felt not only in the movie industry but among common Indians who, amid the continuing poverty and frustrating lack of progress that came in the immediate decades after British rule, looked to films to provide the messages of hope that India's politicians and stagnant economy could not. His success was in no small measure due to his appeal among women, who enjoyed his playful serenades and flirtations with numerous beauties.In what was then an extremely conservative society, Bollywood, and stars like Anand in particular, gently pressed back boundaries by portraying relations between the sexes as those between companions and equals. Like Gandhi and Nehru, the radicals of Indian cinema sought to rebel without causing outrage. His 1965 film, Guide, was a tale of love between a single man and a married woman \u2013 an extremely taboo subject that was nonetheless finessed into a popular and perennially beloved hit.His films observed that tacit Bollywood ethic of casting as diversely as possible. In that sense, he helped to familiarise his audience with the possibility of Hindus, Muslims and others living in amity in a plural India. He was born a Hindu, but his leading lady in Guide was the Muslim star Waheeda Rehman, and one of the great loves of his life was the actress Suraiya \u2013 also a Muslim.Always ahead of his time, he introduced mainstream India to noir-style crime movies with Baazi in 1951, which led to a spate of such films in the 1950s and entrenched the genre in the public's taste. In 1971 he both starred in and directed Hare Rama Hare Krishna, which addressed India's bourgeoning hippie scene and the sex, drugs and rock-and-roll that came with it. It contained a famous near-scandalous music routine in which a feisty young woman spends an evening high on dope in the midst of a motley gang of long-haired and tie-dye-clad westerners.Though his films were not as successful in later life, respect for him endured. Remembered for his palpable on-screen sweetness, he gave Indians an inspiring image and narratives of integrity and decency, giving them an optimism that, until recently, the circumstances of the country rarely gave cause for.", "tags": ["Bollywood", "Film", "India", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Dev Anand's films united and inspired India"},{"date": "2011-11-23T17:57:19Z", "country": "india", "content": "It can be difficult when travelling by train in India to ensure you disembark at the correct city. Especially when it's 5am, and everybody around you is busy giggling at your pronunciation. We're in Pune (pronounced Poo-nay, apparently) for the second year of the NH7 Weekender. India has a smattering of music festivals, but these are mostly traditional events or trance affairs aimed at tourists unable to wait for their Ibiza kicks. NH7 is an attempt to create a Glastonbury, or perhaps more precisely, Lovebox-style event in India.India's middle class is now estimated at more than 300 million people \u2013 that's a lot of folk with disposable income, internet access, and perhaps an interest in exploring non-traditional culture.\"There aren't any Indian festivals that concentrate on non-Bollywood music,\" NH7 co-organiser Stephen Budd explains. \"The view was Indian audiences would never want to go.\" A few years ago Budd's business partner, Vijay Nair, was struggling to fill a five-band bill in Mumbai, now they're both filling festival schedules. Understandably perhaps, Budd says they faced skepticism. \"The industry view was there's not enough interest in things that aren't Bollywood led. [Myself and Vijay] lamented that the only British acts visiting India then were the Stings and Simply Reds of the world, when kids wanted to see Mumford and Sons and Basement Jaxx, but no one was bringing them over.\"Fans desperate to see the few western acts playing India have lately encountered a second problem: this year has been disastrous for gig cancellations, including Bryan Adams, Akon and Metallica .This organisational chaos is something NH7 wants to put right. Arriving on site, the event feels clean and well mapped out, in a country with a reputation for the opposite. We never wait more than 60 seconds for one of the (regularly cleaned) Portaloos. There's a buzz in the air \u2013 none of the acts are received poorly. \"Has anybody heard of grime music?\" London's Riz MC asks the crowd. Three people cheer. But no one is standing still once introductions have been made.The festival programme advises \"getting from one stage to another will require a fair amount of walking\". But it took us less than four minutes to get from one end of the site to the other. Not exactly Glastonbury, then.There's corporate branding. For most of ex-Radio 1 DJ Bobby Friction's set, a vodka logo is dragged around the screen like a four-year-old playing Etch A Sketch. India is a fan of brash marketing, and here it is overwhelming. As are the lineup changes, which seem to occur throughout the day. Thankfully, everybody on site is tweeting so it's easy to keep them updated. And aside from the music, there's plenty going on. There's a convention of 30 tattoo artists on site. Fans can pay for food, drinks and merchandise via an impressive system of RFID cards and micropayments. With the same cards they can also choose to log performances they watch and have the story of their weekend automatically updated on Facebook. Well, that was the idea \u2013 the system collapses minutes after the gates open and stays down all weekend.Indian acts get the biggest reception. The audience for the secret set by Mumbai rockers Zero is easily the most frenzied of the weekend. The mass singalongs when the Raghu Dixit Project play Mysore Se Aayi and Indian Ocean play Bandeh rival the most euphoric Glastonbury moments.An almighty party closes the festival on Sunday night, as artists from across the bill collaborate on covering western hits (Blur and Metallica ) and Indian folk classics. Finishing with a rave, Indian Ocean singer Rahul Ram freestyles in Hindi over Underworld's Born Slippy. It's a brilliant set to close the festival.Afterwards, nobody is disappointed. The festival sells all 7,000 tickets for the Saturday and Sunday, and says it has made a profit in its second year, something \"unheard of in the UK festival market\", claims Budd. \"Next year I expect we'll get some really high-end younger artists willing to take the leap. I'd love to see Chase and Status, Dry the River, even the Vaccines come and play with their Indian counterparts.\" NH7 has certainly proved there is an appetite for it.", "tags": ["Music", "Pop and rock", "Indie", "Festivals", "Culture", "Festivals", "India holidays", "Asia", "Travel"], "title": "India goes indie at the NH7 Weekender"},{"date": "2011-11-22T14:08:01Z", "country": "india", "content": "Basanti extended her basket towards me. Made from pale wooden strips of bamboo, all it seemed to hold was a bit of grass at the bottom. But the grass was moving. She pulled the green fluff out in a single handful, revealing her latest catch. To me, it was such stuff as nightmares are made on: each with two bulbous claws, three spindly legs on either side of their dark blue shells. I didn't care if twine had been wrapped around their pinchers like straightjackets. Their beady eyes said otherwise.But to Basanti and the other women of Mahinsa, these crabs are their livelihood. Home to 150 families, or about 800 people, the village is one of over a hundred scattered along the shores of Chilika Lake, in India's eastern state of Orissa. The lake is technically a coastal lagoon, the country's largest, and its grey brackish waters shelter crabs, prawns, fish, 160 species of migratory birds and even the rare Irrawaddy dolphin, which helps attract valuable tourism.Three years ago, Mahinsa had no toilets and barely any trees. Today, NGO projects have tried to change this: planting palm trees, setting up vermicompost piles, and installing water pumps that children wash their feet at before racing each other back to school. Most importantly, they've brought a livelihood.I thought of the proverb, \"Give a man a fish, feed him for a day. Teach a man to fish and feed him for a lifetime,\" as a group of women led us around the island, their saris a kaleidoscope of fuchsia, turquoise and bubblegum pink. At times the track was sandy, lined with prickly pear cacti and tiny white flowers. The air smelled of the ocean, of early morning fish markets, and long-billed sandpipers strutted along the shore while white cranes watched over them.We followed a network of dirt paths to the ponds where they cultivate the crabs. While some harvests can bring in as much as $300, most average about $200. With six harvests a year and 10 to 15 women sharing the profits, that works out to about $80 a year for each woman. This extra income can then be used to educate their children, pay for healthcare, or build up their savings for a rainy day.And with the threat of monsoons and cyclones never far off, rainy days are sure to come.Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a 'Letter from' one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions for our Letter From page \u2013 they should focus on giving our readers a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send submissions to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["India", "Environment", "Environmental sustainability"], "title": "Letter from India: the lagoon of crabs"},{"date": "2011-10-28T11:22:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "I went to India in 2009 to watch the massive efforts taking place to wipe out polio from its remaining enclaves. What I saw, in Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh, was pretty impressive - I wrote about it here.The photographer with whom I was working, Jean-Marc Giboux, went back recently to Bihar, the hardest region for the vaccinators to reach. This is the film of his visit, which offers hope that we may finish the job. India has not had a polio case now for nine months.", "tags": ["Polio", "India"], "title": "Good news on polio vaccination from India"},{"date": "2011-10-26T22:57:01Z", "country": "india", "content": "The Mercure is that very rare thing in India: a new, clean, comfortable, central hotel with mid-range pricing. OK, it's a chain with no character to speak of, but frankly, there is enough character in Hyderabad, and in India, already. Head out into the old town, to the lake, to the astonishing Golconda Fort \u2013 where by the 17th century they had plumbing and sanitation vastly superior to anything in Europe at the time \u2013 and return here. The hotel is quiet, the restaurant is perfectly acceptable, and there's a local place serving the classic local biryani opposite. +91 40 67122000, mercure.com, doubles from \u00a328 a nightIn a wonderful setting, on a canal in central Kerala, is Jos's homestay, Keralagramam. The beautiful, converted environment-friendly coconut workshop is only a few miles from Kochi (formally Cochin), and is big enough for an entire family, though toddlers might be a worry as there are lots of fishponds around the house. Ride to shrimp farms in a rickshaw, wander through the village, or just spend your time reading and enjoying fantastic home cooking. The fish curries are superb, but best are the rice flour pancakes stuffed with flaked coconut. +91 484 2240278, keralagramam.com, double in the main house \u00a345 a night B&B, the Backwater Cottage sleeps up to four \u2013 \u00a390 for two plus \u00a310 per extra bed, B&B While you're in classic, touristy Kerala, you should also spend a couple of nights at A Beach Symphony if you have the budget. This collection of individual luxury cottages (one has its own plunge pool the size of some hotels' swimming pools) just set back from stunning Marari beach near Alleppey, would be perfect for those who have had enough of traffic and temples. It's comfortable, spotless, and run by a lovely Belgian couple, with good food and efficient and friendly staff who can't do enough for you. You can simply enjoy the sea, the pool and an oily massage, or head off for birdwatching, to see nearby villages or to cruise the backwaters. The owners are genuinely interested in the local community, are involved in the local school and very pleased to show you around. Worth the cash and perfect for small kids. +91 9744 297 123, abeachsymphony.com, from \u00a395 a night low season (April to October) and \u00a3145 peak season The new Ginger Hotel near New Delhi railway station is a useful alternative to Par Ganj fleapits. It is good value for money, clean and very well located \u2013 a rare combination in a capital. It's boring and characterless, and all the better for it. As elsewhere in India, there's plenty of character on the street outside. A family room is around \u00a320, standard room \u00a315 (call 020-6629 2929 from the UK, gingerhotels.com).If top end luxury is what's required, try The Manor, a boutique hotel a little way out of the centre with a fabulous \"contemporary Indian\" restaurant attached. If you want something special at the end of the trip or just a blowout, stay or eat here. More for Wallpaper*-reading global voyagers than families, but the staff were delightful in the restaurant when we turned up with a one-year-old. The blue cheese-stuffed nan and the tandoori glazed Scottish salmon are fabulous. +91 9871 117968 themanordelhi.com, doubles from around \u00a3100 including one-way airport transfer, welcome drink and breakfast; tasting menu around \u00a330In Calcutta, it has to be the Tollygunge Club. It is tricky to get in as this private sporting club with the attached accommodation is meant to be for members' guests only. But find someone to sign you in or try simply calling (this is India, so all things are possible). There are lawns, two pools, an outside bar looking out over the golf course, the hum of Calcutta all around you and the chance to see the local elite do their showy, glossy, elite thing. +91 33 2473 4539, thetollygungeclub.com, doubles from \u00a350Four or five hours' drive from Delhi is Kesroli Fort, a 13th-century stronghold tastefully converted into a little hotel with spectacular views over surrounding countryside. Go in winter and take a scarf and a sweater against the chill at night; in summer, lots of sun cream and hats. Either way, borrow the hotel bikes and cycle through the fields and villages or simply walk for a rare opportunity to see rural life as it still is in much of India. It's rare anywhere to wake up to the sound of buffaloes lowing, rarer still to go out before breakfast and tramp trails through dew-sodden grass with the animals themselves being driven out before you. Food isn't fantastic, though perfectly palatable \u2013 but evening chai on the battlements is a fabulous Indian experience. Good for kids \u2013 though watch the staircases \u2013 and great for a break from the city or from the tourist trail between Agra and Jaipur. Nearby Alwar is worth a detour for castles, bazaars and general mayhem. +91 98294 99901, the-hill-fort-kesroli.neemranahotels.com, doubles from \u00a341 to \u00a388 but frankly go for one of the more expensive rooms \u2013 they are beautifully done with magnificent viewsIf you don't fancy a houseboat on the lake, try Greenacres, just out of the centre of town. A good, reasonable alternative , it has vast rooms with bags of character, at least in the old bit. The new rooms are functional but fine. The food is good \u2013 though sadly none of the great Kashmiri specialities appear to be there \u2013 and breakfast on the lawn is a pleasure. Family owned and it shows. +91 19 42313848, wazirhotels.com, doubles from \u00a340In Ahmedabad, in deeply interesting and sadly rarely visited Gujarat, there is the venerable House of MG, a tycoon's rambling family home in the city centre, now restored. Get a big room at the back or upstairs to avoid traffic noise. The restaurant upstairs does some of the best food I've tasted in India, a superb thali of Gujarati dishes, which rely on a subtle mix of textures and tastes rather than overpowering spices. The guided evening walk through the old city with its fantastic old bourgeois houses \u2013 havelis \u2013 is a joy. +91 79 25506946, houseofmg.com, doubles from \u00a392 a nightThe Chonor House is run by a foundation established in the mountain town in 1995 for the preservation of Tibet's arts and crafts, and by far the best place to stay in Dharamasala. Stunning murals decorate spacious rooms, they serve good coffee and it's set back from the bazaar's bustle and hooting Punjabi tourists. There's a pretty shaded terrace, a library, a TV room and a sense that the Dalai Lama is probably drinking tea or meditating in the room next door. Actually he is probably at the temple five minutes' walk away. +91 1892 246405, norbulingka.org/chonor_house, doubles from around \u00a350 The tourist centre of Jaipur isn't an easy place to get accommodation right, particularly not if you are with kids. Stay too close to the old city and you risk noise, dirt, dust, heat and hassle. Stay too far out and you risk traffic as well as that \"how did we end up here?\" feeling. My tip is the Barawara Kothi, an old colonial villa in the Civil Lines part of town. The decoration of the rooms is either uninspiring or mercifully free of ethnic tat, depending on how you view things \u2013 but they are clean, spacious and have nice touches such as small stained-glass windows. The beds are comfortable, the food is good and there is a delightful garden with beautiful lawns that means hot and bothered kids can run off some energy. You are close enough to the centre to get in but far enough away to get some quiet. +91 141 2222796, barwarakothi.com, doubles from \u00a347 in high season, much less in low season (April to September)", "tags": ["India holidays", "Hotels", "Travel", "Kolkata holidays", "Delhi holidays", "Kashmir holidays", "Kerala holidays", "Rajasthan holidays", "Top 10s"], "title": "10 of the best hotels in India"},{"date": "2012-02-07T21:00:05Z", "country": "india", "content": "Underlying the debate raging over British aid to India is the myth that the subcontinent's strong, market-driven growth of the past two decades has pulled hundreds of millions out of poverty. The economy is taking off; its people no longer need much aid, it is said.In reality, since 1991, during which time India has experienced the highest growth in recent history, there has been no significant reduction in poverty or hunger. Two in every five children remain malnourished. A third of adults have an abnormally low body-mass index. Half of women of childbearing age are anaemic, a proportion far higher than in sub-Saharan Africa. More than 500 million Indians have no electricity, and less than a third have toilets.The neoliberal policies unleashed by the prime minister, Manmohan Singh, when he was finance minister in the early 90s, have widened class disparities obscenely. Numbers such as 8% growth, and the fact there are 153,000 dollar millionaires, mean little to most Indians. The Ambani, Mittal and Tata families don't live on their planet.The debate in the UK was fuelled by anger at India's decision to buy French Rafale jets rather than the Eurofighter Typhoon, prompting shrill accusations of \"ingratitude\". International development secretary Andrew Mitchell even admitted that the focus of aid to India included \"seeking to sell the Typhoon\" \u2013 in violation of the stated rationale of British overseas aid, to fight poverty and promote health and education.So if India can spend billions on nuclear weapons, aircraft carriers and nuclear submarines, and on a moon mission, does it deserve aid? As was revealed this weekend, India has itself told Britain it doesn't want aid.But this confuses the nature of aid \u2013 which is about poor people, not poor countries. Many Indians question the government's ballooning military expenditure, which has more than tripled since the 1998 nuclear blasts. Instead they want substantially improved public services, including food security, drinking water, healthcare (India's public health spending proportionate to GDP is among the world's lowest), sanitation, and education at affordable prices. Great struggles are under way on these issues, which have the potential to reshape Indian politics.Besides, aid is much less wasteful than commonly thought. A small part of the international development department's budget might go towards GPS devices on buses in Bhopal, with dubious benefits. But more than 60% has gone in recent years into education and healthcare.In 2003, India kicked out all but six aid donors in a fit of pique. The Bharatiya Janata Party-led government was upset at the worldwide criticism of the 2002 Gujarat pogrom of Muslims and some EU countries' efforts to support the victims. Such refusal of aid is morally reprehensible in itself. A government which presides over persistent destitution and has failed its most vulnerable people for 60 years has no right to refuse aid which could help them.And though India has launched a modest aid initiative for the least developed countries, this shouldn't be cited as an argument to stop aid to India. There are even poorer people than Indians in several countries, but without India's wherewithal or skilled manpower. There is no reason why India shouldn't be donating food to Niger or Libya, or training technicians, policemen, diplomats and lawmakers in Afghanistan. This would only be wrong if India\u00a0did nothing for its own people, and merely exploited business opportunities through tied aid.Britain would be morally and politically wrong to terminate aid to India, home to the largest number of the world's poor. Giving aid not only acknowledges the injustice of colonial exploitation, it also arises from an obligation to redress the gross structural imbalances that continue to mark the world despite recent power shifts between states.Good aid programmes can make humane existence possible for millions who have been denied it. Rather than Mitchell's aim to \"invest more in the private sector\" and public-private partnerships \u2013 which charge user fees the poor cannot afford \u2013 Britain should target schemes with a social transformation potential. Programmes that resemble a sovereign wealth fund and seek financial returns are less beneficial than building up people's human potential.\u2022 Follow Comment is Free on Twitter @commentisfree", "tags": ["Aid", "India", "World news", "Foreign policy", "UK news", "Poverty", "Politics"], "title": "Why India needs aid | Praful Bidwai"},{"date": "2012-02-07T21:00:05Z", "country": "india", "content": "Underlying the debate raging over British aid to India is the myth that the subcontinent's strong, market-driven growth of the past two decades has pulled hundreds of millions out of poverty. The economy is taking off; its people no longer need much aid, it is said.In reality, since 1991, during which time India has experienced the highest growth in recent history, there has been no significant reduction in poverty or hunger. Two in every five children remain malnourished. A third of adults have an abnormally low body-mass index. Half of women of childbearing age are anaemic, a proportion far higher than in sub-Saharan Africa. More than 500 million Indians have no electricity, and less than a third have toilets.The neoliberal policies unleashed by the prime minister, Manmohan Singh, when he was finance minister in the early 90s, have widened class disparities obscenely. Numbers such as 8% growth, and the fact there are 153,000 dollar millionaires, mean little to most Indians. The Ambani, Mittal and Tata families don't live on their planet.The debate in the UK was fuelled by anger at India's decision to buy French Rafale jets rather than the Eurofighter Typhoon, prompting shrill accusations of \"ingratitude\". International development secretary Andrew Mitchell even admitted that the focus of aid to India included \"seeking to sell the Typhoon\" \u2013 in violation of the stated rationale of British overseas aid, to fight poverty and promote health and education.So if India can spend billions on nuclear weapons, aircraft carriers and nuclear submarines, and on a moon mission, does it deserve aid? As was revealed this weekend, India has itself told Britain it doesn't want aid.But this confuses the nature of aid \u2013 which is about poor people, not poor countries. Many Indians question the government's ballooning military expenditure, which has more than tripled since the 1998 nuclear blasts. Instead they want substantially improved public services, including food security, drinking water, healthcare (India's public health spending proportionate to GDP is among the world's lowest), sanitation, and education at affordable prices. Great struggles are under way on these issues, which have the potential to reshape Indian politics.Besides, aid is much less wasteful than commonly thought. A small part of the international development department's budget might go towards GPS devices on buses in Bhopal, with dubious benefits. But more than 60% has gone in recent years into education and healthcare.In 2003, India kicked out all but six aid donors in a fit of pique. The Bharatiya Janata Party-led government was upset at the worldwide criticism of the 2002 Gujarat pogrom of Muslims and some EU countries' efforts to support the victims. Such refusal of aid is morally reprehensible in itself. A government which presides over persistent destitution and has failed its most vulnerable people for 60 years has no right to refuse aid which could help them.And though India has launched a modest aid initiative for the least developed countries, this shouldn't be cited as an argument to stop aid to India. There are even poorer people than Indians in several countries, but without India's wherewithal or skilled manpower. There is no reason why India shouldn't be donating food to Niger or Libya, or training technicians, policemen, diplomats and lawmakers in Afghanistan. This would only be wrong if India\u00a0did nothing for its own people, and merely exploited business opportunities through tied aid.Britain would be morally and politically wrong to terminate aid to India, home to the largest number of the world's poor. Giving aid not only acknowledges the injustice of colonial exploitation, it also arises from an obligation to redress the gross structural imbalances that continue to mark the world despite recent power shifts between states.Good aid programmes can make humane existence possible for millions who have been denied it. Rather than Mitchell's aim to \"invest more in the private sector\" and public-private partnerships \u2013 which charge user fees the poor cannot afford \u2013 Britain should target schemes with a social transformation potential. Programmes that resemble a sovereign wealth fund and seek financial returns are less beneficial than building up people's human potential.\u2022 Follow Comment is Free on Twitter @commentisfree", "tags": ["Aid", "India", "World news", "Foreign policy", "UK news", "Poverty", "Politics"], "title": "Why India needs aid | Praful Bidwai"},{"date": "2012-03-14T08:01:12Z", "country": "india", "content": "Health officials in India are playing down fears that the country's removal from the list of polio-endemic countries has been threatened by a scare over a case of paralysis in the east of the country.India last month celebrated a year without a recorded new case of polio, a major step towards the eradication of the disease worldwide.But reports earlier this week of a case of paralysis in a 19-month-old child in a poverty-stricken area of West Bengal raised fears that the celebrations may have been premature.Local health workers told reporters they suspected the child had been suffering from polio.However, officials in Delhi and in Kolkata, the nearest major city to the location of the suspected case, have said this is unlikely.In 2011 in India, more than 60,000 suspected cases were investigated, only one of which was found to be polio, the officials said. It will take around three weeks to get results from tests, but it was \"extremely unlikely\" these would prove positive.With no new cases since the single case in 2011, India was taken off the list of polio-endemic countries three weeks ago by the World Health Organisation.Another two years will need to pass without a case of the disease before the country, with 1.2 billion people, can formally be declared free of the disease.India's prime minister, Manmohan Singh, hailed the achievement as giving \"hope that we can finally eradicate polio not only from India but from the face of the entire mother earth\".Campaigners have repeatedly said much still needs to be done to eradicate the disease.Last year, Sir Liam Donaldson, the UK's former chief medical officer who chairs the independent monitoring board of the Global Polio Eradication Initiative, said the success of the eradication effort, which has seen cases reduced by 99% in 20 years, was \"on a knife-edge\". In some places, particularly sub-Saharan Africa, polio has made a comeback and the disease is still endemic in Nigeria, Afghanistan and Pakistan.In India, a mass vaccination campaign involving more than 1 million volunteers reduced cases nationally by 94% between 2009 and 2010, from 741 to 42, and down to the single case last year.The success was attributed to a combination of highly motivated local workers, philanthropy, the involvement of international health bodies, and the support of local government.", "tags": ["India", "Polio", "World Health Organisation", "Society", "Health", "World news"], "title": "India plays down polio fears"},{"date": "2012-02-07T21:00:05Z", "country": "india", "content": "Underlying the debate raging over British aid to India is the myth that the subcontinent's strong, market-driven growth of the past two decades has pulled hundreds of millions out of poverty. The economy is taking off; its people no longer need much aid, it is said.In reality, since 1991, during which time India has experienced the highest growth in recent history, there has been no significant reduction in poverty or hunger. Two in every five children remain malnourished. A third of adults have an abnormally low body-mass index. Half of women of childbearing age are anaemic, a proportion far higher than in sub-Saharan Africa. More than 500 million Indians have no electricity, and less than a third have toilets.The neoliberal policies unleashed by the prime minister, Manmohan Singh, when he was finance minister in the early 90s, have widened class disparities obscenely. Numbers such as 8% growth, and the fact there are 153,000 dollar millionaires, mean little to most Indians. The Ambani, Mittal and Tata families don't live on their planet.The debate in the UK was fuelled by anger at India's decision to buy French Rafale jets rather than the Eurofighter Typhoon, prompting shrill accusations of \"ingratitude\". International development secretary Andrew Mitchell even admitted that the focus of aid to India included \"seeking to sell the Typhoon\" \u2013 in violation of the stated rationale of British overseas aid, to fight poverty and promote health and education.So if India can spend billions on nuclear weapons, aircraft carriers and nuclear submarines, and on a moon mission, does it deserve aid? As was revealed this weekend, India has itself told Britain it doesn't want aid.But this confuses the nature of aid \u2013 which is about poor people, not poor countries. Many Indians question the government's ballooning military expenditure, which has more than tripled since the 1998 nuclear blasts. Instead they want substantially improved public services, including food security, drinking water, healthcare (India's public health spending proportionate to GDP is among the world's lowest), sanitation, and education at affordable prices. Great struggles are under way on these issues, which have the potential to reshape Indian politics.Besides, aid is much less wasteful than commonly thought. A small part of the international development department's budget might go towards GPS devices on buses in Bhopal, with dubious benefits. But more than 60% has gone in recent years into education and healthcare.In 2003, India kicked out all but six aid donors in a fit of pique. The Bharatiya Janata Party-led government was upset at the worldwide criticism of the 2002 Gujarat pogrom of Muslims and some EU countries' efforts to support the victims. Such refusal of aid is morally reprehensible in itself. A government which presides over persistent destitution and has failed its most vulnerable people for 60 years has no right to refuse aid which could help them.And though India has launched a modest aid initiative for the least developed countries, this shouldn't be cited as an argument to stop aid to India. There are even poorer people than Indians in several countries, but without India's wherewithal or skilled manpower. There is no reason why India shouldn't be donating food to Niger or Libya, or training technicians, policemen, diplomats and lawmakers in Afghanistan. This would only be wrong if India\u00a0did nothing for its own people, and merely exploited business opportunities through tied aid.Britain would be morally and politically wrong to terminate aid to India, home to the largest number of the world's poor. Giving aid not only acknowledges the injustice of colonial exploitation, it also arises from an obligation to redress the gross structural imbalances that continue to mark the world despite recent power shifts between states.Good aid programmes can make humane existence possible for millions who have been denied it. Rather than Mitchell's aim to \"invest more in the private sector\" and public-private partnerships \u2013 which charge user fees the poor cannot afford \u2013 Britain should target schemes with a social transformation potential. Programmes that resemble a sovereign wealth fund and seek financial returns are less beneficial than building up people's human potential.\u2022 Follow Comment is Free on Twitter @commentisfree", "tags": ["Aid", "India", "World news", "Foreign policy", "UK news", "Poverty", "Politics"], "title": "Why India needs aid | Praful Bidwai"},{"date": "2012-03-14T08:01:12Z", "country": "india", "content": "Health officials in India are playing down fears that the country's removal from the list of polio-endemic countries has been threatened by a scare over a case of paralysis in the east of the country.India last month celebrated a year without a recorded new case of polio, a major step towards the eradication of the disease worldwide.But reports earlier this week of a case of paralysis in a 19-month-old child in a poverty-stricken area of West Bengal raised fears that the celebrations may have been premature.Local health workers told reporters they suspected the child had been suffering from polio.However, officials in Delhi and in Kolkata, the nearest major city to the location of the suspected case, have said this is unlikely.In 2011 in India, more than 60,000 suspected cases were investigated, only one of which was found to be polio, the officials said. It will take around three weeks to get results from tests, but it was \"extremely unlikely\" these would prove positive.With no new cases since the single case in 2011, India was taken off the list of polio-endemic countries three weeks ago by the World Health Organisation.Another two years will need to pass without a case of the disease before the country, with 1.2 billion people, can formally be declared free of the disease.India's prime minister, Manmohan Singh, hailed the achievement as giving \"hope that we can finally eradicate polio not only from India but from the face of the entire mother earth\".Campaigners have repeatedly said much still needs to be done to eradicate the disease.Last year, Sir Liam Donaldson, the UK's former chief medical officer who chairs the independent monitoring board of the Global Polio Eradication Initiative, said the success of the eradication effort, which has seen cases reduced by 99% in 20 years, was \"on a knife-edge\". In some places, particularly sub-Saharan Africa, polio has made a comeback and the disease is still endemic in Nigeria, Afghanistan and Pakistan.In India, a mass vaccination campaign involving more than 1 million volunteers reduced cases nationally by 94% between 2009 and 2010, from 741 to 42, and down to the single case last year.The success was attributed to a combination of highly motivated local workers, philanthropy, the involvement of international health bodies, and the support of local government.", "tags": ["India", "Polio", "World Health Organisation", "Society", "Health", "World news"], "title": "India plays down polio fears"},{"date": "2012-02-16T20:30:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Making films in India is hard not because of the heat, or the bureaucracy, or the traffic. Not even, says Liz Mermin, the director of Bollywood underworld expos\u00e9 Shot in Bombay, because its superstar subject Sanjay Dutt grew nervous about the project. \"The hardest thing for a film-maker is that you fly there, look around, take out your camera \u2013 and everything is a cliche. Poverty, chaos, cows, flowers: I was going around desperately looking for a shot I hadn't seen before.\"That difficulty \u2013 to say nothing of the challenge of depicting India in more than just western terms \u2013 led Louis Malle to name the first section of his six-hour Phantom India (1969) \"The Impossible Camera\". Yet, even though \"India\" in its teeming multiplicity may be as much a conceit as \"the west\", many directors have stepped up to this challenge. Jean Renoir's The River (1951), Roberto Rossellini's India: Matri Bhumi (1959), Fritz Lang's The Tiger of Eschnapur (1959), Pier Paolo Pasolini's Notes For A Film On India (1967), Werner Herzog's Jag Mandir (1991), and, yes, Danny Boyle's Slumdog Millionaire (2008) are just a fraction of the films that have sought to make their outsider perspectives a virtue.Now joining that list are John Madden's The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel and Michael Winterbottom's Trishna. The former, an adaptation of Deborah Moggach's 2004 novel These Foolish Things, follows a group of English pensioners (Judi Dench, Maggie Smith, Bill Nighy and Penelope Wilton) as they travel to a retirement sanctuary in Jaipur that, although more decrepit than either the brochure or its manager (Dev Patel) let on, proves to be a much-loved base for them as they go about re-envisaging and rebuilding their lives.Trishna, meanwhile, is the latest instalment in Winterbottom's ongoing dedication to bringing the novels of Thomas Hardy to the big screen. Following Jude (1996) and The Claim (2000), his version of The Mayor of Casterbridge, he has relocated Tess of the d'Urbervilles to modern-day India. In the title role, Freida Pinto plays a smalltown girl who, after her father has an accident, goes to work for a rich British businessman (Riz Ahmed) with whom she falls in love. They move, first to a turbulent Mumbai, later to palatial Rajasthan where he runs a hotel, but over time their relationship fractures and darkens.In some ways, these films are poles apart. Madden, best known as the director of Shakespeare In Love, describes The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel as \"a comedy of dislocation\" that \"evokes the form of a William Shakespeare comedy whose characters are transplanted to a different environment\". Ol Parker's screenplay is informed by politics \u2013 its starting point is the outsourcing of old age, a phenomenon promoted by Indian finance minister Jaswant Singh in 2003 when he pushed for the nation to become a \"global health destination\" \u2013 but certainly not defined by it.By contrast, Trishna is a tragedy marked by improvised acting, cityscapes full of MTV-style billboards, yuppie bars and dance studios, and, in no small part due to Marcel Zyskind's atmospheric, hand-held photography, a persistent mood of ellipsis and in-betweenness. Winterbottom is more attuned to the social and economic niceties of his characters: \"In the novel, Tess's family is one of the poorest in the village,\" he says. \"In Trishna they're the equivalent of a lower middle-class family. They aspire to benefit from the changes but find themselves in a situation that's difficult with the growing economy, urbanisation and changing values.\"Yet it's precisely this fascination with India as a place in flux that the two films have in common. Historically, outsider artists have tended to portray the nation as old, spiritual, rural, in thrall to tradition. For some, this was its appeal, for others, a curse. In Dick Fontaine's Temporary Person Passing Through (1965), a melancholic James Cameron (the veteran journalist, not the director) laments: \"There's too much of everything, too many people, too many cows, too many problems. Too much India, really.\"Now, in 2012, when Indian politicians are increasingly embracing neoliberalism and boasting of the country's Bric status, it's more likely to be depicted as a modern, urban, entrepreneur-friendly tiger economy. The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel relocates Moggach's novel from IT hub Bangalore to more picturesque Jaipur, but still shows an India that's the dynamic antithesis to \u2013 even the cure for \u2013 a Britain defined by failed internet ventures, hip-operation waiting lists and cramped bungalow homes. \"Transformation is at its heart,\" argues Parker.For Winterbottom, whose In This World and Code 46 showcased his appreciation of the cultural dynamics and faultlines that animate contemporary globalisation, the transformations in India serve to cast a cruel spotlight on Britain. \"Hardy's novels are often about modernity and speed and energy. But it's hard to get that sense of a dynamically changing world if you set one in this country. Here the problems are more to do with a lack of mobility rather than an excess of it.\"Is there a danger that this fascination with the turbo-economics of the east becomes a new kind of orientalism, one in its own way as romanticising as Eat Pray Love's ascription of superior wisdom to India? Ashim Ahluwalia, Mumbai-based director of John and Jane (2005), a brilliantly disturbing drama-documentary mashup about urban identity in modern India, believes it is: \"In order to understand with any depth what it means to be Indian today, we should stop endorsing the collective fantasy of 'India Shining' \u2013 this laughable state of mind in which many modern Indians imagine a new incredible India that looks and feels like a first-world nation.\"Anjalika Sagar, one half of the Otolith Group, whose films explore radical and utopian flashpoints since the war, says: \"India is proud of its film industry and its tourist industry. Often these are the same thing. The country's history, nature and air are under threat. Mining companies are setting its agenda. Millions of people are being displaced. How can you make a film about the country without engaging with its socio-political underclass?\"Sagar looks back on the 80s with a touch of nostalgia. Although films and TV series such as Gandhi, The Far Pavilions and The Jewel In The Crown were sometimes accused of stoking a Raj revival, a foretaste of what writer Pankaj Mishra has dubbed the \"neo-imperialist vision\" of Niall Ferguson and other evangelists for the empire, she defends them for \"at least engaging with questions of power. Independence wasn't so far in the past back then. Now, with a tiny number of exceptions, there's no attention to the history of colonialism. There's an amnesia within India.\"If that's true, it might represent an opportunity for British directors and screenwriters \u2013 though they shouldn't assume that taking it will guarantee them either audiences or appreciation. \"In the big cities especially there's often a real fuck-off attitude towards the west,\" laughs Mermin. \"There's not a trace of cultural insecurity that a particular postcolonial sensibility might wish to see.\"Ahluwalia puts it another way: \"We've always been eating brains in Indiana Jones films or stammering awkward English sentences in various other western productions, so I don't think we have high expectations.\"The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel is released on 24 February; Trishna on 9 March", "tags": ["Film", "Culture", "Michael Winterbottom", "Bollywood", "India", "World news", "The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel"], "title": "India: best exotic movie hell?"},{"date": "2012-02-07T21:00:05Z", "country": "india", "content": "Underlying the debate raging over British aid to India is the myth that the subcontinent's strong, market-driven growth of the past two decades has pulled hundreds of millions out of poverty. The economy is taking off; its people no longer need much aid, it is said.In reality, since 1991, during which time India has experienced the highest growth in recent history, there has been no significant reduction in poverty or hunger. Two in every five children remain malnourished. A third of adults have an abnormally low body-mass index. Half of women of childbearing age are anaemic, a proportion far higher than in sub-Saharan Africa. More than 500 million Indians have no electricity, and less than a third have toilets.The neoliberal policies unleashed by the prime minister, Manmohan Singh, when he was finance minister in the early 90s, have widened class disparities obscenely. Numbers such as 8% growth, and the fact there are 153,000 dollar millionaires, mean little to most Indians. The Ambani, Mittal and Tata families don't live on their planet.The debate in the UK was fuelled by anger at India's decision to buy French Rafale jets rather than the Eurofighter Typhoon, prompting shrill accusations of \"ingratitude\". International development secretary Andrew Mitchell even admitted that the focus of aid to India included \"seeking to sell the Typhoon\" \u2013 in violation of the stated rationale of British overseas aid, to fight poverty and promote health and education.So if India can spend billions on nuclear weapons, aircraft carriers and nuclear submarines, and on a moon mission, does it deserve aid? As was revealed this weekend, India has itself told Britain it doesn't want aid.But this confuses the nature of aid \u2013 which is about poor people, not poor countries. Many Indians question the government's ballooning military expenditure, which has more than tripled since the 1998 nuclear blasts. Instead they want substantially improved public services, including food security, drinking water, healthcare (India's public health spending proportionate to GDP is among the world's lowest), sanitation, and education at affordable prices. Great struggles are under way on these issues, which have the potential to reshape Indian politics.Besides, aid is much less wasteful than commonly thought. A small part of the international development department's budget might go towards GPS devices on buses in Bhopal, with dubious benefits. But more than 60% has gone in recent years into education and healthcare.In 2003, India kicked out all but six aid donors in a fit of pique. The Bharatiya Janata Party-led government was upset at the worldwide criticism of the 2002 Gujarat pogrom of Muslims and some EU countries' efforts to support the victims. Such refusal of aid is morally reprehensible in itself. A government which presides over persistent destitution and has failed its most vulnerable people for 60 years has no right to refuse aid which could help them.And though India has launched a modest aid initiative for the least developed countries, this shouldn't be cited as an argument to stop aid to India. There are even poorer people than Indians in several countries, but without India's wherewithal or skilled manpower. There is no reason why India shouldn't be donating food to Niger or Libya, or training technicians, policemen, diplomats and lawmakers in Afghanistan. This would only be wrong if India\u00a0did nothing for its own people, and merely exploited business opportunities through tied aid.Britain would be morally and politically wrong to terminate aid to India, home to the largest number of the world's poor. Giving aid not only acknowledges the injustice of colonial exploitation, it also arises from an obligation to redress the gross structural imbalances that continue to mark the world despite recent power shifts between states.Good aid programmes can make humane existence possible for millions who have been denied it. Rather than Mitchell's aim to \"invest more in the private sector\" and public-private partnerships \u2013 which charge user fees the poor cannot afford \u2013 Britain should target schemes with a social transformation potential. Programmes that resemble a sovereign wealth fund and seek financial returns are less beneficial than building up people's human potential.\u2022 Follow Comment is Free on Twitter @commentisfree", "tags": ["Aid", "India", "World news", "Foreign policy", "UK news", "Poverty", "Politics"], "title": "Why India needs aid | Praful Bidwai"},{"date": "2012-03-14T08:01:12Z", "country": "india", "content": "Health officials in India are playing down fears that the country's removal from the list of polio-endemic countries has been threatened by a scare over a case of paralysis in the east of the country.India last month celebrated a year without a recorded new case of polio, a major step towards the eradication of the disease worldwide.But reports earlier this week of a case of paralysis in a 19-month-old child in a poverty-stricken area of West Bengal raised fears that the celebrations may have been premature.Local health workers told reporters they suspected the child had been suffering from polio.However, officials in Delhi and in Kolkata, the nearest major city to the location of the suspected case, have said this is unlikely.In 2011 in India, more than 60,000 suspected cases were investigated, only one of which was found to be polio, the officials said. It will take around three weeks to get results from tests, but it was \"extremely unlikely\" these would prove positive.With no new cases since the single case in 2011, India was taken off the list of polio-endemic countries three weeks ago by the World Health Organisation.Another two years will need to pass without a case of the disease before the country, with 1.2 billion people, can formally be declared free of the disease.India's prime minister, Manmohan Singh, hailed the achievement as giving \"hope that we can finally eradicate polio not only from India but from the face of the entire mother earth\".Campaigners have repeatedly said much still needs to be done to eradicate the disease.Last year, Sir Liam Donaldson, the UK's former chief medical officer who chairs the independent monitoring board of the Global Polio Eradication Initiative, said the success of the eradication effort, which has seen cases reduced by 99% in 20 years, was \"on a knife-edge\". In some places, particularly sub-Saharan Africa, polio has made a comeback and the disease is still endemic in Nigeria, Afghanistan and Pakistan.In India, a mass vaccination campaign involving more than 1 million volunteers reduced cases nationally by 94% between 2009 and 2010, from 741 to 42, and down to the single case last year.The success was attributed to a combination of highly motivated local workers, philanthropy, the involvement of international health bodies, and the support of local government.", "tags": ["India", "Polio", "World Health Organisation", "Society", "Health", "World news"], "title": "India plays down polio fears"},{"date": "2012-02-16T20:30:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Making films in India is hard not because of the heat, or the bureaucracy, or the traffic. Not even, says Liz Mermin, the director of Bollywood underworld expos\u00e9 Shot in Bombay, because its superstar subject Sanjay Dutt grew nervous about the project. \"The hardest thing for a film-maker is that you fly there, look around, take out your camera \u2013 and everything is a cliche. Poverty, chaos, cows, flowers: I was going around desperately looking for a shot I hadn't seen before.\"That difficulty \u2013 to say nothing of the challenge of depicting India in more than just western terms \u2013 led Louis Malle to name the first section of his six-hour Phantom India (1969) \"The Impossible Camera\". Yet, even though \"India\" in its teeming multiplicity may be as much a conceit as \"the west\", many directors have stepped up to this challenge. Jean Renoir's The River (1951), Roberto Rossellini's India: Matri Bhumi (1959), Fritz Lang's The Tiger of Eschnapur (1959), Pier Paolo Pasolini's Notes For A Film On India (1967), Werner Herzog's Jag Mandir (1991), and, yes, Danny Boyle's Slumdog Millionaire (2008) are just a fraction of the films that have sought to make their outsider perspectives a virtue.Now joining that list are John Madden's The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel and Michael Winterbottom's Trishna. The former, an adaptation of Deborah Moggach's 2004 novel These Foolish Things, follows a group of English pensioners (Judi Dench, Maggie Smith, Bill Nighy and Penelope Wilton) as they travel to a retirement sanctuary in Jaipur that, although more decrepit than either the brochure or its manager (Dev Patel) let on, proves to be a much-loved base for them as they go about re-envisaging and rebuilding their lives.Trishna, meanwhile, is the latest instalment in Winterbottom's ongoing dedication to bringing the novels of Thomas Hardy to the big screen. Following Jude (1996) and The Claim (2000), his version of The Mayor of Casterbridge, he has relocated Tess of the d'Urbervilles to modern-day India. In the title role, Freida Pinto plays a smalltown girl who, after her father has an accident, goes to work for a rich British businessman (Riz Ahmed) with whom she falls in love. They move, first to a turbulent Mumbai, later to palatial Rajasthan where he runs a hotel, but over time their relationship fractures and darkens.In some ways, these films are poles apart. Madden, best known as the director of Shakespeare In Love, describes The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel as \"a comedy of dislocation\" that \"evokes the form of a William Shakespeare comedy whose characters are transplanted to a different environment\". Ol Parker's screenplay is informed by politics \u2013 its starting point is the outsourcing of old age, a phenomenon promoted by Indian finance minister Jaswant Singh in 2003 when he pushed for the nation to become a \"global health destination\" \u2013 but certainly not defined by it.By contrast, Trishna is a tragedy marked by improvised acting, cityscapes full of MTV-style billboards, yuppie bars and dance studios, and, in no small part due to Marcel Zyskind's atmospheric, hand-held photography, a persistent mood of ellipsis and in-betweenness. Winterbottom is more attuned to the social and economic niceties of his characters: \"In the novel, Tess's family is one of the poorest in the village,\" he says. \"In Trishna they're the equivalent of a lower middle-class family. They aspire to benefit from the changes but find themselves in a situation that's difficult with the growing economy, urbanisation and changing values.\"Yet it's precisely this fascination with India as a place in flux that the two films have in common. Historically, outsider artists have tended to portray the nation as old, spiritual, rural, in thrall to tradition. For some, this was its appeal, for others, a curse. In Dick Fontaine's Temporary Person Passing Through (1965), a melancholic James Cameron (the veteran journalist, not the director) laments: \"There's too much of everything, too many people, too many cows, too many problems. Too much India, really.\"Now, in 2012, when Indian politicians are increasingly embracing neoliberalism and boasting of the country's Bric status, it's more likely to be depicted as a modern, urban, entrepreneur-friendly tiger economy. The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel relocates Moggach's novel from IT hub Bangalore to more picturesque Jaipur, but still shows an India that's the dynamic antithesis to \u2013 even the cure for \u2013 a Britain defined by failed internet ventures, hip-operation waiting lists and cramped bungalow homes. \"Transformation is at its heart,\" argues Parker.For Winterbottom, whose In This World and Code 46 showcased his appreciation of the cultural dynamics and faultlines that animate contemporary globalisation, the transformations in India serve to cast a cruel spotlight on Britain. \"Hardy's novels are often about modernity and speed and energy. But it's hard to get that sense of a dynamically changing world if you set one in this country. Here the problems are more to do with a lack of mobility rather than an excess of it.\"Is there a danger that this fascination with the turbo-economics of the east becomes a new kind of orientalism, one in its own way as romanticising as Eat Pray Love's ascription of superior wisdom to India? Ashim Ahluwalia, Mumbai-based director of John and Jane (2005), a brilliantly disturbing drama-documentary mashup about urban identity in modern India, believes it is: \"In order to understand with any depth what it means to be Indian today, we should stop endorsing the collective fantasy of 'India Shining' \u2013 this laughable state of mind in which many modern Indians imagine a new incredible India that looks and feels like a first-world nation.\"Anjalika Sagar, one half of the Otolith Group, whose films explore radical and utopian flashpoints since the war, says: \"India is proud of its film industry and its tourist industry. Often these are the same thing. The country's history, nature and air are under threat. Mining companies are setting its agenda. Millions of people are being displaced. How can you make a film about the country without engaging with its socio-political underclass?\"Sagar looks back on the 80s with a touch of nostalgia. Although films and TV series such as Gandhi, The Far Pavilions and The Jewel In The Crown were sometimes accused of stoking a Raj revival, a foretaste of what writer Pankaj Mishra has dubbed the \"neo-imperialist vision\" of Niall Ferguson and other evangelists for the empire, she defends them for \"at least engaging with questions of power. Independence wasn't so far in the past back then. Now, with a tiny number of exceptions, there's no attention to the history of colonialism. There's an amnesia within India.\"If that's true, it might represent an opportunity for British directors and screenwriters \u2013 though they shouldn't assume that taking it will guarantee them either audiences or appreciation. \"In the big cities especially there's often a real fuck-off attitude towards the west,\" laughs Mermin. \"There's not a trace of cultural insecurity that a particular postcolonial sensibility might wish to see.\"Ahluwalia puts it another way: \"We've always been eating brains in Indiana Jones films or stammering awkward English sentences in various other western productions, so I don't think we have high expectations.\"The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel is released on 24 February; Trishna on 9 March", "tags": ["Film", "Culture", "Michael Winterbottom", "Bollywood", "India", "World news", "The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel"], "title": "India: best exotic movie hell?"},{"date": "2012-01-20T15:42:31Z", "country": "india", "content": "India has dropped its pursuit of Vodafone Group for a \u00a31.3bn unpaid tax bill relating to the British mobile phone operator's \u00a37bn purchase of Hutchison Essar, in a move that will reassure foreign companies at a time when the subcontinent's economic boom is slowing.The supreme court ruling put an end to the Indian tax office's long-running battle to extract capital gains tax for one of the country's biggest corporate takeovers, which was conducted in 2007 through offshore companies.Vodafone, which has invested an estimated \u00a312bn in its Indian venture, fought its case on the grounds that the tax was applied retrospectively and that capital gains are usually paid by the seller, not the buyer.\"Certainty and stability form the basic foundation of any fiscal system,\" chief justice SH Kapadia concluded. \"Investors should know where they stand. It also helps the tax administration in enforcing the provisions of the taxing laws.\" In a back-up ruling, supreme court judge KS Radhakrishnan said forcing Vodafone to pay up would have amounted to \"imposing capital punishment for capital investment\".The ruling lifted Vodafone shares 3% in morning trading, coming as a surprise to investors who had witnessed a concerted campaign to claw back tax from foreign companies trading Indian assets. The brewer SABMiller was slapped with a $39.5m (\u00a325.6m) tax bill last year after acquiring Foster's Indian operations in 2006, while the authorities are closing in on the sale of a local vaccine company to the French drugs group Sanofi.Vittorio Colao, Vodafone chief executive, said: \"We are a committed long-term investor in India and we have made clear all along that we have faith in the Indian judicial system. We welcome the supreme court's decision, which underpins our confidence in India. We will continue to grow our Indian business \u2013 including making significant investments in rural areas and in 3G network coverage \u2013 for the benefit of Indian consumers.\"The ruling removes one obstacle to Vodafone's hope of floating a stake in the Indian business on the Bombay stock exchange. Depending on the outcome of the current review of telecoms regulation, Vodafone is looking at a listing in 2013, which analysts say could raise \u00a33.4bn from a 30% stake.\"Such a move would generate cash, potentially to be used to pursue in-market consolidation, and also put some of the ownership of the company into local Indian hands, which could cause the regulators to take a slightly kinder view on the company for future matters,\" said Robin Bienenstock, a financial analyst at Bernstein Research.Vodafone was seen as a test case for the treatment of foreign investors in India, and could also set the tone for other nations including China. Kevin Phillips, a partner at Baker Tilly accountants, said: \"The case represents a huge relief, not just for Vodafone, but for a host of other large multinationals that have undertaken similar deals in India and that were anxiously awaiting the outcome. There are a number of other important territories that also tax capital gains made by foreign investors on disposals of shares in companies in their territory (notably China). Foreign investors in such territories can breathe a little easier as a result.\"Foreign investors have been pulling out of India as the country continues to struggle with inflation and a series of high profile corruption scandals \u2013 in one of the biggest a former minister has been charged with taking millions in bribes during the sale of 2G mobile phone spectrum.Using a subsidiary registered in the Netherlands, Vodafone bought 67% of Hutchison Essar from the Hong Kong conglomerate Hutchison Whampoa, via a company registered in the Cayman Islands, in 2007. The Indian government argued Vodafone should have held back from Whampoa a sum equivalent to the capital gains tax due on the deal.Vodafone is buying out its remaining partner in the business, Essar Group, having agreed to pay \u00a33.2bn for the Indian firm's 33% stake in the joint venture.India's economic growth has been revised down to 7.2% this year, from previous estimates of 9%, and lower than the 8.5% expansion in 2010-11.", "tags": ["Vodafone", "Telecommunications industry", "Business", "India", "UK news", "World news", "Politics"], "title": "Vodafone wins India tax case"},{"date": "2012-02-07T21:00:05Z", "country": "india", "content": "Underlying the debate raging over British aid to India is the myth that the subcontinent's strong, market-driven growth of the past two decades has pulled hundreds of millions out of poverty. The economy is taking off; its people no longer need much aid, it is said.In reality, since 1991, during which time India has experienced the highest growth in recent history, there has been no significant reduction in poverty or hunger. Two in every five children remain malnourished. A third of adults have an abnormally low body-mass index. Half of women of childbearing age are anaemic, a proportion far higher than in sub-Saharan Africa. More than 500 million Indians have no electricity, and less than a third have toilets.The neoliberal policies unleashed by the prime minister, Manmohan Singh, when he was finance minister in the early 90s, have widened class disparities obscenely. Numbers such as 8% growth, and the fact there are 153,000 dollar millionaires, mean little to most Indians. The Ambani, Mittal and Tata families don't live on their planet.The debate in the UK was fuelled by anger at India's decision to buy French Rafale jets rather than the Eurofighter Typhoon, prompting shrill accusations of \"ingratitude\". International development secretary Andrew Mitchell even admitted that the focus of aid to India included \"seeking to sell the Typhoon\" \u2013 in violation of the stated rationale of British overseas aid, to fight poverty and promote health and education.So if India can spend billions on nuclear weapons, aircraft carriers and nuclear submarines, and on a moon mission, does it deserve aid? As was revealed this weekend, India has itself told Britain it doesn't want aid.But this confuses the nature of aid \u2013 which is about poor people, not poor countries. Many Indians question the government's ballooning military expenditure, which has more than tripled since the 1998 nuclear blasts. Instead they want substantially improved public services, including food security, drinking water, healthcare (India's public health spending proportionate to GDP is among the world's lowest), sanitation, and education at affordable prices. Great struggles are under way on these issues, which have the potential to reshape Indian politics.Besides, aid is much less wasteful than commonly thought. A small part of the international development department's budget might go towards GPS devices on buses in Bhopal, with dubious benefits. But more than 60% has gone in recent years into education and healthcare.In 2003, India kicked out all but six aid donors in a fit of pique. The Bharatiya Janata Party-led government was upset at the worldwide criticism of the 2002 Gujarat pogrom of Muslims and some EU countries' efforts to support the victims. Such refusal of aid is morally reprehensible in itself. A government which presides over persistent destitution and has failed its most vulnerable people for 60 years has no right to refuse aid which could help them.And though India has launched a modest aid initiative for the least developed countries, this shouldn't be cited as an argument to stop aid to India. There are even poorer people than Indians in several countries, but without India's wherewithal or skilled manpower. There is no reason why India shouldn't be donating food to Niger or Libya, or training technicians, policemen, diplomats and lawmakers in Afghanistan. This would only be wrong if India\u00a0did nothing for its own people, and merely exploited business opportunities through tied aid.Britain would be morally and politically wrong to terminate aid to India, home to the largest number of the world's poor. Giving aid not only acknowledges the injustice of colonial exploitation, it also arises from an obligation to redress the gross structural imbalances that continue to mark the world despite recent power shifts between states.Good aid programmes can make humane existence possible for millions who have been denied it. Rather than Mitchell's aim to \"invest more in the private sector\" and public-private partnerships \u2013 which charge user fees the poor cannot afford \u2013 Britain should target schemes with a social transformation potential. Programmes that resemble a sovereign wealth fund and seek financial returns are less beneficial than building up people's human potential.\u2022 Follow Comment is Free on Twitter @commentisfree", "tags": ["Aid", "India", "World news", "Foreign policy", "UK news", "Poverty", "Politics"], "title": "Why India needs aid | Praful Bidwai"},{"date": "2012-03-14T08:01:12Z", "country": "india", "content": "Health officials in India are playing down fears that the country's removal from the list of polio-endemic countries has been threatened by a scare over a case of paralysis in the east of the country.India last month celebrated a year without a recorded new case of polio, a major step towards the eradication of the disease worldwide.But reports earlier this week of a case of paralysis in a 19-month-old child in a poverty-stricken area of West Bengal raised fears that the celebrations may have been premature.Local health workers told reporters they suspected the child had been suffering from polio.However, officials in Delhi and in Kolkata, the nearest major city to the location of the suspected case, have said this is unlikely.In 2011 in India, more than 60,000 suspected cases were investigated, only one of which was found to be polio, the officials said. It will take around three weeks to get results from tests, but it was \"extremely unlikely\" these would prove positive.With no new cases since the single case in 2011, India was taken off the list of polio-endemic countries three weeks ago by the World Health Organisation.Another two years will need to pass without a case of the disease before the country, with 1.2 billion people, can formally be declared free of the disease.India's prime minister, Manmohan Singh, hailed the achievement as giving \"hope that we can finally eradicate polio not only from India but from the face of the entire mother earth\".Campaigners have repeatedly said much still needs to be done to eradicate the disease.Last year, Sir Liam Donaldson, the UK's former chief medical officer who chairs the independent monitoring board of the Global Polio Eradication Initiative, said the success of the eradication effort, which has seen cases reduced by 99% in 20 years, was \"on a knife-edge\". In some places, particularly sub-Saharan Africa, polio has made a comeback and the disease is still endemic in Nigeria, Afghanistan and Pakistan.In India, a mass vaccination campaign involving more than 1 million volunteers reduced cases nationally by 94% between 2009 and 2010, from 741 to 42, and down to the single case last year.The success was attributed to a combination of highly motivated local workers, philanthropy, the involvement of international health bodies, and the support of local government.", "tags": ["India", "Polio", "World Health Organisation", "Society", "Health", "World news"], "title": "India plays down polio fears"},{"date": "2012-02-16T20:30:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Making films in India is hard not because of the heat, or the bureaucracy, or the traffic. Not even, says Liz Mermin, the director of Bollywood underworld expos\u00e9 Shot in Bombay, because its superstar subject Sanjay Dutt grew nervous about the project. \"The hardest thing for a film-maker is that you fly there, look around, take out your camera \u2013 and everything is a cliche. Poverty, chaos, cows, flowers: I was going around desperately looking for a shot I hadn't seen before.\"That difficulty \u2013 to say nothing of the challenge of depicting India in more than just western terms \u2013 led Louis Malle to name the first section of his six-hour Phantom India (1969) \"The Impossible Camera\". Yet, even though \"India\" in its teeming multiplicity may be as much a conceit as \"the west\", many directors have stepped up to this challenge. Jean Renoir's The River (1951), Roberto Rossellini's India: Matri Bhumi (1959), Fritz Lang's The Tiger of Eschnapur (1959), Pier Paolo Pasolini's Notes For A Film On India (1967), Werner Herzog's Jag Mandir (1991), and, yes, Danny Boyle's Slumdog Millionaire (2008) are just a fraction of the films that have sought to make their outsider perspectives a virtue.Now joining that list are John Madden's The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel and Michael Winterbottom's Trishna. The former, an adaptation of Deborah Moggach's 2004 novel These Foolish Things, follows a group of English pensioners (Judi Dench, Maggie Smith, Bill Nighy and Penelope Wilton) as they travel to a retirement sanctuary in Jaipur that, although more decrepit than either the brochure or its manager (Dev Patel) let on, proves to be a much-loved base for them as they go about re-envisaging and rebuilding their lives.Trishna, meanwhile, is the latest instalment in Winterbottom's ongoing dedication to bringing the novels of Thomas Hardy to the big screen. Following Jude (1996) and The Claim (2000), his version of The Mayor of Casterbridge, he has relocated Tess of the d'Urbervilles to modern-day India. In the title role, Freida Pinto plays a smalltown girl who, after her father has an accident, goes to work for a rich British businessman (Riz Ahmed) with whom she falls in love. They move, first to a turbulent Mumbai, later to palatial Rajasthan where he runs a hotel, but over time their relationship fractures and darkens.In some ways, these films are poles apart. Madden, best known as the director of Shakespeare In Love, describes The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel as \"a comedy of dislocation\" that \"evokes the form of a William Shakespeare comedy whose characters are transplanted to a different environment\". Ol Parker's screenplay is informed by politics \u2013 its starting point is the outsourcing of old age, a phenomenon promoted by Indian finance minister Jaswant Singh in 2003 when he pushed for the nation to become a \"global health destination\" \u2013 but certainly not defined by it.By contrast, Trishna is a tragedy marked by improvised acting, cityscapes full of MTV-style billboards, yuppie bars and dance studios, and, in no small part due to Marcel Zyskind's atmospheric, hand-held photography, a persistent mood of ellipsis and in-betweenness. Winterbottom is more attuned to the social and economic niceties of his characters: \"In the novel, Tess's family is one of the poorest in the village,\" he says. \"In Trishna they're the equivalent of a lower middle-class family. They aspire to benefit from the changes but find themselves in a situation that's difficult with the growing economy, urbanisation and changing values.\"Yet it's precisely this fascination with India as a place in flux that the two films have in common. Historically, outsider artists have tended to portray the nation as old, spiritual, rural, in thrall to tradition. For some, this was its appeal, for others, a curse. In Dick Fontaine's Temporary Person Passing Through (1965), a melancholic James Cameron (the veteran journalist, not the director) laments: \"There's too much of everything, too many people, too many cows, too many problems. Too much India, really.\"Now, in 2012, when Indian politicians are increasingly embracing neoliberalism and boasting of the country's Bric status, it's more likely to be depicted as a modern, urban, entrepreneur-friendly tiger economy. The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel relocates Moggach's novel from IT hub Bangalore to more picturesque Jaipur, but still shows an India that's the dynamic antithesis to \u2013 even the cure for \u2013 a Britain defined by failed internet ventures, hip-operation waiting lists and cramped bungalow homes. \"Transformation is at its heart,\" argues Parker.For Winterbottom, whose In This World and Code 46 showcased his appreciation of the cultural dynamics and faultlines that animate contemporary globalisation, the transformations in India serve to cast a cruel spotlight on Britain. \"Hardy's novels are often about modernity and speed and energy. But it's hard to get that sense of a dynamically changing world if you set one in this country. Here the problems are more to do with a lack of mobility rather than an excess of it.\"Is there a danger that this fascination with the turbo-economics of the east becomes a new kind of orientalism, one in its own way as romanticising as Eat Pray Love's ascription of superior wisdom to India? Ashim Ahluwalia, Mumbai-based director of John and Jane (2005), a brilliantly disturbing drama-documentary mashup about urban identity in modern India, believes it is: \"In order to understand with any depth what it means to be Indian today, we should stop endorsing the collective fantasy of 'India Shining' \u2013 this laughable state of mind in which many modern Indians imagine a new incredible India that looks and feels like a first-world nation.\"Anjalika Sagar, one half of the Otolith Group, whose films explore radical and utopian flashpoints since the war, says: \"India is proud of its film industry and its tourist industry. Often these are the same thing. The country's history, nature and air are under threat. Mining companies are setting its agenda. Millions of people are being displaced. How can you make a film about the country without engaging with its socio-political underclass?\"Sagar looks back on the 80s with a touch of nostalgia. Although films and TV series such as Gandhi, The Far Pavilions and The Jewel In The Crown were sometimes accused of stoking a Raj revival, a foretaste of what writer Pankaj Mishra has dubbed the \"neo-imperialist vision\" of Niall Ferguson and other evangelists for the empire, she defends them for \"at least engaging with questions of power. Independence wasn't so far in the past back then. Now, with a tiny number of exceptions, there's no attention to the history of colonialism. There's an amnesia within India.\"If that's true, it might represent an opportunity for British directors and screenwriters \u2013 though they shouldn't assume that taking it will guarantee them either audiences or appreciation. \"In the big cities especially there's often a real fuck-off attitude towards the west,\" laughs Mermin. \"There's not a trace of cultural insecurity that a particular postcolonial sensibility might wish to see.\"Ahluwalia puts it another way: \"We've always been eating brains in Indiana Jones films or stammering awkward English sentences in various other western productions, so I don't think we have high expectations.\"The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel is released on 24 February; Trishna on 9 March", "tags": ["Film", "Culture", "Michael Winterbottom", "Bollywood", "India", "World news", "The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel"], "title": "India: best exotic movie hell?"},{"date": "2012-01-20T15:42:31Z", "country": "india", "content": "India has dropped its pursuit of Vodafone Group for a \u00a31.3bn unpaid tax bill relating to the British mobile phone operator's \u00a37bn purchase of Hutchison Essar, in a move that will reassure foreign companies at a time when the subcontinent's economic boom is slowing.The supreme court ruling put an end to the Indian tax office's long-running battle to extract capital gains tax for one of the country's biggest corporate takeovers, which was conducted in 2007 through offshore companies.Vodafone, which has invested an estimated \u00a312bn in its Indian venture, fought its case on the grounds that the tax was applied retrospectively and that capital gains are usually paid by the seller, not the buyer.\"Certainty and stability form the basic foundation of any fiscal system,\" chief justice SH Kapadia concluded. \"Investors should know where they stand. It also helps the tax administration in enforcing the provisions of the taxing laws.\" In a back-up ruling, supreme court judge KS Radhakrishnan said forcing Vodafone to pay up would have amounted to \"imposing capital punishment for capital investment\".The ruling lifted Vodafone shares 3% in morning trading, coming as a surprise to investors who had witnessed a concerted campaign to claw back tax from foreign companies trading Indian assets. The brewer SABMiller was slapped with a $39.5m (\u00a325.6m) tax bill last year after acquiring Foster's Indian operations in 2006, while the authorities are closing in on the sale of a local vaccine company to the French drugs group Sanofi.Vittorio Colao, Vodafone chief executive, said: \"We are a committed long-term investor in India and we have made clear all along that we have faith in the Indian judicial system. We welcome the supreme court's decision, which underpins our confidence in India. We will continue to grow our Indian business \u2013 including making significant investments in rural areas and in 3G network coverage \u2013 for the benefit of Indian consumers.\"The ruling removes one obstacle to Vodafone's hope of floating a stake in the Indian business on the Bombay stock exchange. Depending on the outcome of the current review of telecoms regulation, Vodafone is looking at a listing in 2013, which analysts say could raise \u00a33.4bn from a 30% stake.\"Such a move would generate cash, potentially to be used to pursue in-market consolidation, and also put some of the ownership of the company into local Indian hands, which could cause the regulators to take a slightly kinder view on the company for future matters,\" said Robin Bienenstock, a financial analyst at Bernstein Research.Vodafone was seen as a test case for the treatment of foreign investors in India, and could also set the tone for other nations including China. Kevin Phillips, a partner at Baker Tilly accountants, said: \"The case represents a huge relief, not just for Vodafone, but for a host of other large multinationals that have undertaken similar deals in India and that were anxiously awaiting the outcome. There are a number of other important territories that also tax capital gains made by foreign investors on disposals of shares in companies in their territory (notably China). Foreign investors in such territories can breathe a little easier as a result.\"Foreign investors have been pulling out of India as the country continues to struggle with inflation and a series of high profile corruption scandals \u2013 in one of the biggest a former minister has been charged with taking millions in bribes during the sale of 2G mobile phone spectrum.Using a subsidiary registered in the Netherlands, Vodafone bought 67% of Hutchison Essar from the Hong Kong conglomerate Hutchison Whampoa, via a company registered in the Cayman Islands, in 2007. The Indian government argued Vodafone should have held back from Whampoa a sum equivalent to the capital gains tax due on the deal.Vodafone is buying out its remaining partner in the business, Essar Group, having agreed to pay \u00a33.2bn for the Indian firm's 33% stake in the joint venture.India's economic growth has been revised down to 7.2% this year, from previous estimates of 9%, and lower than the 8.5% expansion in 2010-11.", "tags": ["Vodafone", "Telecommunications industry", "Business", "India", "UK news", "World news", "Politics"], "title": "Vodafone wins India tax case"},{"date": "2012-03-28T14:20:37Z", "country": "india", "content": "Pressure is building on Indian officials to delay the hanging of a convicted Sikh militant scheduled for Saturday.The execution of Balwant Singh Rajoana, who was found guilty of playing a key role in the assassination of the chief minister of the north-western Punjab state in 1995, would be the first time a capital sentence has been carried out in India for eight years.This week a court in the Punjab state capital, Chandigarh, rejected an appeal by the director of the jail where Rajoana is being held.Rajoana was convicted in 2007 after an 11-year trial and has refused to plead for clemency, although co-conspirators have successfully appealed against their sentences.The current chief minister of the Punjab is due to see India's president, Pratibha Patil, on Wednesday night to ask for clemency on Rajoana's behalf.In many towns in the Punjab, one of the wealthiest parts of India, traders and businesses observed a one-day strike on Wednesday called by Sikh organisations in protest at the planned execution.Some groups have called Rajaona a \"living Sikh martyr\", and there are fears the execution could reopen old wounds.\"The death penalty is always wrong and the Indian government should immediately stop this execution,\" said Meenakshi Ganguly, South Asia director at Human Rights Watch.\"Executing Rajoana would merely continue the cycle of killing and retribution between the Sikh community and the Indian state that has long divided communities.\"The Punjab was the scene of years of bloody violence in the 1980s by militants who wanted to establish a separate Sikh state. Many Sikhs were incensed by the prime minister Indira Gandhi's handling of the 1984 occupation of the Golden Temple in Amritsar by Sikh militants.When Gandhi was killed by her Sikh bodyguards within six months of the bloody operation to recapture the holy site, thousands of Sikhs died in riots. A fierce insurgency lasted into the 1990s.Tens of thousands of security personnel have been deployed around the Punjab in recent days to maintain order.Although Indian courts still occasionally pass death sentences, few are implemented. Ajmal Kasab, the only survivor of the team of Islamist militant gunmen who killed more than 150 people in an attack in Mumbai in 2008, is currently on death row, as is the alleged mastermind of an attack on the Indian parliament in 2001.Rajoana's role in the 1995 killing of Beant Singh, the chief minister of the Punjab, was as a backup suicide bomber. Singh died with 16 others when a member of the Babbar Khalsa militant group blew himself up outside a government office.Legal experts say there is still a strong possibility that Saturday's execution will be postponed due to the ongoing appeals of others implicated in the attack and the apparent opposition of the state government.", "tags": ["India", "Sikhism", "Capital punishment", "Mumbai terror attacks", "Indira Gandhi", "World news", "Human rights", "Law"], "title": "India urged to delay Sikh militant's execution"},{"date": "2012-02-07T21:00:05Z", "country": "india", "content": "Underlying the debate raging over British aid to India is the myth that the subcontinent's strong, market-driven growth of the past two decades has pulled hundreds of millions out of poverty. The economy is taking off; its people no longer need much aid, it is said.In reality, since 1991, during which time India has experienced the highest growth in recent history, there has been no significant reduction in poverty or hunger. Two in every five children remain malnourished. A third of adults have an abnormally low body-mass index. Half of women of childbearing age are anaemic, a proportion far higher than in sub-Saharan Africa. More than 500 million Indians have no electricity, and less than a third have toilets.The neoliberal policies unleashed by the prime minister, Manmohan Singh, when he was finance minister in the early 90s, have widened class disparities obscenely. Numbers such as 8% growth, and the fact there are 153,000 dollar millionaires, mean little to most Indians. The Ambani, Mittal and Tata families don't live on their planet.The debate in the UK was fuelled by anger at India's decision to buy French Rafale jets rather than the Eurofighter Typhoon, prompting shrill accusations of \"ingratitude\". International development secretary Andrew Mitchell even admitted that the focus of aid to India included \"seeking to sell the Typhoon\" \u2013 in violation of the stated rationale of British overseas aid, to fight poverty and promote health and education.So if India can spend billions on nuclear weapons, aircraft carriers and nuclear submarines, and on a moon mission, does it deserve aid? As was revealed this weekend, India has itself told Britain it doesn't want aid.But this confuses the nature of aid \u2013 which is about poor people, not poor countries. Many Indians question the government's ballooning military expenditure, which has more than tripled since the 1998 nuclear blasts. Instead they want substantially improved public services, including food security, drinking water, healthcare (India's public health spending proportionate to GDP is among the world's lowest), sanitation, and education at affordable prices. Great struggles are under way on these issues, which have the potential to reshape Indian politics.Besides, aid is much less wasteful than commonly thought. A small part of the international development department's budget might go towards GPS devices on buses in Bhopal, with dubious benefits. But more than 60% has gone in recent years into education and healthcare.In 2003, India kicked out all but six aid donors in a fit of pique. The Bharatiya Janata Party-led government was upset at the worldwide criticism of the 2002 Gujarat pogrom of Muslims and some EU countries' efforts to support the victims. Such refusal of aid is morally reprehensible in itself. A government which presides over persistent destitution and has failed its most vulnerable people for 60 years has no right to refuse aid which could help them.And though India has launched a modest aid initiative for the least developed countries, this shouldn't be cited as an argument to stop aid to India. There are even poorer people than Indians in several countries, but without India's wherewithal or skilled manpower. There is no reason why India shouldn't be donating food to Niger or Libya, or training technicians, policemen, diplomats and lawmakers in Afghanistan. This would only be wrong if India\u00a0did nothing for its own people, and merely exploited business opportunities through tied aid.Britain would be morally and politically wrong to terminate aid to India, home to the largest number of the world's poor. Giving aid not only acknowledges the injustice of colonial exploitation, it also arises from an obligation to redress the gross structural imbalances that continue to mark the world despite recent power shifts between states.Good aid programmes can make humane existence possible for millions who have been denied it. Rather than Mitchell's aim to \"invest more in the private sector\" and public-private partnerships \u2013 which charge user fees the poor cannot afford \u2013 Britain should target schemes with a social transformation potential. Programmes that resemble a sovereign wealth fund and seek financial returns are less beneficial than building up people's human potential.\u2022 Follow Comment is Free on Twitter @commentisfree", "tags": ["Aid", "India", "World news", "Foreign policy", "UK news", "Poverty", "Politics"], "title": "Why India needs aid | Praful Bidwai"},{"date": "2012-03-14T08:01:12Z", "country": "india", "content": "Health officials in India are playing down fears that the country's removal from the list of polio-endemic countries has been threatened by a scare over a case of paralysis in the east of the country.India last month celebrated a year without a recorded new case of polio, a major step towards the eradication of the disease worldwide.But reports earlier this week of a case of paralysis in a 19-month-old child in a poverty-stricken area of West Bengal raised fears that the celebrations may have been premature.Local health workers told reporters they suspected the child had been suffering from polio.However, officials in Delhi and in Kolkata, the nearest major city to the location of the suspected case, have said this is unlikely.In 2011 in India, more than 60,000 suspected cases were investigated, only one of which was found to be polio, the officials said. It will take around three weeks to get results from tests, but it was \"extremely unlikely\" these would prove positive.With no new cases since the single case in 2011, India was taken off the list of polio-endemic countries three weeks ago by the World Health Organisation.Another two years will need to pass without a case of the disease before the country, with 1.2 billion people, can formally be declared free of the disease.India's prime minister, Manmohan Singh, hailed the achievement as giving \"hope that we can finally eradicate polio not only from India but from the face of the entire mother earth\".Campaigners have repeatedly said much still needs to be done to eradicate the disease.Last year, Sir Liam Donaldson, the UK's former chief medical officer who chairs the independent monitoring board of the Global Polio Eradication Initiative, said the success of the eradication effort, which has seen cases reduced by 99% in 20 years, was \"on a knife-edge\". In some places, particularly sub-Saharan Africa, polio has made a comeback and the disease is still endemic in Nigeria, Afghanistan and Pakistan.In India, a mass vaccination campaign involving more than 1 million volunteers reduced cases nationally by 94% between 2009 and 2010, from 741 to 42, and down to the single case last year.The success was attributed to a combination of highly motivated local workers, philanthropy, the involvement of international health bodies, and the support of local government.", "tags": ["India", "Polio", "World Health Organisation", "Society", "Health", "World news"], "title": "India plays down polio fears"},{"date": "2012-02-16T20:30:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Making films in India is hard not because of the heat, or the bureaucracy, or the traffic. Not even, says Liz Mermin, the director of Bollywood underworld expos\u00e9 Shot in Bombay, because its superstar subject Sanjay Dutt grew nervous about the project. \"The hardest thing for a film-maker is that you fly there, look around, take out your camera \u2013 and everything is a cliche. Poverty, chaos, cows, flowers: I was going around desperately looking for a shot I hadn't seen before.\"That difficulty \u2013 to say nothing of the challenge of depicting India in more than just western terms \u2013 led Louis Malle to name the first section of his six-hour Phantom India (1969) \"The Impossible Camera\". Yet, even though \"India\" in its teeming multiplicity may be as much a conceit as \"the west\", many directors have stepped up to this challenge. Jean Renoir's The River (1951), Roberto Rossellini's India: Matri Bhumi (1959), Fritz Lang's The Tiger of Eschnapur (1959), Pier Paolo Pasolini's Notes For A Film On India (1967), Werner Herzog's Jag Mandir (1991), and, yes, Danny Boyle's Slumdog Millionaire (2008) are just a fraction of the films that have sought to make their outsider perspectives a virtue.Now joining that list are John Madden's The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel and Michael Winterbottom's Trishna. The former, an adaptation of Deborah Moggach's 2004 novel These Foolish Things, follows a group of English pensioners (Judi Dench, Maggie Smith, Bill Nighy and Penelope Wilton) as they travel to a retirement sanctuary in Jaipur that, although more decrepit than either the brochure or its manager (Dev Patel) let on, proves to be a much-loved base for them as they go about re-envisaging and rebuilding their lives.Trishna, meanwhile, is the latest instalment in Winterbottom's ongoing dedication to bringing the novels of Thomas Hardy to the big screen. Following Jude (1996) and The Claim (2000), his version of The Mayor of Casterbridge, he has relocated Tess of the d'Urbervilles to modern-day India. In the title role, Freida Pinto plays a smalltown girl who, after her father has an accident, goes to work for a rich British businessman (Riz Ahmed) with whom she falls in love. They move, first to a turbulent Mumbai, later to palatial Rajasthan where he runs a hotel, but over time their relationship fractures and darkens.In some ways, these films are poles apart. Madden, best known as the director of Shakespeare In Love, describes The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel as \"a comedy of dislocation\" that \"evokes the form of a William Shakespeare comedy whose characters are transplanted to a different environment\". Ol Parker's screenplay is informed by politics \u2013 its starting point is the outsourcing of old age, a phenomenon promoted by Indian finance minister Jaswant Singh in 2003 when he pushed for the nation to become a \"global health destination\" \u2013 but certainly not defined by it.By contrast, Trishna is a tragedy marked by improvised acting, cityscapes full of MTV-style billboards, yuppie bars and dance studios, and, in no small part due to Marcel Zyskind's atmospheric, hand-held photography, a persistent mood of ellipsis and in-betweenness. Winterbottom is more attuned to the social and economic niceties of his characters: \"In the novel, Tess's family is one of the poorest in the village,\" he says. \"In Trishna they're the equivalent of a lower middle-class family. They aspire to benefit from the changes but find themselves in a situation that's difficult with the growing economy, urbanisation and changing values.\"Yet it's precisely this fascination with India as a place in flux that the two films have in common. Historically, outsider artists have tended to portray the nation as old, spiritual, rural, in thrall to tradition. For some, this was its appeal, for others, a curse. In Dick Fontaine's Temporary Person Passing Through (1965), a melancholic James Cameron (the veteran journalist, not the director) laments: \"There's too much of everything, too many people, too many cows, too many problems. Too much India, really.\"Now, in 2012, when Indian politicians are increasingly embracing neoliberalism and boasting of the country's Bric status, it's more likely to be depicted as a modern, urban, entrepreneur-friendly tiger economy. The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel relocates Moggach's novel from IT hub Bangalore to more picturesque Jaipur, but still shows an India that's the dynamic antithesis to \u2013 even the cure for \u2013 a Britain defined by failed internet ventures, hip-operation waiting lists and cramped bungalow homes. \"Transformation is at its heart,\" argues Parker.For Winterbottom, whose In This World and Code 46 showcased his appreciation of the cultural dynamics and faultlines that animate contemporary globalisation, the transformations in India serve to cast a cruel spotlight on Britain. \"Hardy's novels are often about modernity and speed and energy. But it's hard to get that sense of a dynamically changing world if you set one in this country. Here the problems are more to do with a lack of mobility rather than an excess of it.\"Is there a danger that this fascination with the turbo-economics of the east becomes a new kind of orientalism, one in its own way as romanticising as Eat Pray Love's ascription of superior wisdom to India? Ashim Ahluwalia, Mumbai-based director of John and Jane (2005), a brilliantly disturbing drama-documentary mashup about urban identity in modern India, believes it is: \"In order to understand with any depth what it means to be Indian today, we should stop endorsing the collective fantasy of 'India Shining' \u2013 this laughable state of mind in which many modern Indians imagine a new incredible India that looks and feels like a first-world nation.\"Anjalika Sagar, one half of the Otolith Group, whose films explore radical and utopian flashpoints since the war, says: \"India is proud of its film industry and its tourist industry. Often these are the same thing. The country's history, nature and air are under threat. Mining companies are setting its agenda. Millions of people are being displaced. How can you make a film about the country without engaging with its socio-political underclass?\"Sagar looks back on the 80s with a touch of nostalgia. Although films and TV series such as Gandhi, The Far Pavilions and The Jewel In The Crown were sometimes accused of stoking a Raj revival, a foretaste of what writer Pankaj Mishra has dubbed the \"neo-imperialist vision\" of Niall Ferguson and other evangelists for the empire, she defends them for \"at least engaging with questions of power. Independence wasn't so far in the past back then. Now, with a tiny number of exceptions, there's no attention to the history of colonialism. There's an amnesia within India.\"If that's true, it might represent an opportunity for British directors and screenwriters \u2013 though they shouldn't assume that taking it will guarantee them either audiences or appreciation. \"In the big cities especially there's often a real fuck-off attitude towards the west,\" laughs Mermin. \"There's not a trace of cultural insecurity that a particular postcolonial sensibility might wish to see.\"Ahluwalia puts it another way: \"We've always been eating brains in Indiana Jones films or stammering awkward English sentences in various other western productions, so I don't think we have high expectations.\"The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel is released on 24 February; Trishna on 9 March", "tags": ["Film", "Culture", "Michael Winterbottom", "Bollywood", "India", "World news", "The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel"], "title": "India: best exotic movie hell?"},{"date": "2012-01-20T15:42:31Z", "country": "india", "content": "India has dropped its pursuit of Vodafone Group for a \u00a31.3bn unpaid tax bill relating to the British mobile phone operator's \u00a37bn purchase of Hutchison Essar, in a move that will reassure foreign companies at a time when the subcontinent's economic boom is slowing.The supreme court ruling put an end to the Indian tax office's long-running battle to extract capital gains tax for one of the country's biggest corporate takeovers, which was conducted in 2007 through offshore companies.Vodafone, which has invested an estimated \u00a312bn in its Indian venture, fought its case on the grounds that the tax was applied retrospectively and that capital gains are usually paid by the seller, not the buyer.\"Certainty and stability form the basic foundation of any fiscal system,\" chief justice SH Kapadia concluded. \"Investors should know where they stand. It also helps the tax administration in enforcing the provisions of the taxing laws.\" In a back-up ruling, supreme court judge KS Radhakrishnan said forcing Vodafone to pay up would have amounted to \"imposing capital punishment for capital investment\".The ruling lifted Vodafone shares 3% in morning trading, coming as a surprise to investors who had witnessed a concerted campaign to claw back tax from foreign companies trading Indian assets. The brewer SABMiller was slapped with a $39.5m (\u00a325.6m) tax bill last year after acquiring Foster's Indian operations in 2006, while the authorities are closing in on the sale of a local vaccine company to the French drugs group Sanofi.Vittorio Colao, Vodafone chief executive, said: \"We are a committed long-term investor in India and we have made clear all along that we have faith in the Indian judicial system. We welcome the supreme court's decision, which underpins our confidence in India. We will continue to grow our Indian business \u2013 including making significant investments in rural areas and in 3G network coverage \u2013 for the benefit of Indian consumers.\"The ruling removes one obstacle to Vodafone's hope of floating a stake in the Indian business on the Bombay stock exchange. Depending on the outcome of the current review of telecoms regulation, Vodafone is looking at a listing in 2013, which analysts say could raise \u00a33.4bn from a 30% stake.\"Such a move would generate cash, potentially to be used to pursue in-market consolidation, and also put some of the ownership of the company into local Indian hands, which could cause the regulators to take a slightly kinder view on the company for future matters,\" said Robin Bienenstock, a financial analyst at Bernstein Research.Vodafone was seen as a test case for the treatment of foreign investors in India, and could also set the tone for other nations including China. Kevin Phillips, a partner at Baker Tilly accountants, said: \"The case represents a huge relief, not just for Vodafone, but for a host of other large multinationals that have undertaken similar deals in India and that were anxiously awaiting the outcome. There are a number of other important territories that also tax capital gains made by foreign investors on disposals of shares in companies in their territory (notably China). Foreign investors in such territories can breathe a little easier as a result.\"Foreign investors have been pulling out of India as the country continues to struggle with inflation and a series of high profile corruption scandals \u2013 in one of the biggest a former minister has been charged with taking millions in bribes during the sale of 2G mobile phone spectrum.Using a subsidiary registered in the Netherlands, Vodafone bought 67% of Hutchison Essar from the Hong Kong conglomerate Hutchison Whampoa, via a company registered in the Cayman Islands, in 2007. The Indian government argued Vodafone should have held back from Whampoa a sum equivalent to the capital gains tax due on the deal.Vodafone is buying out its remaining partner in the business, Essar Group, having agreed to pay \u00a33.2bn for the Indian firm's 33% stake in the joint venture.India's economic growth has been revised down to 7.2% this year, from previous estimates of 9%, and lower than the 8.5% expansion in 2010-11.", "tags": ["Vodafone", "Telecommunications industry", "Business", "India", "UK news", "World news", "Politics"], "title": "Vodafone wins India tax case"},{"date": "2012-03-28T14:20:37Z", "country": "india", "content": "Pressure is building on Indian officials to delay the hanging of a convicted Sikh militant scheduled for Saturday.The execution of Balwant Singh Rajoana, who was found guilty of playing a key role in the assassination of the chief minister of the north-western Punjab state in 1995, would be the first time a capital sentence has been carried out in India for eight years.This week a court in the Punjab state capital, Chandigarh, rejected an appeal by the director of the jail where Rajoana is being held.Rajoana was convicted in 2007 after an 11-year trial and has refused to plead for clemency, although co-conspirators have successfully appealed against their sentences.The current chief minister of the Punjab is due to see India's president, Pratibha Patil, on Wednesday night to ask for clemency on Rajoana's behalf.In many towns in the Punjab, one of the wealthiest parts of India, traders and businesses observed a one-day strike on Wednesday called by Sikh organisations in protest at the planned execution.Some groups have called Rajaona a \"living Sikh martyr\", and there are fears the execution could reopen old wounds.\"The death penalty is always wrong and the Indian government should immediately stop this execution,\" said Meenakshi Ganguly, South Asia director at Human Rights Watch.\"Executing Rajoana would merely continue the cycle of killing and retribution between the Sikh community and the Indian state that has long divided communities.\"The Punjab was the scene of years of bloody violence in the 1980s by militants who wanted to establish a separate Sikh state. Many Sikhs were incensed by the prime minister Indira Gandhi's handling of the 1984 occupation of the Golden Temple in Amritsar by Sikh militants.When Gandhi was killed by her Sikh bodyguards within six months of the bloody operation to recapture the holy site, thousands of Sikhs died in riots. A fierce insurgency lasted into the 1990s.Tens of thousands of security personnel have been deployed around the Punjab in recent days to maintain order.Although Indian courts still occasionally pass death sentences, few are implemented. Ajmal Kasab, the only survivor of the team of Islamist militant gunmen who killed more than 150 people in an attack in Mumbai in 2008, is currently on death row, as is the alleged mastermind of an attack on the Indian parliament in 2001.Rajoana's role in the 1995 killing of Beant Singh, the chief minister of the Punjab, was as a backup suicide bomber. Singh died with 16 others when a member of the Babbar Khalsa militant group blew himself up outside a government office.Legal experts say there is still a strong possibility that Saturday's execution will be postponed due to the ongoing appeals of others implicated in the attack and the apparent opposition of the state government.", "tags": ["India", "Sikhism", "Capital punishment", "Mumbai terror attacks", "Indira Gandhi", "World news", "Human rights", "Law"], "title": "India urged to delay Sikh militant's execution"},{"date": "2012-03-27T12:59:01Z", "country": "india", "content": "A cool morning mist they call impani, or honey drops, hangs over the forests and paddy fields in this rural area of Karnataka in south-west India. As we walk between the rows of areca palms to the soundtrack of whoops and whistles from birds in the treetops, Vinayak points out some of the diverse spices and fruits that grow in the shade below.\"Vanilla is the most valuable spice,\" he says, holding up a pod for us to see. \"One pod provides enough to make a 100 litres of ice-cream.\"We walk on, crossing numerous log bridges that span the deep channels dug to provide drainage during the monsoon rains. We are shown clusters of peppercorns hanging from a creeper, ginger and turmeric roots, the bark of the cinnamon tree, yellow-green nutmegs the size of plums. There are other crops: coffee, cocoa and cardamom, and five different types of banana, each with its distinct culinary use.However, the most important \u2013 and the mainstay of the local economy \u2013 is the areca nut used for paan, chewed throughout Asia for its mildly stimulating effect. The nut is wrapped in betel leaves with the addition of lime and sometimes tobacco. It stains the mouth bright red and some scientists believe it may be carcinogenic. Girish assures us paan is healthy. \"It contains minerals and gives you energy.\" Consumption in India is on the rise.Bunches of areca nuts line the paths between the palms. It is harvesting season and the picker has been busy. We find him preparing to climb, his assistant at the ready. Clad in only a pair of brief shorts and a turban, he is roped at the waist and his ankles are joined with a piece of twisted coir rope that hugs the tree trunk. He shins up the tree in seconds, armed with a long hooked stick.Having stripped one tree of its fruit, the picker uses his hooked stick to pull a neighbouring palm towards him and leaps across. The local agricultural co-operative pays for the pickers to be insured. It is dangerous work. Sometimes there are encounters with poisonous tree snakes.The co-operative movement is very strong in Karnataka with every community required by law to establish one. Most families own less than a hectare. Without the local co-op, living would be even more precarious.Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a 'Letter from' one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving our readers a clear sense of a place and its people. Send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["India", "Global development"], "title": "Letter from India: hunting areca nuts"},{"date": "2012-06-15T09:23:06Z", "country": "india", "content": "It's very easy for cynicism to creep in about Rio. We set development goal after goal and nothing seems to be working out. But the interesting thing is that the heads of states and civil society are generally concerned about these things, and that's an important part of having the conference in Rio. When we look at the main issues of Rio, they are issues that we want to squarely face. That's what is giving us hope.But with issues like energy and the environment, at government level they will talk about it, but at grassroots level, poverty is the real issue. Access to education and healthcare, these continue to be the issues. You have to tackle poverty as it adds to emissions, increases population and insecurity. Poverty makes people cut down the forests, so degradation occurs faster. Women in poor families use harmful fuels to cook, which is not good for the environment or their health. Two million women and children are killed a year because of respiratory illness, especially in poorer households.Using cattle dung in a different way to produce biogas for fuel reduces the amount of methane, and this means other harmful things, such as degrading forests, are averted. My country has a large number of cattle. We can have many more biogas plants, which can be used for green energy. My organisation offers affordable micro-loans to people for renewable energy initiatives, such as biogas plants.Our government spends millions subsidising fossil fuels. It must stop all subsidies for fossil fuels and increase subsidies for clean energy. The government makes it so difficult to get subsidies for solar energy in India. Loans by banks are subsidised, but not from microfinance [organisations]. And who do the banks lend to? Rich people.What I expect from Rio is more governments taking decisions, and having the willpower to make them count.I hope something concrete will come out of Rio. We're almost at the end of the road now. It's now or never.I don't think Rio is about targets, but about commitment to act. The millennium development goals created an awareness of issues. Hopefully, Rio will reinforce them.", "tags": ["Environmental sustainability", "Global development", "Rio+20 Earth summit", "Global climate talks", "Sustainable development", "Environment"], "title": "Rio+20: A voice from Karnataka, India"},{"date": "2012-06-15T09:23:06Z", "country": "india", "content": "It's very easy for cynicism to creep in about Rio. We set development goal after goal and nothing seems to be working out. But the interesting thing is that the heads of states and civil society are generally concerned about these things, and that's an important part of having the conference in Rio. When we look at the main issues of Rio, they are issues that we want to squarely face. That's what is giving us hope.But with issues like energy and the environment, at government level they will talk about it, but at grassroots level, poverty is the real issue. Access to education and healthcare, these continue to be the issues. You have to tackle poverty as it adds to emissions, increases population and insecurity. Poverty makes people cut down the forests, so degradation occurs faster. Women in poor families use harmful fuels to cook, which is not good for the environment or their health. Two million women and children are killed a year because of respiratory illness, especially in poorer households.Using cattle dung in a different way to produce biogas for fuel reduces the amount of methane, and this means other harmful things, such as degrading forests, are averted. My country has a large number of cattle. We can have many more biogas plants, which can be used for green energy. My organisation offers affordable micro-loans to people for renewable energy initiatives, such as biogas plants.Our government spends millions subsidising fossil fuels. It must stop all subsidies for fossil fuels and increase subsidies for clean energy. The government makes it so difficult to get subsidies for solar energy in India. Loans by banks are subsidised, but not from microfinance [organisations]. And who do the banks lend to? Rich people.What I expect from Rio is more governments taking decisions, and having the willpower to make them count.I hope something concrete will come out of Rio. We're almost at the end of the road now. It's now or never.I don't think Rio is about targets, but about commitment to act. The millennium development goals created an awareness of issues. Hopefully, Rio will reinforce them.", "tags": ["Environmental sustainability", "Global development", "Rio+20 Earth summit", "Global climate talks", "Sustainable development", "Environment"], "title": "Rio+20: A voice from Karnataka, India"},{"date": "2012-05-15T14:02:27Z", "country": "india", "content": "A few weeks ago, Joss Whedon scored all the smart cultural points by taking us on an abridged world tour of horror in The Cabin in the Woods. But he seemed to trip up after putting superherodom on long-haul in Avengers Assemble \u2013 the Kolkata slum scenes (where Black Widow finds Bruce Banner on an indefinite gap year) were criticised by Indian actors for dealing in stereotypes and fixating on poverty in the country. \"There are two scenes about India, and they only show slums,\" the Bengali star Rituparna Sengupta told the Hindustan Times. \"It could have been done in better taste.\"The Brits love carping about the Big-Ben-and-double-decker-bus shorthand that used to get rolled out in Hollywood films, so India can be (sort of) flattered that it now has its own equivalent. Avengers Assemble also had scenes in Stuttgart and New York City, subject to the same laws of cheesy popcorn-precis: like the history-ventriloquising Jewish pensioner who won't bow down to Loki in Germany. That's just the way pop culture works, in moron-proof nuggets \u2013 and India is firmly on its map now.Slumdog Millionaire has set the mould for portrayals of the country and its people in the global mainstream, for good or for ill. The audience I was with during a screening of last year's comedy 30 Minutes or Less collectively gasped when Danny McBride's villain addressed an Indian-American character as \"slumdog\".But the slum-portrayal issue is something separate to that of pop culture's need for stereotypes, and it's interesting that it has arisen again. The first time, for Slumdog Millionaire, the accusations seemed more serious: slum life was the subject of the entire film, and it was partly the slum-dwellers themselves who objected \u2013 to the use of \"dog\" in the title, which didn't seem to have any plucky associations at all in Hindi.Amitabh Bachchan, the actor for whose autograph the young Jamal will go to any lengths in the film, also wrote an ambivalent blogpost that was widely picked up around the world: \"If SM projects India as Third World dirty underbelly developing nation and causes pain and disgust among nationalists and patriots, let it be known that a murky underbelly exists and thrives even in the most developed nations.\"That's too true. But films such as Slumdog Millionaire and Avengers Assemble seem to have touched an exposed nerve in India like nowhere else. Perhaps it's because pride is running high in a newly assertive country, and these are films made by outsiders; there have been Bollywood films set in shantytowns before, such as 1981's Chakra, 1988's Salaam Bombay!, and 1991's Dharavi, and they didn't attract the same controversy.It's not as if there's been a recent shortage of \"underbelly\"-set offerings from fellow developing regions either, especially Latin America: City of God, Elite Squad, Secuestro Express, Sin Nombre, Amores Perros. But there's little outcry surrounding them. Their reception seems dictated by the same fetishising of sweat-slick ghetto life that has trickled down from North America; in some cases, the films themselves glamourised the grime.That doesn't seem likely to happen in India. The reasons have to be cultural. I don't see any valuing of poverty there as a source of authenticity, or even aesthetic beauty; films like Fish Tank or Ratcatcher, excellent though they are, are definitely western in that sense. India is only just developing an indie-film circuit that might choose to wield the camera in that ethereal spirit.Resistance to depicting slums in India is, I think, to do with the deeper expectations audiences bring to the cinema. A lot of Bollywood film is still anchored in unabashedly heroic narrative that draws its power from older mythological forms that, ultimately, have little patience for life at the demotic end: last year's thriller Singham, for example, gave full licence to its police hero cudgelling the local lowlife into line. There was no apology for it, as there would be in a Hollywood film (Harry Callahan does the same things as Singham, but he's definitely dirty in the eyes of his film), because that kind of compromising social and psychological realism don't fit easily into the classically heroic template that still governs popular Indian film-making. Any arguments about poverty being the No 1 cause of crime would have the burly Mr Singham reaching for his daystick. In real life, he'd probably be one of the people who thinks slums are too unseemly a part of Indian life to spend serious time on.At least the sniping over Slumdog Millionaire and Avengers Assemble shows there's a lively conflict of opinions within India. I don't agree with those who cry poverty porn, and I believe it's important to put the more disturbing sides of the country on show. But I think it's healthy that the same critics don't buy wholesale into the ghetto-gangster bluster that's such a big part of modern urban mythology across the world, and which is really capitalism selling its own most violent urges back to those damaged the most by them. There's space between the two; in my eyes, Slumdog Millionaire found it.", "tags": ["India", "India holidays", "Film", "Bollywood", "World cinema", "Action and adventure", "Culture"], "title": "Slumdog's dissenters: poverty on film in India"},{"date": "2012-06-15T09:23:06Z", "country": "india", "content": "It's very easy for cynicism to creep in about Rio. We set development goal after goal and nothing seems to be working out. But the interesting thing is that the heads of states and civil society are generally concerned about these things, and that's an important part of having the conference in Rio. When we look at the main issues of Rio, they are issues that we want to squarely face. That's what is giving us hope.But with issues like energy and the environment, at government level they will talk about it, but at grassroots level, poverty is the real issue. Access to education and healthcare, these continue to be the issues. You have to tackle poverty as it adds to emissions, increases population and insecurity. Poverty makes people cut down the forests, so degradation occurs faster. Women in poor families use harmful fuels to cook, which is not good for the environment or their health. Two million women and children are killed a year because of respiratory illness, especially in poorer households.Using cattle dung in a different way to produce biogas for fuel reduces the amount of methane, and this means other harmful things, such as degrading forests, are averted. My country has a large number of cattle. We can have many more biogas plants, which can be used for green energy. My organisation offers affordable micro-loans to people for renewable energy initiatives, such as biogas plants.Our government spends millions subsidising fossil fuels. It must stop all subsidies for fossil fuels and increase subsidies for clean energy. The government makes it so difficult to get subsidies for solar energy in India. Loans by banks are subsidised, but not from microfinance [organisations]. And who do the banks lend to? Rich people.What I expect from Rio is more governments taking decisions, and having the willpower to make them count.I hope something concrete will come out of Rio. We're almost at the end of the road now. It's now or never.I don't think Rio is about targets, but about commitment to act. The millennium development goals created an awareness of issues. Hopefully, Rio will reinforce them.", "tags": ["Environmental sustainability", "Global development", "Rio+20 Earth summit", "Global climate talks", "Sustainable development", "Environment"], "title": "Rio+20: A voice from Karnataka, India"},{"date": "2012-05-15T14:02:27Z", "country": "india", "content": "A few weeks ago, Joss Whedon scored all the smart cultural points by taking us on an abridged world tour of horror in The Cabin in the Woods. But he seemed to trip up after putting superherodom on long-haul in Avengers Assemble \u2013 the Kolkata slum scenes (where Black Widow finds Bruce Banner on an indefinite gap year) were criticised by Indian actors for dealing in stereotypes and fixating on poverty in the country. \"There are two scenes about India, and they only show slums,\" the Bengali star Rituparna Sengupta told the Hindustan Times. \"It could have been done in better taste.\"The Brits love carping about the Big-Ben-and-double-decker-bus shorthand that used to get rolled out in Hollywood films, so India can be (sort of) flattered that it now has its own equivalent. Avengers Assemble also had scenes in Stuttgart and New York City, subject to the same laws of cheesy popcorn-precis: like the history-ventriloquising Jewish pensioner who won't bow down to Loki in Germany. That's just the way pop culture works, in moron-proof nuggets \u2013 and India is firmly on its map now.Slumdog Millionaire has set the mould for portrayals of the country and its people in the global mainstream, for good or for ill. The audience I was with during a screening of last year's comedy 30 Minutes or Less collectively gasped when Danny McBride's villain addressed an Indian-American character as \"slumdog\".But the slum-portrayal issue is something separate to that of pop culture's need for stereotypes, and it's interesting that it has arisen again. The first time, for Slumdog Millionaire, the accusations seemed more serious: slum life was the subject of the entire film, and it was partly the slum-dwellers themselves who objected \u2013 to the use of \"dog\" in the title, which didn't seem to have any plucky associations at all in Hindi.Amitabh Bachchan, the actor for whose autograph the young Jamal will go to any lengths in the film, also wrote an ambivalent blogpost that was widely picked up around the world: \"If SM projects India as Third World dirty underbelly developing nation and causes pain and disgust among nationalists and patriots, let it be known that a murky underbelly exists and thrives even in the most developed nations.\"That's too true. But films such as Slumdog Millionaire and Avengers Assemble seem to have touched an exposed nerve in India like nowhere else. Perhaps it's because pride is running high in a newly assertive country, and these are films made by outsiders; there have been Bollywood films set in shantytowns before, such as 1981's Chakra, 1988's Salaam Bombay!, and 1991's Dharavi, and they didn't attract the same controversy.It's not as if there's been a recent shortage of \"underbelly\"-set offerings from fellow developing regions either, especially Latin America: City of God, Elite Squad, Secuestro Express, Sin Nombre, Amores Perros. But there's little outcry surrounding them. Their reception seems dictated by the same fetishising of sweat-slick ghetto life that has trickled down from North America; in some cases, the films themselves glamourised the grime.That doesn't seem likely to happen in India. The reasons have to be cultural. I don't see any valuing of poverty there as a source of authenticity, or even aesthetic beauty; films like Fish Tank or Ratcatcher, excellent though they are, are definitely western in that sense. India is only just developing an indie-film circuit that might choose to wield the camera in that ethereal spirit.Resistance to depicting slums in India is, I think, to do with the deeper expectations audiences bring to the cinema. A lot of Bollywood film is still anchored in unabashedly heroic narrative that draws its power from older mythological forms that, ultimately, have little patience for life at the demotic end: last year's thriller Singham, for example, gave full licence to its police hero cudgelling the local lowlife into line. There was no apology for it, as there would be in a Hollywood film (Harry Callahan does the same things as Singham, but he's definitely dirty in the eyes of his film), because that kind of compromising social and psychological realism don't fit easily into the classically heroic template that still governs popular Indian film-making. Any arguments about poverty being the No 1 cause of crime would have the burly Mr Singham reaching for his daystick. In real life, he'd probably be one of the people who thinks slums are too unseemly a part of Indian life to spend serious time on.At least the sniping over Slumdog Millionaire and Avengers Assemble shows there's a lively conflict of opinions within India. I don't agree with those who cry poverty porn, and I believe it's important to put the more disturbing sides of the country on show. But I think it's healthy that the same critics don't buy wholesale into the ghetto-gangster bluster that's such a big part of modern urban mythology across the world, and which is really capitalism selling its own most violent urges back to those damaged the most by them. There's space between the two; in my eyes, Slumdog Millionaire found it.", "tags": ["India", "India holidays", "Film", "Bollywood", "World cinema", "Action and adventure", "Culture"], "title": "Slumdog's dissenters: poverty on film in India"},{"date": "2012-05-15T12:59:03Z", "country": "india", "content": "Ten years after it was introduced to India, genetically modified cotton is not living up to its promise. It is vulnerable to new diseases and yields are not as great as expected.The government of Andhra Pradesh announced that for almost two-thirds of land under cultivation, the 2011 harvest was down by half on the previous year. In a departure, the government of Maharashtra state, and a court in neighbouring Madhya Pradesh, have ordered the German seed company Bayer CropScience to pay more than $1.1m in compensation to more than 1,000 farmers for cotton hybrids that did not deliver the promised yields.Bayer CropScience has denied any responsibility and blamed \"inadequate crop management and adverse environmental conditions\". It is preparing an appeal.Since the introduction of GM cotton in 2002, harvests in India have doubled and the country ranks as the world's second-largest producer. But the \"white revolution\" prompts distrust. Opponents of GM crops claim the increased yields of the early 2000s were due to better irrigation and favourable weather. Over the past six years average yields per hectare have barely changed, despite a fourfold increase in the use of GM cotton.In 2011, the head of the Central Institute for Cotton Research, Keshav Raj Kranthi, issued a warning on hybrid cotton's increased vulnerability to bacteria.\"Productivity in north India is likely to decline because of the declining potential of hybrids; the emerging problem of leaf curl virus on the new susceptible Bt-hybrids; a high level of susceptibility to sucking pests (straight varieties were resistant),\" Kranthi explained in a paper published in June 2011. He also pointed out that GM varieties consume more water and nutrients, leading to soil depletion. This in turn means that fertilisers are needed to achieve optimal yields.Fertilisers, insecticides and GM seed all come at a cost. Farmers must borrow money, often from local loan-sharks or the seed and fertiliser merchants themselves. Unfavourable weather conditions or a tiny drop in the world price of cotton can sometimes spell disaster. In 2006, in the Vidarbha area, some farmers unable to repay their debts committed suicide by swallowing pesticide.GM cotton is a new technology that demands a certain know-how to yield good results. Each of the 780 varieties available on the Indian market corresponds to a particular type of soil and different fertiliser requirements. To prevent diseases or insects developing resistance to GM varieties, local seed must be planted in just the right proportions.\"Small farmers have no idea what they're buying and even less idea how to grow these new varieties. Their traditional know-how is disappearing,\" says Sridhar Radhakrishnan, of the Coalition for a GM-Free India.If the crops fail the Indian government has made no legal provision for farmers to obtain compensation. The nine states using Bt seed should pass laws so that if \"something goes wrong [...] if farmers suffer, there has to be provision where the company pays compensation\", the agriculture minister, Sharad Pawar, told parliament in March.Ten years after the introduction of GM cotton, local seed varieties have virtually disappeared. The GM-seed market, launched with a massive advertising campaign, is now worth an estimated $364m. The seed companies have promised to introduce new varieties, which offer even greater resistance, while consuming less water and fertiliser. Their opponents are calling for a moratorium on GM cotton in India.  This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["India", "GM", "Agriculture"], "title": "India loses faith in GM cotton"},{"date": "2012-06-15T09:23:06Z", "country": "india", "content": "It's very easy for cynicism to creep in about Rio. We set development goal after goal and nothing seems to be working out. But the interesting thing is that the heads of states and civil society are generally concerned about these things, and that's an important part of having the conference in Rio. When we look at the main issues of Rio, they are issues that we want to squarely face. That's what is giving us hope.But with issues like energy and the environment, at government level they will talk about it, but at grassroots level, poverty is the real issue. Access to education and healthcare, these continue to be the issues. You have to tackle poverty as it adds to emissions, increases population and insecurity. Poverty makes people cut down the forests, so degradation occurs faster. Women in poor families use harmful fuels to cook, which is not good for the environment or their health. Two million women and children are killed a year because of respiratory illness, especially in poorer households.Using cattle dung in a different way to produce biogas for fuel reduces the amount of methane, and this means other harmful things, such as degrading forests, are averted. My country has a large number of cattle. We can have many more biogas plants, which can be used for green energy. My organisation offers affordable micro-loans to people for renewable energy initiatives, such as biogas plants.Our government spends millions subsidising fossil fuels. It must stop all subsidies for fossil fuels and increase subsidies for clean energy. The government makes it so difficult to get subsidies for solar energy in India. Loans by banks are subsidised, but not from microfinance [organisations]. And who do the banks lend to? Rich people.What I expect from Rio is more governments taking decisions, and having the willpower to make them count.I hope something concrete will come out of Rio. We're almost at the end of the road now. It's now or never.I don't think Rio is about targets, but about commitment to act. The millennium development goals created an awareness of issues. Hopefully, Rio will reinforce them.", "tags": ["Environmental sustainability", "Global development", "Rio+20 Earth summit", "Global climate talks", "Sustainable development", "Environment"], "title": "Rio+20: A voice from Karnataka, India"},{"date": "2012-05-15T14:02:27Z", "country": "india", "content": "A few weeks ago, Joss Whedon scored all the smart cultural points by taking us on an abridged world tour of horror in The Cabin in the Woods. But he seemed to trip up after putting superherodom on long-haul in Avengers Assemble \u2013 the Kolkata slum scenes (where Black Widow finds Bruce Banner on an indefinite gap year) were criticised by Indian actors for dealing in stereotypes and fixating on poverty in the country. \"There are two scenes about India, and they only show slums,\" the Bengali star Rituparna Sengupta told the Hindustan Times. \"It could have been done in better taste.\"The Brits love carping about the Big-Ben-and-double-decker-bus shorthand that used to get rolled out in Hollywood films, so India can be (sort of) flattered that it now has its own equivalent. Avengers Assemble also had scenes in Stuttgart and New York City, subject to the same laws of cheesy popcorn-precis: like the history-ventriloquising Jewish pensioner who won't bow down to Loki in Germany. That's just the way pop culture works, in moron-proof nuggets \u2013 and India is firmly on its map now.Slumdog Millionaire has set the mould for portrayals of the country and its people in the global mainstream, for good or for ill. The audience I was with during a screening of last year's comedy 30 Minutes or Less collectively gasped when Danny McBride's villain addressed an Indian-American character as \"slumdog\".But the slum-portrayal issue is something separate to that of pop culture's need for stereotypes, and it's interesting that it has arisen again. The first time, for Slumdog Millionaire, the accusations seemed more serious: slum life was the subject of the entire film, and it was partly the slum-dwellers themselves who objected \u2013 to the use of \"dog\" in the title, which didn't seem to have any plucky associations at all in Hindi.Amitabh Bachchan, the actor for whose autograph the young Jamal will go to any lengths in the film, also wrote an ambivalent blogpost that was widely picked up around the world: \"If SM projects India as Third World dirty underbelly developing nation and causes pain and disgust among nationalists and patriots, let it be known that a murky underbelly exists and thrives even in the most developed nations.\"That's too true. But films such as Slumdog Millionaire and Avengers Assemble seem to have touched an exposed nerve in India like nowhere else. Perhaps it's because pride is running high in a newly assertive country, and these are films made by outsiders; there have been Bollywood films set in shantytowns before, such as 1981's Chakra, 1988's Salaam Bombay!, and 1991's Dharavi, and they didn't attract the same controversy.It's not as if there's been a recent shortage of \"underbelly\"-set offerings from fellow developing regions either, especially Latin America: City of God, Elite Squad, Secuestro Express, Sin Nombre, Amores Perros. But there's little outcry surrounding them. Their reception seems dictated by the same fetishising of sweat-slick ghetto life that has trickled down from North America; in some cases, the films themselves glamourised the grime.That doesn't seem likely to happen in India. The reasons have to be cultural. I don't see any valuing of poverty there as a source of authenticity, or even aesthetic beauty; films like Fish Tank or Ratcatcher, excellent though they are, are definitely western in that sense. India is only just developing an indie-film circuit that might choose to wield the camera in that ethereal spirit.Resistance to depicting slums in India is, I think, to do with the deeper expectations audiences bring to the cinema. A lot of Bollywood film is still anchored in unabashedly heroic narrative that draws its power from older mythological forms that, ultimately, have little patience for life at the demotic end: last year's thriller Singham, for example, gave full licence to its police hero cudgelling the local lowlife into line. There was no apology for it, as there would be in a Hollywood film (Harry Callahan does the same things as Singham, but he's definitely dirty in the eyes of his film), because that kind of compromising social and psychological realism don't fit easily into the classically heroic template that still governs popular Indian film-making. Any arguments about poverty being the No 1 cause of crime would have the burly Mr Singham reaching for his daystick. In real life, he'd probably be one of the people who thinks slums are too unseemly a part of Indian life to spend serious time on.At least the sniping over Slumdog Millionaire and Avengers Assemble shows there's a lively conflict of opinions within India. I don't agree with those who cry poverty porn, and I believe it's important to put the more disturbing sides of the country on show. But I think it's healthy that the same critics don't buy wholesale into the ghetto-gangster bluster that's such a big part of modern urban mythology across the world, and which is really capitalism selling its own most violent urges back to those damaged the most by them. There's space between the two; in my eyes, Slumdog Millionaire found it.", "tags": ["India", "India holidays", "Film", "Bollywood", "World cinema", "Action and adventure", "Culture"], "title": "Slumdog's dissenters: poverty on film in India"},{"date": "2012-05-15T12:59:03Z", "country": "india", "content": "Ten years after it was introduced to India, genetically modified cotton is not living up to its promise. It is vulnerable to new diseases and yields are not as great as expected.The government of Andhra Pradesh announced that for almost two-thirds of land under cultivation, the 2011 harvest was down by half on the previous year. In a departure, the government of Maharashtra state, and a court in neighbouring Madhya Pradesh, have ordered the German seed company Bayer CropScience to pay more than $1.1m in compensation to more than 1,000 farmers for cotton hybrids that did not deliver the promised yields.Bayer CropScience has denied any responsibility and blamed \"inadequate crop management and adverse environmental conditions\". It is preparing an appeal.Since the introduction of GM cotton in 2002, harvests in India have doubled and the country ranks as the world's second-largest producer. But the \"white revolution\" prompts distrust. Opponents of GM crops claim the increased yields of the early 2000s were due to better irrigation and favourable weather. Over the past six years average yields per hectare have barely changed, despite a fourfold increase in the use of GM cotton.In 2011, the head of the Central Institute for Cotton Research, Keshav Raj Kranthi, issued a warning on hybrid cotton's increased vulnerability to bacteria.\"Productivity in north India is likely to decline because of the declining potential of hybrids; the emerging problem of leaf curl virus on the new susceptible Bt-hybrids; a high level of susceptibility to sucking pests (straight varieties were resistant),\" Kranthi explained in a paper published in June 2011. He also pointed out that GM varieties consume more water and nutrients, leading to soil depletion. This in turn means that fertilisers are needed to achieve optimal yields.Fertilisers, insecticides and GM seed all come at a cost. Farmers must borrow money, often from local loan-sharks or the seed and fertiliser merchants themselves. Unfavourable weather conditions or a tiny drop in the world price of cotton can sometimes spell disaster. In 2006, in the Vidarbha area, some farmers unable to repay their debts committed suicide by swallowing pesticide.GM cotton is a new technology that demands a certain know-how to yield good results. Each of the 780 varieties available on the Indian market corresponds to a particular type of soil and different fertiliser requirements. To prevent diseases or insects developing resistance to GM varieties, local seed must be planted in just the right proportions.\"Small farmers have no idea what they're buying and even less idea how to grow these new varieties. Their traditional know-how is disappearing,\" says Sridhar Radhakrishnan, of the Coalition for a GM-Free India.If the crops fail the Indian government has made no legal provision for farmers to obtain compensation. The nine states using Bt seed should pass laws so that if \"something goes wrong [...] if farmers suffer, there has to be provision where the company pays compensation\", the agriculture minister, Sharad Pawar, told parliament in March.Ten years after the introduction of GM cotton, local seed varieties have virtually disappeared. The GM-seed market, launched with a massive advertising campaign, is now worth an estimated $364m. The seed companies have promised to introduce new varieties, which offer even greater resistance, while consuming less water and fertiliser. Their opponents are calling for a moratorium on GM cotton in India.  This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["India", "GM", "Agriculture"], "title": "India loses faith in GM cotton"},{"date": "2012-05-08T11:15:18Z", "country": "india", "content": "The Avengers might be carrying all before it at the global box office, but in India, its healthy reported opening of INR110m (\u00a31.3m) has been marred by high profile complaints over its portrayal of urban living conditions.Exception has been taken in regard to two brief scenes showing Bruce Banner \u2013 AKA Hulk \u2013 (played by Mark Ruffalo) working as a doctor in Kolkata in an attempt to avoid the rage triggers that transform him.Actor Rituparna Sengupta, best known for the Bengali-language films Alo and Dahan, told the Hindustan Times: \"Kolkata has a rich culture and heritage, and a film-maker should respect that. There are two scenes about India and they only show slums. It could have been done in better taste.\"Neha Dupia, an actor in Bollywood films such as Singh Is Kinng and Dasvidaniya, said: \"It is disturbing to see the murky underbelly of India in Hollywood films ... we need to make efforts to change [the west's] perception about us.\"However, the film-makers cannot be accused of \"slumdog tourism\" a la Slumdog Millionaire: according to the Hollywood Reporter, the Kolkata slums were filmed in New Mexico.Meanwhile, Disney has reported that The Avengers' box office figures for its US opening were even higher than estimated. On Sunday, the studio entered a figure of $200.3m (\u00a3124m) for its first three days on release. But better than expected figures for the Sunday's takings mean the figure is now $207.4m.Even with the lower estimate, The Avengers \u2013 renamed Avengers Assemble for the UK and Irish market \u2013 had comfortably eclipsed the previous opening weekend best, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 2's $169.2m. The Avengers has also become the first film to break the $200m mark for its opening figures.", "tags": ["Action and adventure", "Science fiction and fantasy", "Mark Ruffalo", "Film", "Culture", "India", "World news", "The Avengers"], "title": "Avengers' slum scenes trigger anger in India"},{"date": "2013-06-13T12:57:39Z", "country": "india", "content": "Nikhil Dey has a law degree from India's most prestigious university, but you wouldn't guess it from the way he lives his life. The 50-year-old activist makes his home in a mud hut in a tiny village in Rajasthan, in northern India. He earns a salary of about \u00a32 a day, India's minimum wage.The frugal lifestyle makes sense for Dey, who works for an organisation called Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan (MKSS), which roughly translates as \"the organisation for the environment of workers and peasants\".\"I've had the privilege of being part of an extraordinary story,\" says Dey, who cites India's 2005 enactment of a Right to Information Act as a major achievement for social activism in the country.The law, which has been described as a highly ambitious example of transparency legislation, requires the Indian government to respond within 30 days to any citizen's request for the publication of government information. It also obliges public authorities to \"computerise\" their official documents. The law was passed after more than a decade of campaigning from transparency activists. MKSS was one of the first groups to become involved in the fight.\"It was a local struggle that grew into a national campaign, and a national campaign that grew to become a law, and a law that has contributed in every single day and at every single moment toward sustaining a movement,\" says Dey.Dey played a prominent role in pressuring the government to adopt the act, but insists he can take little credit for its passage.\"It wasn't that the right to information was some great idea that [came from] people like me or my senior colleagues from the English-speaking, university-educated world,\" he says. \"It was ordinary people who were fighting for minimum wages and public works.\"\"Today we travel all over India, and we learn about how creatively the right to information is being used by the most ordinary people against the most powerful of forces,\" Dey says. \"The energy, the power behind it, and the support for it is really amazing.\"What does transparency mean to you? \"It's a concept like truth. To me, it actually has everything to do with power and the balances of power. The right to information actually helps completely break those constant illegitimate concentrations of power. It empowers the person using the right.\"Why is access to information important in development? \"Development is a loaded term. Development for whom? Development by whom? Who decides? Who makes the choice? Unless you have complete free information, unless you have an opportunity to make prior informed choices, unless you have full access to information, you cannot really participate in the development process \u2026 [Access to information] allows for more equitable development and access to development for all poor and marginalised people.\"What is the one piece of information you most want released?\"That's not a question that I would like to answer \u2026 I don't have a single bit of information [that I would most like to see], because it depends on where I am located. If I am in a poor person's home, concerned about getting my rations, then that information is life and death. If I am concerned about my wage, then that information is life and death. If I am in an area where a nuclear power plant is going to come up, then the information about why, who, what equipment, what the safety measures are \u2013 very, very technical questions \u2013 become my life-and-death questions.\"", "tags": ["Global development", "Transparency", "India", "World news"], "title": "Transparency in India"},{"date": "2013-09-27T20:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "We'd been driving around the reserve for two hours when I finally accepted I was probably not going to spot one of the world's most iconic and endangered mammals. Then, suddenly, the ranger's mobile rang (with a bird-call ringtone), and we were off. Up ahead, padding along with his back to us, apparently oblivious to all the excitement behind him, was a four-year-old male tiger.The engine of our camouflaged, open-sided truck was switched off and we were told to be silent. The ranger whispered that the animal would be totally aware of, and unconcerned by, our presence \u2013 as long as we weren't noisy. The tiger lingered for a while, his face in profile as cameras whirred behind me. Then he was off and away; the exhilaration among us was palpable. We were all high on tiger, with the rangers as thrilled as we were.Such levels of expertise and local knowledge were just what I'd been hoping for when I began exploring the possibilities for a first trip to India. For a complete sub-continent novice, the prospect was daunting: the heat, the noise, the sheer overwhelming colour of the place. Though safety in numbers and a chaperone weren't particularly part of my plans, I'd opted for a group tour (with local guides) because my time was limited and I wanted a planned itinerary that would take in major sights.My biggest dilemma was whether to go north or south. After deliberation I opted for the south \u2013 with its promise of a gentler, more relaxing and less taxing introduction to the wonders of India.From the minibus as we left the airport at Chennai \u2013 the \"gateway to the south\" on the east coast of Tamil Nadu \u2013 the view was all jewel-coloured silken sarees against a muddy mustard-coloured backdrop of battered low-rise buildings. It was rush hour and there was a crowded, jostling intimacy to the flow of vehicles on the dusty main road \u2013 three-wheel taxis, many motorbikes (no helmets, women riding pillion and sitting side-saddle) and pushbikes. From the cars and crammed public buses faces stared at us and we, 11 of us, stared back.We were on one of the relatively new \"premium\" trips that Exodus, the company we were travelling with, runs. They cost a bit more and the accommodation is better than on their standard tours. There was a lot of travelling and heat and humidity on this journey, and having an air-conditioned, comfortable room was a boon. The trip takes in India's three southernmost states: Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Kerala. Suresh Moni, our guide, described it as \"a perfect starter Indian trip\".Our first outing was a tour of the stunning temples, carved shrines and caves of Mamallapuram, a Unesco world heritage site a couple of hours' drive from Chennai, with the oldest existing examples of the Dravidian architecture that is particular to this part of India. For the first few days we visited many of the temples for which the region is famous and marvelled at the fabulously detailed carvings and scale of these well-preserved ancient sites.The largest temples in southern India are in Tamil Nadu: Kanchipuram, \"city of 1,000 temples\", is one of Hinduism's most sacred cities. On the way to see it we stopped to watch blacksmiths on the side of the road working metal and shaping knives and machetes. Suresh pointed out that it was the women who were doing the work, while the men did the selling.We moved around a lot on this trip \u2013 no more than two nights anywhere. One of the highlights was a long journey by train. We rose at 4.30am for a seven-hour trip from Chennai to Mysore via Bangalore, state capital of Karnataka and India's Silicon Valley (though Mysore is catching up). The railway station in Chennai at 5.45am was electrifying \u2013 porters in turbans piled our luggage high on wooden trolleys and we fought our way through the carpet of sleeping, eating, chattering crowds who covered most of the available floor space to begin a truly fantastic journey.You're never alone in India \u2013 wherever you look, at whatever time of day, in however rural a landscape, you always see people. From the window we could see crouching figures picking crops, peering, washing, waving. We passed junctions where jostling crowds on foot, on bikes, with cows, wait to cross. The views were extraordinarily rich, full of colour and life.Mysore, city of palaces, is more relaxed than Chennai, with wide airy boulevards. At the fabulous central market, full of flowers, fruits, vegetables and jewellery, I asked Suresh about the cows who seemed to wander free. They are sacred animals here, and so get away with backing into you and taking the occasional nip. There was much buying of bangles in the market, but I liked the heavily decorated cardboard boxes they came in best.It was at Bandipur Safari Lodge, in the Karnataka national park, that we had our encounter with the tiger \u2013 the beautiful beast gracing us briefly with its majestic presence deep in the bush. We also saw sambar deer, long-tailed paradise flycatcher birds, and the merest glimpse of an elephant browsing among the bushes.In the high Nilgiri hill towns of Coonoor and Ooty (famous as temperate refuges for Raj officials and tea planters) back in Tamil Nadu, the air was much cooler and, unusually, we needed a sweater in the evenings. The Gateway hotel in Coonoor was my favourite on the trip \u2013 a real old colonial-style beauty where a man brought hot-water bottles to our rooms after dinner.The scenery in the hills was stunning \u2013 high, sloping tea plantations so verdant they look almost fake. The narrow-gauge railway that runs to Ooty was a particular delight. I got an open-sided window seat, which was how I ended up being interviewed by a local TV news team, wanting to know what I made of this trip, and their country.By chance we were in India for Diwali (or Deepavali as it is called in the south), one of the most important Hindu festivals of the year and a national holiday. On the way to Kochi, on the Malabar Coast, we stopped off at Kalpathy, a Tamil Brahmin village where they celebrate Diwali traditionally, by wheeling huge temple chariots through the streets. They weigh a ton and people have been known to be squashed and killed under the huge wheels.After Kochi and an overnight stay on one of the stately houseboats that drift along the magnificent Keralan lagoons and lakes, we reached our last port of call. Varkala is on the west coast where the tropical scenery is dramatic. The locals on the beach \u2013 both men and women \u2013 were fully clothed and it was so hot and the sun so strong that this seemed only sensible.We were definitely in a \"resort\", which was a first: the shops, bars and restaurants were full of westerners, a gentle reminder that our trip back to London was almost upon us.\u2022 The trip was provided by Exodus (0845 863 9601, exodus.co.uk), whose 15-day Classic South India itinerary costs from \u00a32,199pp including flights, transfers, accommodation and some meals", "tags": ["Kerala holidays", "India holidays", "Adventure travel", "Group trips", "Travel"], "title": "A first-timer's tour of south India"},{"date": "2013-09-27T20:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "We'd been driving around the reserve for two hours when I finally accepted I was probably not going to spot one of the world's most iconic and endangered mammals. Then, suddenly, the ranger's mobile rang (with a bird-call ringtone), and we were off. Up ahead, padding along with his back to us, apparently oblivious to all the excitement behind him, was a four-year-old male tiger.The engine of our camouflaged, open-sided truck was switched off and we were told to be silent. The ranger whispered that the animal would be totally aware of, and unconcerned by, our presence \u2013 as long as we weren't noisy. The tiger lingered for a while, his face in profile as cameras whirred behind me. Then he was off and away; the exhilaration among us was palpable. We were all high on tiger, with the rangers as thrilled as we were.Such levels of expertise and local knowledge were just what I'd been hoping for when I began exploring the possibilities for a first trip to India. For a complete sub-continent novice, the prospect was daunting: the heat, the noise, the sheer overwhelming colour of the place. Though safety in numbers and a chaperone weren't particularly part of my plans, I'd opted for a group tour (with local guides) because my time was limited and I wanted a planned itinerary that would take in major sights.My biggest dilemma was whether to go north or south. After deliberation I opted for the south \u2013 with its promise of a gentler, more relaxing and less taxing introduction to the wonders of India.From the minibus as we left the airport at Chennai \u2013 the \"gateway to the south\" on the east coast of Tamil Nadu \u2013 the view was all jewel-coloured silken sarees against a muddy mustard-coloured backdrop of battered low-rise buildings. It was rush hour and there was a crowded, jostling intimacy to the flow of vehicles on the dusty main road \u2013 three-wheel taxis, many motorbikes (no helmets, women riding pillion and sitting side-saddle) and pushbikes. From the cars and crammed public buses faces stared at us and we, 11 of us, stared back.We were on one of the relatively new \"premium\" trips that Exodus, the company we were travelling with, runs. They cost a bit more and the accommodation is better than on their standard tours. There was a lot of travelling and heat and humidity on this journey, and having an air-conditioned, comfortable room was a boon. The trip takes in India's three southernmost states: Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Kerala. Suresh Moni, our guide, described it as \"a perfect starter Indian trip\".Our first outing was a tour of the stunning temples, carved shrines and caves of Mamallapuram, a Unesco world heritage site a couple of hours' drive from Chennai, with the oldest existing examples of the Dravidian architecture that is particular to this part of India. For the first few days we visited many of the temples for which the region is famous and marvelled at the fabulously detailed carvings and scale of these well-preserved ancient sites.The largest temples in southern India are in Tamil Nadu: Kanchipuram, \"city of 1,000 temples\", is one of Hinduism's most sacred cities. On the way to see it we stopped to watch blacksmiths on the side of the road working metal and shaping knives and machetes. Suresh pointed out that it was the women who were doing the work, while the men did the selling.We moved around a lot on this trip \u2013 no more than two nights anywhere. One of the highlights was a long journey by train. We rose at 4.30am for a seven-hour trip from Chennai to Mysore via Bangalore, state capital of Karnataka and India's Silicon Valley (though Mysore is catching up). The railway station in Chennai at 5.45am was electrifying \u2013 porters in turbans piled our luggage high on wooden trolleys and we fought our way through the carpet of sleeping, eating, chattering crowds who covered most of the available floor space to begin a truly fantastic journey.You're never alone in India \u2013 wherever you look, at whatever time of day, in however rural a landscape, you always see people. From the window we could see crouching figures picking crops, peering, washing, waving. We passed junctions where jostling crowds on foot, on bikes, with cows, wait to cross. The views were extraordinarily rich, full of colour and life.Mysore, city of palaces, is more relaxed than Chennai, with wide airy boulevards. At the fabulous central market, full of flowers, fruits, vegetables and jewellery, I asked Suresh about the cows who seemed to wander free. They are sacred animals here, and so get away with backing into you and taking the occasional nip. There was much buying of bangles in the market, but I liked the heavily decorated cardboard boxes they came in best.It was at Bandipur Safari Lodge, in the Karnataka national park, that we had our encounter with the tiger \u2013 the beautiful beast gracing us briefly with its majestic presence deep in the bush. We also saw sambar deer, long-tailed paradise flycatcher birds, and the merest glimpse of an elephant browsing among the bushes.In the high Nilgiri hill towns of Coonoor and Ooty (famous as temperate refuges for Raj officials and tea planters) back in Tamil Nadu, the air was much cooler and, unusually, we needed a sweater in the evenings. The Gateway hotel in Coonoor was my favourite on the trip \u2013 a real old colonial-style beauty where a man brought hot-water bottles to our rooms after dinner.The scenery in the hills was stunning \u2013 high, sloping tea plantations so verdant they look almost fake. The narrow-gauge railway that runs to Ooty was a particular delight. I got an open-sided window seat, which was how I ended up being interviewed by a local TV news team, wanting to know what I made of this trip, and their country.By chance we were in India for Diwali (or Deepavali as it is called in the south), one of the most important Hindu festivals of the year and a national holiday. On the way to Kochi, on the Malabar Coast, we stopped off at Kalpathy, a Tamil Brahmin village where they celebrate Diwali traditionally, by wheeling huge temple chariots through the streets. They weigh a ton and people have been known to be squashed and killed under the huge wheels.After Kochi and an overnight stay on one of the stately houseboats that drift along the magnificent Keralan lagoons and lakes, we reached our last port of call. Varkala is on the west coast where the tropical scenery is dramatic. The locals on the beach \u2013 both men and women \u2013 were fully clothed and it was so hot and the sun so strong that this seemed only sensible.We were definitely in a \"resort\", which was a first: the shops, bars and restaurants were full of westerners, a gentle reminder that our trip back to London was almost upon us.\u2022 The trip was provided by Exodus (0845 863 9601, exodus.co.uk), whose 15-day Classic South India itinerary costs from \u00a32,199pp including flights, transfers, accommodation and some meals", "tags": ["Kerala holidays", "India holidays", "Adventure travel", "Group trips", "Travel"], "title": "A first-timer's tour of south India"},{"date": "2013-09-27T10:23:18Z", "country": "india", "content": "Listen on SoundcloudKolkata-based songwriter Nischay Parekh is a young Indian musician to watch out for. His debut release Ocean is currently streaming in audiovisual format on the NH7 Audiolizer ahead of its release next week. Ocean was produced by Miti Adhikari, a long-termer at Maida Vale Studios, who has worked with artists including Foo Fighters, Nirvana, Blur, Coldplay, Radiohead and more. Ocean features Jiver Singh of PINKNOISE on drums and Pedro Zappa and Miti Adhikari on bass. Apart from breaking hearts with his boy-grown-up vocals and mature songwriting sensibilities, Nischay's touring the country this season playing multiple gigs and festivals with his Ocean Orchestra band.Further listening\u2022 Blent \u2013 Cafe Coffee Tale_Bummer: New music from India\u2022 Puffyshoes \u2013 Goodbye to You: New music from Japan\u2022 Tinavie \u2013 Coldest Summer: New music from Russia", "tags": ["Music", "Culture"], "title": "Nischay Parekh \u2013 Panda: New music from India"},{"date": "2013-09-27T20:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "We'd been driving around the reserve for two hours when I finally accepted I was probably not going to spot one of the world's most iconic and endangered mammals. Then, suddenly, the ranger's mobile rang (with a bird-call ringtone), and we were off. Up ahead, padding along with his back to us, apparently oblivious to all the excitement behind him, was a four-year-old male tiger.The engine of our camouflaged, open-sided truck was switched off and we were told to be silent. The ranger whispered that the animal would be totally aware of, and unconcerned by, our presence \u2013 as long as we weren't noisy. The tiger lingered for a while, his face in profile as cameras whirred behind me. Then he was off and away; the exhilaration among us was palpable. We were all high on tiger, with the rangers as thrilled as we were.Such levels of expertise and local knowledge were just what I'd been hoping for when I began exploring the possibilities for a first trip to India. For a complete sub-continent novice, the prospect was daunting: the heat, the noise, the sheer overwhelming colour of the place. Though safety in numbers and a chaperone weren't particularly part of my plans, I'd opted for a group tour (with local guides) because my time was limited and I wanted a planned itinerary that would take in major sights.My biggest dilemma was whether to go north or south. After deliberation I opted for the south \u2013 with its promise of a gentler, more relaxing and less taxing introduction to the wonders of India.From the minibus as we left the airport at Chennai \u2013 the \"gateway to the south\" on the east coast of Tamil Nadu \u2013 the view was all jewel-coloured silken sarees against a muddy mustard-coloured backdrop of battered low-rise buildings. It was rush hour and there was a crowded, jostling intimacy to the flow of vehicles on the dusty main road \u2013 three-wheel taxis, many motorbikes (no helmets, women riding pillion and sitting side-saddle) and pushbikes. From the cars and crammed public buses faces stared at us and we, 11 of us, stared back.We were on one of the relatively new \"premium\" trips that Exodus, the company we were travelling with, runs. They cost a bit more and the accommodation is better than on their standard tours. There was a lot of travelling and heat and humidity on this journey, and having an air-conditioned, comfortable room was a boon. The trip takes in India's three southernmost states: Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Kerala. Suresh Moni, our guide, described it as \"a perfect starter Indian trip\".Our first outing was a tour of the stunning temples, carved shrines and caves of Mamallapuram, a Unesco world heritage site a couple of hours' drive from Chennai, with the oldest existing examples of the Dravidian architecture that is particular to this part of India. For the first few days we visited many of the temples for which the region is famous and marvelled at the fabulously detailed carvings and scale of these well-preserved ancient sites.The largest temples in southern India are in Tamil Nadu: Kanchipuram, \"city of 1,000 temples\", is one of Hinduism's most sacred cities. On the way to see it we stopped to watch blacksmiths on the side of the road working metal and shaping knives and machetes. Suresh pointed out that it was the women who were doing the work, while the men did the selling.We moved around a lot on this trip \u2013 no more than two nights anywhere. One of the highlights was a long journey by train. We rose at 4.30am for a seven-hour trip from Chennai to Mysore via Bangalore, state capital of Karnataka and India's Silicon Valley (though Mysore is catching up). The railway station in Chennai at 5.45am was electrifying \u2013 porters in turbans piled our luggage high on wooden trolleys and we fought our way through the carpet of sleeping, eating, chattering crowds who covered most of the available floor space to begin a truly fantastic journey.You're never alone in India \u2013 wherever you look, at whatever time of day, in however rural a landscape, you always see people. From the window we could see crouching figures picking crops, peering, washing, waving. We passed junctions where jostling crowds on foot, on bikes, with cows, wait to cross. The views were extraordinarily rich, full of colour and life.Mysore, city of palaces, is more relaxed than Chennai, with wide airy boulevards. At the fabulous central market, full of flowers, fruits, vegetables and jewellery, I asked Suresh about the cows who seemed to wander free. They are sacred animals here, and so get away with backing into you and taking the occasional nip. There was much buying of bangles in the market, but I liked the heavily decorated cardboard boxes they came in best.It was at Bandipur Safari Lodge, in the Karnataka national park, that we had our encounter with the tiger \u2013 the beautiful beast gracing us briefly with its majestic presence deep in the bush. We also saw sambar deer, long-tailed paradise flycatcher birds, and the merest glimpse of an elephant browsing among the bushes.In the high Nilgiri hill towns of Coonoor and Ooty (famous as temperate refuges for Raj officials and tea planters) back in Tamil Nadu, the air was much cooler and, unusually, we needed a sweater in the evenings. The Gateway hotel in Coonoor was my favourite on the trip \u2013 a real old colonial-style beauty where a man brought hot-water bottles to our rooms after dinner.The scenery in the hills was stunning \u2013 high, sloping tea plantations so verdant they look almost fake. The narrow-gauge railway that runs to Ooty was a particular delight. I got an open-sided window seat, which was how I ended up being interviewed by a local TV news team, wanting to know what I made of this trip, and their country.By chance we were in India for Diwali (or Deepavali as it is called in the south), one of the most important Hindu festivals of the year and a national holiday. On the way to Kochi, on the Malabar Coast, we stopped off at Kalpathy, a Tamil Brahmin village where they celebrate Diwali traditionally, by wheeling huge temple chariots through the streets. They weigh a ton and people have been known to be squashed and killed under the huge wheels.After Kochi and an overnight stay on one of the stately houseboats that drift along the magnificent Keralan lagoons and lakes, we reached our last port of call. Varkala is on the west coast where the tropical scenery is dramatic. The locals on the beach \u2013 both men and women \u2013 were fully clothed and it was so hot and the sun so strong that this seemed only sensible.We were definitely in a \"resort\", which was a first: the shops, bars and restaurants were full of westerners, a gentle reminder that our trip back to London was almost upon us.\u2022 The trip was provided by Exodus (0845 863 9601, exodus.co.uk), whose 15-day Classic South India itinerary costs from \u00a32,199pp including flights, transfers, accommodation and some meals", "tags": ["Kerala holidays", "India holidays", "Adventure travel", "Group trips", "Travel"], "title": "A first-timer's tour of south India"},{"date": "2013-09-27T10:23:18Z", "country": "india", "content": "Listen on SoundcloudKolkata-based songwriter Nischay Parekh is a young Indian musician to watch out for. His debut release Ocean is currently streaming in audiovisual format on the NH7 Audiolizer ahead of its release next week. Ocean was produced by Miti Adhikari, a long-termer at Maida Vale Studios, who has worked with artists including Foo Fighters, Nirvana, Blur, Coldplay, Radiohead and more. Ocean features Jiver Singh of PINKNOISE on drums and Pedro Zappa and Miti Adhikari on bass. Apart from breaking hearts with his boy-grown-up vocals and mature songwriting sensibilities, Nischay's touring the country this season playing multiple gigs and festivals with his Ocean Orchestra band.Further listening\u2022 Blent \u2013 Cafe Coffee Tale_Bummer: New music from India\u2022 Puffyshoes \u2013 Goodbye to You: New music from Japan\u2022 Tinavie \u2013 Coldest Summer: New music from Russia", "tags": ["Music", "Culture"], "title": "Nischay Parekh \u2013 Panda: New music from India"},{"date": "2013-09-26T05:59:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "What is it?An investment fund being set up by the Indian government's National Innovation Council (which opened in September 2010) aimed at supporting small and medium sized business using technology to create social change.The National Innovation Council (NInC) says the money is to \"invest in a new generation of Indian entrepreneurs who will build \u2013 and are in the process of building \u2013 world class enterprises that focus on the problems of the poor, without compromising on economic success.\"The Fund will provide risk capital funding to enterprises that create and deliver technologies and solutions that generate social and financial returns.A spokesperson for NInC said it is hoped the fund will reach about one billion dollars (5,000 crore) but will start with 500 crore, some of which might be provided by the UK Department for International Development.Who will fund it?The Indian government looks set to commit 20% of the pot. The rest is expected to come from Indian public sector enterprises, banks and contributions from private investors, corporates and investment firms - according to NInC.What are the timescales?Originally NIC talked about the fund being up-and-running from mid-2012, but it is now expected in November. Speaking to the Guardian, Ashwin Naik, chair of India's National Association of Social Enterprises (NASE), said: \"With such a large fund anchored by government, it possibly will be delayed again, but there's no doubt it will happen - government has already earmarked funds. NInC is currently pulling together a management team.\"What ideas will be supported?The fund will support investment at different stages of the enterprise development cycle \u2013 from early stages, through later phases of scaling-up of potentially successful solutions and business models. There will be a focus on affordable healthcare, energy, education and job creation.In March, Sam Pitroda, adviser to the Indian Prime minister and chair of NInC, was quoted in the Indian Economic Times as saying that there was a pipeline of 85 ideas so far, and that the NIC expected to receive another 200.How will money be allocated?According to reports in India's Economic Times, each enterprise supported will get an investment of between Rs 20 lakh and Rs 5 crore each, according to Pitroda. Money will also go into existing investment funds to be passed on to enterprises, whereas the UK's government-supported Big Society Capital Fund all goes into existing social enterprise funds to be passed on, rather than directly to social enterprises.How long will the fund last and what are the exit options?Exit strategies are unclear, as yet, but NInC has said the fund will last nine-to-ten years and possibly extended by three years.What will returns look like?In January 2012, Livemint financial news service reported that returns would be around the 10-12% mark, but this has not been confirmed.What does the social enterprise sector say?\"There is a big gap of funding for very early stage ideas, so this is very welcome,\" said Naik from NASE, who is also co-founder of Vaatsalya - a chain of affordable hospitals.\"We have had informal interactions and meetings with the NInC team and have passed on details of about 30 relevant social enterprises. There is going to be a lot of competition. I am happy with the way the fund is set up, the challenge is how it's executed,\" he added.This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To join the Guardian Social Enterprise Network, click here.", "tags": ["Social enterprises", "Society", "Investment funds", "Money", "How to...", "Social enterprise"], "title": "Quick guide \u2013 India Inclusive Innovation Fund"},{"date": "2013-09-27T20:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "We'd been driving around the reserve for two hours when I finally accepted I was probably not going to spot one of the world's most iconic and endangered mammals. Then, suddenly, the ranger's mobile rang (with a bird-call ringtone), and we were off. Up ahead, padding along with his back to us, apparently oblivious to all the excitement behind him, was a four-year-old male tiger.The engine of our camouflaged, open-sided truck was switched off and we were told to be silent. The ranger whispered that the animal would be totally aware of, and unconcerned by, our presence \u2013 as long as we weren't noisy. The tiger lingered for a while, his face in profile as cameras whirred behind me. Then he was off and away; the exhilaration among us was palpable. We were all high on tiger, with the rangers as thrilled as we were.Such levels of expertise and local knowledge were just what I'd been hoping for when I began exploring the possibilities for a first trip to India. For a complete sub-continent novice, the prospect was daunting: the heat, the noise, the sheer overwhelming colour of the place. Though safety in numbers and a chaperone weren't particularly part of my plans, I'd opted for a group tour (with local guides) because my time was limited and I wanted a planned itinerary that would take in major sights.My biggest dilemma was whether to go north or south. After deliberation I opted for the south \u2013 with its promise of a gentler, more relaxing and less taxing introduction to the wonders of India.From the minibus as we left the airport at Chennai \u2013 the \"gateway to the south\" on the east coast of Tamil Nadu \u2013 the view was all jewel-coloured silken sarees against a muddy mustard-coloured backdrop of battered low-rise buildings. It was rush hour and there was a crowded, jostling intimacy to the flow of vehicles on the dusty main road \u2013 three-wheel taxis, many motorbikes (no helmets, women riding pillion and sitting side-saddle) and pushbikes. From the cars and crammed public buses faces stared at us and we, 11 of us, stared back.We were on one of the relatively new \"premium\" trips that Exodus, the company we were travelling with, runs. They cost a bit more and the accommodation is better than on their standard tours. There was a lot of travelling and heat and humidity on this journey, and having an air-conditioned, comfortable room was a boon. The trip takes in India's three southernmost states: Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Kerala. Suresh Moni, our guide, described it as \"a perfect starter Indian trip\".Our first outing was a tour of the stunning temples, carved shrines and caves of Mamallapuram, a Unesco world heritage site a couple of hours' drive from Chennai, with the oldest existing examples of the Dravidian architecture that is particular to this part of India. For the first few days we visited many of the temples for which the region is famous and marvelled at the fabulously detailed carvings and scale of these well-preserved ancient sites.The largest temples in southern India are in Tamil Nadu: Kanchipuram, \"city of 1,000 temples\", is one of Hinduism's most sacred cities. On the way to see it we stopped to watch blacksmiths on the side of the road working metal and shaping knives and machetes. Suresh pointed out that it was the women who were doing the work, while the men did the selling.We moved around a lot on this trip \u2013 no more than two nights anywhere. One of the highlights was a long journey by train. We rose at 4.30am for a seven-hour trip from Chennai to Mysore via Bangalore, state capital of Karnataka and India's Silicon Valley (though Mysore is catching up). The railway station in Chennai at 5.45am was electrifying \u2013 porters in turbans piled our luggage high on wooden trolleys and we fought our way through the carpet of sleeping, eating, chattering crowds who covered most of the available floor space to begin a truly fantastic journey.You're never alone in India \u2013 wherever you look, at whatever time of day, in however rural a landscape, you always see people. From the window we could see crouching figures picking crops, peering, washing, waving. We passed junctions where jostling crowds on foot, on bikes, with cows, wait to cross. The views were extraordinarily rich, full of colour and life.Mysore, city of palaces, is more relaxed than Chennai, with wide airy boulevards. At the fabulous central market, full of flowers, fruits, vegetables and jewellery, I asked Suresh about the cows who seemed to wander free. They are sacred animals here, and so get away with backing into you and taking the occasional nip. There was much buying of bangles in the market, but I liked the heavily decorated cardboard boxes they came in best.It was at Bandipur Safari Lodge, in the Karnataka national park, that we had our encounter with the tiger \u2013 the beautiful beast gracing us briefly with its majestic presence deep in the bush. We also saw sambar deer, long-tailed paradise flycatcher birds, and the merest glimpse of an elephant browsing among the bushes.In the high Nilgiri hill towns of Coonoor and Ooty (famous as temperate refuges for Raj officials and tea planters) back in Tamil Nadu, the air was much cooler and, unusually, we needed a sweater in the evenings. The Gateway hotel in Coonoor was my favourite on the trip \u2013 a real old colonial-style beauty where a man brought hot-water bottles to our rooms after dinner.The scenery in the hills was stunning \u2013 high, sloping tea plantations so verdant they look almost fake. The narrow-gauge railway that runs to Ooty was a particular delight. I got an open-sided window seat, which was how I ended up being interviewed by a local TV news team, wanting to know what I made of this trip, and their country.By chance we were in India for Diwali (or Deepavali as it is called in the south), one of the most important Hindu festivals of the year and a national holiday. On the way to Kochi, on the Malabar Coast, we stopped off at Kalpathy, a Tamil Brahmin village where they celebrate Diwali traditionally, by wheeling huge temple chariots through the streets. They weigh a ton and people have been known to be squashed and killed under the huge wheels.After Kochi and an overnight stay on one of the stately houseboats that drift along the magnificent Keralan lagoons and lakes, we reached our last port of call. Varkala is on the west coast where the tropical scenery is dramatic. The locals on the beach \u2013 both men and women \u2013 were fully clothed and it was so hot and the sun so strong that this seemed only sensible.We were definitely in a \"resort\", which was a first: the shops, bars and restaurants were full of westerners, a gentle reminder that our trip back to London was almost upon us.\u2022 The trip was provided by Exodus (0845 863 9601, exodus.co.uk), whose 15-day Classic South India itinerary costs from \u00a32,199pp including flights, transfers, accommodation and some meals", "tags": ["Kerala holidays", "India holidays", "Adventure travel", "Group trips", "Travel"], "title": "A first-timer's tour of south India"},{"date": "2013-09-27T10:23:18Z", "country": "india", "content": "Listen on SoundcloudKolkata-based songwriter Nischay Parekh is a young Indian musician to watch out for. His debut release Ocean is currently streaming in audiovisual format on the NH7 Audiolizer ahead of its release next week. Ocean was produced by Miti Adhikari, a long-termer at Maida Vale Studios, who has worked with artists including Foo Fighters, Nirvana, Blur, Coldplay, Radiohead and more. Ocean features Jiver Singh of PINKNOISE on drums and Pedro Zappa and Miti Adhikari on bass. Apart from breaking hearts with his boy-grown-up vocals and mature songwriting sensibilities, Nischay's touring the country this season playing multiple gigs and festivals with his Ocean Orchestra band.Further listening\u2022 Blent \u2013 Cafe Coffee Tale_Bummer: New music from India\u2022 Puffyshoes \u2013 Goodbye to You: New music from Japan\u2022 Tinavie \u2013 Coldest Summer: New music from Russia", "tags": ["Music", "Culture"], "title": "Nischay Parekh \u2013 Panda: New music from India"},{"date": "2013-09-26T05:59:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "What is it?An investment fund being set up by the Indian government's National Innovation Council (which opened in September 2010) aimed at supporting small and medium sized business using technology to create social change.The National Innovation Council (NInC) says the money is to \"invest in a new generation of Indian entrepreneurs who will build \u2013 and are in the process of building \u2013 world class enterprises that focus on the problems of the poor, without compromising on economic success.\"The Fund will provide risk capital funding to enterprises that create and deliver technologies and solutions that generate social and financial returns.A spokesperson for NInC said it is hoped the fund will reach about one billion dollars (5,000 crore) but will start with 500 crore, some of which might be provided by the UK Department for International Development.Who will fund it?The Indian government looks set to commit 20% of the pot. The rest is expected to come from Indian public sector enterprises, banks and contributions from private investors, corporates and investment firms - according to NInC.What are the timescales?Originally NIC talked about the fund being up-and-running from mid-2012, but it is now expected in November. Speaking to the Guardian, Ashwin Naik, chair of India's National Association of Social Enterprises (NASE), said: \"With such a large fund anchored by government, it possibly will be delayed again, but there's no doubt it will happen - government has already earmarked funds. NInC is currently pulling together a management team.\"What ideas will be supported?The fund will support investment at different stages of the enterprise development cycle \u2013 from early stages, through later phases of scaling-up of potentially successful solutions and business models. There will be a focus on affordable healthcare, energy, education and job creation.In March, Sam Pitroda, adviser to the Indian Prime minister and chair of NInC, was quoted in the Indian Economic Times as saying that there was a pipeline of 85 ideas so far, and that the NIC expected to receive another 200.How will money be allocated?According to reports in India's Economic Times, each enterprise supported will get an investment of between Rs 20 lakh and Rs 5 crore each, according to Pitroda. Money will also go into existing investment funds to be passed on to enterprises, whereas the UK's government-supported Big Society Capital Fund all goes into existing social enterprise funds to be passed on, rather than directly to social enterprises.How long will the fund last and what are the exit options?Exit strategies are unclear, as yet, but NInC has said the fund will last nine-to-ten years and possibly extended by three years.What will returns look like?In January 2012, Livemint financial news service reported that returns would be around the 10-12% mark, but this has not been confirmed.What does the social enterprise sector say?\"There is a big gap of funding for very early stage ideas, so this is very welcome,\" said Naik from NASE, who is also co-founder of Vaatsalya - a chain of affordable hospitals.\"We have had informal interactions and meetings with the NInC team and have passed on details of about 30 relevant social enterprises. There is going to be a lot of competition. I am happy with the way the fund is set up, the challenge is how it's executed,\" he added.This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To join the Guardian Social Enterprise Network, click here.", "tags": ["Social enterprises", "Society", "Investment funds", "Money", "How to...", "Social enterprise"], "title": "Quick guide \u2013 India Inclusive Innovation Fund"},{"date": "2013-09-13T16:16:23Z", "country": "india", "content": "With global waste measured in millions of tonnes, it is easy to question whether recycling your water bottle or daily paper can really have an impact. In India, a recent survey by the Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) showed that almost half of people in the 35\u201344 age bracket were unwilling to segregate their waste at all. Too much effort, a lack of space for multiple bins and a lack of trust in local authorities to handle recyclables were quoted as reasons for resistance.The sheer amount of plastic and other waste along Indian road sides would be enough to put most people off the mammoth task of urban waste management. But for the past two decades social entrepreneur and Ashoka fellow Ravi Agarwal has been working to change a system which has the potential of improving health and environment in the country where one sixth of the world's population lives.A country of 1.2 billion people, India produces more than 55m tonnes of solid waste annually. Consumption per capita is still lower than in many developed countries, but urban planners fear that the country's exceptional growth will flood the system. The latest official Census of India statistics in 2011 showed that Bangalore's district population alone rose a staggering 47% in just ten years, making it the second fastest growing city in India, after Delhi.At times, the figures do overwhelm him, Agarwal admits during a phone interview from his base in Delhi. \"When we make 5% progress and realise the city has grown 20%, I get impatient\", he said. His answer has been to build strategic partnerships with women's groups, schools and rag pickers associations.The latter group have traditionally been crucial to India's waste management. Recycling to this date is carried out largely by the informal sector, though the nature of the work has changed. \"Waste has become incredibly complex\", Agarwal explained. \"It is no longer simply sorting glass from paper and tin cans. We now have multi-layered plastics and all kinds of new materials coming into packaging. These cannot be recycled without high tech recycling facilities.\"It is not just the volume of waste, but its hazardous contents which concern Agarwal and his team. Chemicals in products, lead in paints, pesticides in food and bio-medical waste have all contributed to the toxic mix that forms a constant threat to the land, air and water. On top of that, the demands of a rising middle class and illegal dumping from foreign countries mean that electronic waste is a growing problem.A study released last month by the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (ASSOCHAM) showed that as many as 8,500 mobile phones, 5,500 TVs and 3,000 personal computers are dismantled in Delhi every day for reuse of their component parts and materials. In the capital alone, it is estimated that over 150,000 workers are employed in official and unofficial e-recycling units.Acutely aware of the danger of disappearing income opportunities for the waste pickers, Agarwal turned the changing substance of waste into sustainable employment for those at the bottom of the economic ladder. He is currently working in two cities to help illegal waste pickers become authorised collectors.Once licensed, the workers pick up computers, fridges, TVs, mobile phones and separate the non-hazardous parts like the plastic cases, before delivering the remainders to recycling facilities. \"The idea is to take the hazardous component of the waste away from them, without threatening their livelihood\", explained Agarwal.In order to tackle the problems at large, Agarwal's organisation Toxics Link has successfully pushed for policy change and law reforms, banning the most toxic substances, including mercury, and restricting the use of many others. Agarwal believes that industry and government need to step up to the plate, but that consumers will hold the real power to demand change.Through innovative ways of communication, he aims to reach the next generation of environmental leaders. Educating the youth is a key part of the strategy, said Agarwal. \"Once they are fully aware of the dangers to their own bodies and the environment, they won't accept the situation as it is.\"Danielle Batist is communications associate at Ashoka. Unilever and Ashoka Changemakers are looking for the next generation of young sustainability entrepreneurs. Do you have an innovative\u00a0solution?\u00a0Enter it todayThis content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. Become GSB member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Sustainability", "Waste and Recycling", "Recycling", "India", "Collaboration"], "title": "India: turning waste into sustainable employment opportunities"},{"date": "2013-09-27T20:00:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "We'd been driving around the reserve for two hours when I finally accepted I was probably not going to spot one of the world's most iconic and endangered mammals. Then, suddenly, the ranger's mobile rang (with a bird-call ringtone), and we were off. Up ahead, padding along with his back to us, apparently oblivious to all the excitement behind him, was a four-year-old male tiger.The engine of our camouflaged, open-sided truck was switched off and we were told to be silent. The ranger whispered that the animal would be totally aware of, and unconcerned by, our presence \u2013 as long as we weren't noisy. The tiger lingered for a while, his face in profile as cameras whirred behind me. Then he was off and away; the exhilaration among us was palpable. We were all high on tiger, with the rangers as thrilled as we were.Such levels of expertise and local knowledge were just what I'd been hoping for when I began exploring the possibilities for a first trip to India. For a complete sub-continent novice, the prospect was daunting: the heat, the noise, the sheer overwhelming colour of the place. Though safety in numbers and a chaperone weren't particularly part of my plans, I'd opted for a group tour (with local guides) because my time was limited and I wanted a planned itinerary that would take in major sights.My biggest dilemma was whether to go north or south. After deliberation I opted for the south \u2013 with its promise of a gentler, more relaxing and less taxing introduction to the wonders of India.From the minibus as we left the airport at Chennai \u2013 the \"gateway to the south\" on the east coast of Tamil Nadu \u2013 the view was all jewel-coloured silken sarees against a muddy mustard-coloured backdrop of battered low-rise buildings. It was rush hour and there was a crowded, jostling intimacy to the flow of vehicles on the dusty main road \u2013 three-wheel taxis, many motorbikes (no helmets, women riding pillion and sitting side-saddle) and pushbikes. From the cars and crammed public buses faces stared at us and we, 11 of us, stared back.We were on one of the relatively new \"premium\" trips that Exodus, the company we were travelling with, runs. They cost a bit more and the accommodation is better than on their standard tours. There was a lot of travelling and heat and humidity on this journey, and having an air-conditioned, comfortable room was a boon. The trip takes in India's three southernmost states: Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Kerala. Suresh Moni, our guide, described it as \"a perfect starter Indian trip\".Our first outing was a tour of the stunning temples, carved shrines and caves of Mamallapuram, a Unesco world heritage site a couple of hours' drive from Chennai, with the oldest existing examples of the Dravidian architecture that is particular to this part of India. For the first few days we visited many of the temples for which the region is famous and marvelled at the fabulously detailed carvings and scale of these well-preserved ancient sites.The largest temples in southern India are in Tamil Nadu: Kanchipuram, \"city of 1,000 temples\", is one of Hinduism's most sacred cities. On the way to see it we stopped to watch blacksmiths on the side of the road working metal and shaping knives and machetes. Suresh pointed out that it was the women who were doing the work, while the men did the selling.We moved around a lot on this trip \u2013 no more than two nights anywhere. One of the highlights was a long journey by train. We rose at 4.30am for a seven-hour trip from Chennai to Mysore via Bangalore, state capital of Karnataka and India's Silicon Valley (though Mysore is catching up). The railway station in Chennai at 5.45am was electrifying \u2013 porters in turbans piled our luggage high on wooden trolleys and we fought our way through the carpet of sleeping, eating, chattering crowds who covered most of the available floor space to begin a truly fantastic journey.You're never alone in India \u2013 wherever you look, at whatever time of day, in however rural a landscape, you always see people. From the window we could see crouching figures picking crops, peering, washing, waving. We passed junctions where jostling crowds on foot, on bikes, with cows, wait to cross. The views were extraordinarily rich, full of colour and life.Mysore, city of palaces, is more relaxed than Chennai, with wide airy boulevards. At the fabulous central market, full of flowers, fruits, vegetables and jewellery, I asked Suresh about the cows who seemed to wander free. They are sacred animals here, and so get away with backing into you and taking the occasional nip. There was much buying of bangles in the market, but I liked the heavily decorated cardboard boxes they came in best.It was at Bandipur Safari Lodge, in the Karnataka national park, that we had our encounter with the tiger \u2013 the beautiful beast gracing us briefly with its majestic presence deep in the bush. We also saw sambar deer, long-tailed paradise flycatcher birds, and the merest glimpse of an elephant browsing among the bushes.In the high Nilgiri hill towns of Coonoor and Ooty (famous as temperate refuges for Raj officials and tea planters) back in Tamil Nadu, the air was much cooler and, unusually, we needed a sweater in the evenings. The Gateway hotel in Coonoor was my favourite on the trip \u2013 a real old colonial-style beauty where a man brought hot-water bottles to our rooms after dinner.The scenery in the hills was stunning \u2013 high, sloping tea plantations so verdant they look almost fake. The narrow-gauge railway that runs to Ooty was a particular delight. I got an open-sided window seat, which was how I ended up being interviewed by a local TV news team, wanting to know what I made of this trip, and their country.By chance we were in India for Diwali (or Deepavali as it is called in the south), one of the most important Hindu festivals of the year and a national holiday. On the way to Kochi, on the Malabar Coast, we stopped off at Kalpathy, a Tamil Brahmin village where they celebrate Diwali traditionally, by wheeling huge temple chariots through the streets. They weigh a ton and people have been known to be squashed and killed under the huge wheels.After Kochi and an overnight stay on one of the stately houseboats that drift along the magnificent Keralan lagoons and lakes, we reached our last port of call. Varkala is on the west coast where the tropical scenery is dramatic. The locals on the beach \u2013 both men and women \u2013 were fully clothed and it was so hot and the sun so strong that this seemed only sensible.We were definitely in a \"resort\", which was a first: the shops, bars and restaurants were full of westerners, a gentle reminder that our trip back to London was almost upon us.\u2022 The trip was provided by Exodus (0845 863 9601, exodus.co.uk), whose 15-day Classic South India itinerary costs from \u00a32,199pp including flights, transfers, accommodation and some meals", "tags": ["Kerala holidays", "India holidays", "Adventure travel", "Group trips", "Travel"], "title": "A first-timer's tour of south India"},{"date": "2013-09-27T10:23:18Z", "country": "india", "content": "Listen on SoundcloudKolkata-based songwriter Nischay Parekh is a young Indian musician to watch out for. His debut release Ocean is currently streaming in audiovisual format on the NH7 Audiolizer ahead of its release next week. Ocean was produced by Miti Adhikari, a long-termer at Maida Vale Studios, who has worked with artists including Foo Fighters, Nirvana, Blur, Coldplay, Radiohead and more. Ocean features Jiver Singh of PINKNOISE on drums and Pedro Zappa and Miti Adhikari on bass. Apart from breaking hearts with his boy-grown-up vocals and mature songwriting sensibilities, Nischay's touring the country this season playing multiple gigs and festivals with his Ocean Orchestra band.Further listening\u2022 Blent \u2013 Cafe Coffee Tale_Bummer: New music from India\u2022 Puffyshoes \u2013 Goodbye to You: New music from Japan\u2022 Tinavie \u2013 Coldest Summer: New music from Russia", "tags": ["Music", "Culture"], "title": "Nischay Parekh \u2013 Panda: New music from India"},{"date": "2013-09-26T05:59:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "What is it?An investment fund being set up by the Indian government's National Innovation Council (which opened in September 2010) aimed at supporting small and medium sized business using technology to create social change.The National Innovation Council (NInC) says the money is to \"invest in a new generation of Indian entrepreneurs who will build \u2013 and are in the process of building \u2013 world class enterprises that focus on the problems of the poor, without compromising on economic success.\"The Fund will provide risk capital funding to enterprises that create and deliver technologies and solutions that generate social and financial returns.A spokesperson for NInC said it is hoped the fund will reach about one billion dollars (5,000 crore) but will start with 500 crore, some of which might be provided by the UK Department for International Development.Who will fund it?The Indian government looks set to commit 20% of the pot. The rest is expected to come from Indian public sector enterprises, banks and contributions from private investors, corporates and investment firms - according to NInC.What are the timescales?Originally NIC talked about the fund being up-and-running from mid-2012, but it is now expected in November. Speaking to the Guardian, Ashwin Naik, chair of India's National Association of Social Enterprises (NASE), said: \"With such a large fund anchored by government, it possibly will be delayed again, but there's no doubt it will happen - government has already earmarked funds. NInC is currently pulling together a management team.\"What ideas will be supported?The fund will support investment at different stages of the enterprise development cycle \u2013 from early stages, through later phases of scaling-up of potentially successful solutions and business models. There will be a focus on affordable healthcare, energy, education and job creation.In March, Sam Pitroda, adviser to the Indian Prime minister and chair of NInC, was quoted in the Indian Economic Times as saying that there was a pipeline of 85 ideas so far, and that the NIC expected to receive another 200.How will money be allocated?According to reports in India's Economic Times, each enterprise supported will get an investment of between Rs 20 lakh and Rs 5 crore each, according to Pitroda. Money will also go into existing investment funds to be passed on to enterprises, whereas the UK's government-supported Big Society Capital Fund all goes into existing social enterprise funds to be passed on, rather than directly to social enterprises.How long will the fund last and what are the exit options?Exit strategies are unclear, as yet, but NInC has said the fund will last nine-to-ten years and possibly extended by three years.What will returns look like?In January 2012, Livemint financial news service reported that returns would be around the 10-12% mark, but this has not been confirmed.What does the social enterprise sector say?\"There is a big gap of funding for very early stage ideas, so this is very welcome,\" said Naik from NASE, who is also co-founder of Vaatsalya - a chain of affordable hospitals.\"We have had informal interactions and meetings with the NInC team and have passed on details of about 30 relevant social enterprises. There is going to be a lot of competition. I am happy with the way the fund is set up, the challenge is how it's executed,\" he added.This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To join the Guardian Social Enterprise Network, click here.", "tags": ["Social enterprises", "Society", "Investment funds", "Money", "How to...", "Social enterprise"], "title": "Quick guide \u2013 India Inclusive Innovation Fund"},{"date": "2013-09-13T16:16:23Z", "country": "india", "content": "With global waste measured in millions of tonnes, it is easy to question whether recycling your water bottle or daily paper can really have an impact. In India, a recent survey by the Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) showed that almost half of people in the 35\u201344 age bracket were unwilling to segregate their waste at all. Too much effort, a lack of space for multiple bins and a lack of trust in local authorities to handle recyclables were quoted as reasons for resistance.The sheer amount of plastic and other waste along Indian road sides would be enough to put most people off the mammoth task of urban waste management. But for the past two decades social entrepreneur and Ashoka fellow Ravi Agarwal has been working to change a system which has the potential of improving health and environment in the country where one sixth of the world's population lives.A country of 1.2 billion people, India produces more than 55m tonnes of solid waste annually. Consumption per capita is still lower than in many developed countries, but urban planners fear that the country's exceptional growth will flood the system. The latest official Census of India statistics in 2011 showed that Bangalore's district population alone rose a staggering 47% in just ten years, making it the second fastest growing city in India, after Delhi.At times, the figures do overwhelm him, Agarwal admits during a phone interview from his base in Delhi. \"When we make 5% progress and realise the city has grown 20%, I get impatient\", he said. His answer has been to build strategic partnerships with women's groups, schools and rag pickers associations.The latter group have traditionally been crucial to India's waste management. Recycling to this date is carried out largely by the informal sector, though the nature of the work has changed. \"Waste has become incredibly complex\", Agarwal explained. \"It is no longer simply sorting glass from paper and tin cans. We now have multi-layered plastics and all kinds of new materials coming into packaging. These cannot be recycled without high tech recycling facilities.\"It is not just the volume of waste, but its hazardous contents which concern Agarwal and his team. Chemicals in products, lead in paints, pesticides in food and bio-medical waste have all contributed to the toxic mix that forms a constant threat to the land, air and water. On top of that, the demands of a rising middle class and illegal dumping from foreign countries mean that electronic waste is a growing problem.A study released last month by the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (ASSOCHAM) showed that as many as 8,500 mobile phones, 5,500 TVs and 3,000 personal computers are dismantled in Delhi every day for reuse of their component parts and materials. In the capital alone, it is estimated that over 150,000 workers are employed in official and unofficial e-recycling units.Acutely aware of the danger of disappearing income opportunities for the waste pickers, Agarwal turned the changing substance of waste into sustainable employment for those at the bottom of the economic ladder. He is currently working in two cities to help illegal waste pickers become authorised collectors.Once licensed, the workers pick up computers, fridges, TVs, mobile phones and separate the non-hazardous parts like the plastic cases, before delivering the remainders to recycling facilities. \"The idea is to take the hazardous component of the waste away from them, without threatening their livelihood\", explained Agarwal.In order to tackle the problems at large, Agarwal's organisation Toxics Link has successfully pushed for policy change and law reforms, banning the most toxic substances, including mercury, and restricting the use of many others. Agarwal believes that industry and government need to step up to the plate, but that consumers will hold the real power to demand change.Through innovative ways of communication, he aims to reach the next generation of environmental leaders. Educating the youth is a key part of the strategy, said Agarwal. \"Once they are fully aware of the dangers to their own bodies and the environment, they won't accept the situation as it is.\"Danielle Batist is communications associate at Ashoka. Unilever and Ashoka Changemakers are looking for the next generation of young sustainability entrepreneurs. Do you have an innovative\u00a0solution?\u00a0Enter it todayThis content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. Become GSB member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Sustainability", "Waste and Recycling", "Recycling", "India", "Collaboration"], "title": "India: turning waste into sustainable employment opportunities"},{"date": "2013-08-23T21:31:32Z", "country": "india", "content": "A growing number of Indians and tourists visiting the country are hiring bodyguards for protection after a series of violent attacks. Security agencies say business is booming as western visitors and local business people join celebrities and the super-rich in acquiring greater security.\"We get a lot of calls for personal security officers, often at 2 or 3am, from western business executives or people from west Asia,\" said Anubhav Khiwani, co-owner of Denetim Services, a newly established company in Delhi. \"Once or twice a month a single woman or a holidaying family will also ask for a bodyguard.\"Until now these bodyguards were mainly seen accompanying international celebrities. Last year three of Oprah Winfrey's escorts made news when they were picked up by police near Delhi for attacking photographers.\"The gang-rape of a physiotherapist in Delhi last December impacted the psyche of people across the world. A friend from Brazil, for instance, had to cancel her trip to India as her mother wouldn't let her go. So now we see two kinds of tourists, especially among women \u2212 those who feel that such things happen everywhere and don't worry about it, and those who are scared and want to avoid trouble,\" said Khiwani.Shaleni Nigam, a 44-year-old Canadian tax accountant, used to feel safe travelling alone in India, but plans to hire a bodyguard for her next visit.\"What's worrying is that attacks on women seem to be taking place in routine situations \u2212 in a bus, in a hotel room, near a village,\" she said. \"I know such attacks occur in other countries too, but it's a different world in India today than it was in the 1990s. A foreign visitor wasn't targeted in the same way.\"", "tags": ["India", "World news", "Delhi holidays", "India holidays", "Rape", "Asia"], "title": "Tourists to India hiring bodyguards for protection"},{"date": "2013-11-05T13:59:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "I'm walking up the steep slope of Benog Mountain, in the Garhwal Hills of northern India, in search of one the rarest birds in the world. The Himalayan mountain quail, called Pahari bater in Garhwali, has been extinct for more than 100 years. The last confirmed sighting was shot in 1876.In May a friend sent me an article from the Garhwal Post written by a British trekker who claimed to have seen a covey of the mountain quail 13 years ago while returning from a hike up Benog Mountain.Unlike some extinct species \u2013 think passenger pigeon \u2013 the mountain quail (Ophrysia superciliosa) had never been common. According to my copy of Salim Ali's Birds of India, it had always been restricted to two small geographical areas in the western Himalayas. Only 10 examples of the birds are held in museums around the world.Benog Mountain is opposite Cloud End, an old colonial bungalow dating back to the days of the Raj and surrounded by forests of scented deodar, oak and rhododendron. It is now a forest resort and, situated on a 2,000- metre ridge, it offers a welcome respite to the sweltering summer heat of the plains below.In colonial times Benog Mountain was a popular picnic spot for the British. From the summit one can see the whole range of the Garhwal Himalayas, including Nanda Devi, at 7,816 metres one of India's highest mountains.There is a bridle path to the top of the mountain built by Sir George Everest, who lived nearby and used mules to carry his heavy survey equipment to Benog to map the Himalayas as part of the Great Arc of India survey.Today there is only a small white Hindu temple, sacred to the local goddess Jwala Devi, on top of the mountain. In 1993 the Indian government, somewhat belatedly, designated the area as the Benog mountain quail sanctuary.I return to Cloud End \u2013 happy but mountain quail-less \u2013 after a three-hour walk. The current owner, Digvijay Agarwal, is standing on the veranda in dark glasses and a bush jacket. \"Have you ever seen the mountain quail?\" I ask him. He looks at me startled. \"Yes,\" he says, \"several times, but I have never been able to take a photograph to prove they still exist.\"Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["India", "Birds"], "title": "Letter from India: quail trail"},{"date": "2013-11-05T13:59:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "I'm walking up the steep slope of Benog Mountain, in the Garhwal Hills of northern India, in search of one the rarest birds in the world. The Himalayan mountain quail, called Pahari bater in Garhwali, has been extinct for more than 100 years. The last confirmed sighting was shot in 1876.In May a friend sent me an article from the Garhwal Post written by a British trekker who claimed to have seen a covey of the mountain quail 13 years ago while returning from a hike up Benog Mountain.Unlike some extinct species \u2013 think passenger pigeon \u2013 the mountain quail (Ophrysia superciliosa) had never been common. According to my copy of Salim Ali's Birds of India, it had always been restricted to two small geographical areas in the western Himalayas. Only 10 examples of the birds are held in museums around the world.Benog Mountain is opposite Cloud End, an old colonial bungalow dating back to the days of the Raj and surrounded by forests of scented deodar, oak and rhododendron. It is now a forest resort and, situated on a 2,000- metre ridge, it offers a welcome respite to the sweltering summer heat of the plains below.In colonial times Benog Mountain was a popular picnic spot for the British. From the summit one can see the whole range of the Garhwal Himalayas, including Nanda Devi, at 7,816 metres one of India's highest mountains.There is a bridle path to the top of the mountain built by Sir George Everest, who lived nearby and used mules to carry his heavy survey equipment to Benog to map the Himalayas as part of the Great Arc of India survey.Today there is only a small white Hindu temple, sacred to the local goddess Jwala Devi, on top of the mountain. In 1993 the Indian government, somewhat belatedly, designated the area as the Benog mountain quail sanctuary.I return to Cloud End \u2013 happy but mountain quail-less \u2013 after a three-hour walk. The current owner, Digvijay Agarwal, is standing on the veranda in dark glasses and a bush jacket. \"Have you ever seen the mountain quail?\" I ask him. He looks at me startled. \"Yes,\" he says, \"several times, but I have never been able to take a photograph to prove they still exist.\"Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["India", "Birds"], "title": "Letter from India: quail trail"},{"date": "2013-10-18T20:30:05Z", "country": "india", "content": "As the optimum period opens for flights to Mars, both India and the US are poised to launch Mars-orbiting craft. The US federal shutdown, though, threatened both missions, delaying them until the next launch window opens in 2015-2016. As it is, dispensations were granted to allow work on Nasa's orbiter, Maven, to continue and to provide essential tracking assistance for the Indian probe.The latter, Mangalyaan or Mars-craft in Hindi, is India's first interplanetary mission and is to be launched from a site in Andhra Pradesh during a three-weeks window beginning on 28 October. Primarily a technology demonstration mission, it should spend 25 days in an elongated Earth-orbit before being boosted towards Mars, where it should enter another eccentric orbit next September. The science and imaging it will perform there is regarded as a secondary objective. Even so, it is remarkable that the project was only approved as recently as August 2012.The launch period for Maven, or Mars Atmosphere and Volatile EvolutioN, opens on 18 November with its arrival at Mars also due next September. From an orbit ranging between 150km and 6,200km above the planet, it is due to investigate the planet's upper atmosphere, studying how it interacts with the solar wind and how its gases and ions are escaping into space. Such mechanisms are crucial to understanding how the Martian climate and Mars's precious water have evolved over time.", "tags": ["Space", "Science", "Mars", "Nasa", "Astronomy"], "title": "Spacewatch: India goes to Mars"},{"date": "2013-11-05T13:59:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "I'm walking up the steep slope of Benog Mountain, in the Garhwal Hills of northern India, in search of one the rarest birds in the world. The Himalayan mountain quail, called Pahari bater in Garhwali, has been extinct for more than 100 years. The last confirmed sighting was shot in 1876.In May a friend sent me an article from the Garhwal Post written by a British trekker who claimed to have seen a covey of the mountain quail 13 years ago while returning from a hike up Benog Mountain.Unlike some extinct species \u2013 think passenger pigeon \u2013 the mountain quail (Ophrysia superciliosa) had never been common. According to my copy of Salim Ali's Birds of India, it had always been restricted to two small geographical areas in the western Himalayas. Only 10 examples of the birds are held in museums around the world.Benog Mountain is opposite Cloud End, an old colonial bungalow dating back to the days of the Raj and surrounded by forests of scented deodar, oak and rhododendron. It is now a forest resort and, situated on a 2,000- metre ridge, it offers a welcome respite to the sweltering summer heat of the plains below.In colonial times Benog Mountain was a popular picnic spot for the British. From the summit one can see the whole range of the Garhwal Himalayas, including Nanda Devi, at 7,816 metres one of India's highest mountains.There is a bridle path to the top of the mountain built by Sir George Everest, who lived nearby and used mules to carry his heavy survey equipment to Benog to map the Himalayas as part of the Great Arc of India survey.Today there is only a small white Hindu temple, sacred to the local goddess Jwala Devi, on top of the mountain. In 1993 the Indian government, somewhat belatedly, designated the area as the Benog mountain quail sanctuary.I return to Cloud End \u2013 happy but mountain quail-less \u2013 after a three-hour walk. The current owner, Digvijay Agarwal, is standing on the veranda in dark glasses and a bush jacket. \"Have you ever seen the mountain quail?\" I ask him. He looks at me startled. \"Yes,\" he says, \"several times, but I have never been able to take a photograph to prove they still exist.\"Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["India", "Birds"], "title": "Letter from India: quail trail"},{"date": "2013-10-18T20:30:05Z", "country": "india", "content": "As the optimum period opens for flights to Mars, both India and the US are poised to launch Mars-orbiting craft. The US federal shutdown, though, threatened both missions, delaying them until the next launch window opens in 2015-2016. As it is, dispensations were granted to allow work on Nasa's orbiter, Maven, to continue and to provide essential tracking assistance for the Indian probe.The latter, Mangalyaan or Mars-craft in Hindi, is India's first interplanetary mission and is to be launched from a site in Andhra Pradesh during a three-weeks window beginning on 28 October. Primarily a technology demonstration mission, it should spend 25 days in an elongated Earth-orbit before being boosted towards Mars, where it should enter another eccentric orbit next September. The science and imaging it will perform there is regarded as a secondary objective. Even so, it is remarkable that the project was only approved as recently as August 2012.The launch period for Maven, or Mars Atmosphere and Volatile EvolutioN, opens on 18 November with its arrival at Mars also due next September. From an orbit ranging between 150km and 6,200km above the planet, it is due to investigate the planet's upper atmosphere, studying how it interacts with the solar wind and how its gases and ions are escaping into space. Such mechanisms are crucial to understanding how the Martian climate and Mars's precious water have evolved over time.", "tags": ["Space", "Science", "Mars", "Nasa", "Astronomy"], "title": "Spacewatch: India goes to Mars"},{"date": "2013-12-20T08:02:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Three United Nations peacekeepers from India were killed when a base sheltering civilians in South Sudan was stormed on Thursday, officials have said.The compound of the UN mission in Akobo was besieged by local youths from the Nuer community intent on revenge for alleged targeted killings of their kinsmen in the capital, Juba.Witnesses in Akobo, in South Sudan's restive Jonglei state, said the perimeter was overrun and civilians, government officials from the country's most populous tribe, the Dinka, and UN peacekeepers were among the casualties.India's UN ambassador, Asoke Mukerji, said three of his country's troops were killed. It was the first announcement of UN fatalities from this week's upsurge of ethnic-based violence.In Washington, Barack Obama issued a statement saying the conflict threatened to derail progress South Sudan has been making since gaining independence. \"Inflammatory rhetoric and targeted violence must cease,\" the US president said. \"All sides must listen to the wise counsel of their neighbors, commit to dialogue and take immediate steps to urge calm and support reconciliation.\" After the announcement by Mukerji at a meeting on UN peacekeeping, his Pakistani counterpart, Masood Khan, asked for a minute of silence and diplomats rose to pay tribute to the fallen soldiers. Mukerji said that \"unfortunately, just this very morning such militia groups have targeted and killed three soldiers from India in South Sudan\".Foreign nationals still in South Sudan crowded the airport in the capital, Juba, trying to escape. Britain's Foreign Office (FCO) said that after an air evacuation of some UK nationals on Thursday, a second plane would arrive on Friday. \"We strongly advise all British nationals in South Sudan to leave the country if they can do so safely. You may have difficulty leaving in the event of a further deterioration in security,\" the FCO warned in a statement.\"British nationals choosing to remain in South Sudan should remain alert to the local security situation, monitor the media and stay in a safe location.\" The UN has called on Yoweri Museveni, president of neighbouring Uganda to urgently mediate, while emergency flights have been laid on to help evacuate aid workers, diplomats and expats.A Nuer-led rebel militia, which claims its community is under attack by the government of South Sudan, has seized Bor, one of the country's most strategically important towns.The militia made up of military mutineers from the Sudan People's Liberation Army (SPLA) has been raised under the command of the defected General, Peter Gadet, who believes his own tribe, the Nuer, are under attack. After the storming of the UN base, Gadet said he would intervene to prevent further killings.\"It's an important distinction that the Akobo attack was not carried out by the armed opposition but by local youths,\" said Casie Copeland, a South Sudan expert with the Brussels-based monitor the International Crisis Group.As fighting in the world's newest nation has erupted in new areas beyond the capital, Juba, disturbing testimony has emerged pointing to civilian casualties and ethnically-targeted killings. Since Wednesday, the heaviest clashes have come in Bor, the main town in the notoriously restive Jonglei state which is criss-crossed by some of the young country's most aggravated ethnic fault-lines.Civilians had taken refuge with peacekeepers at the United Nations base in Bor where an unknown number of casualties were being treated.\"All the refugees are in this compound,\" said a witness before the attack, who was also inside but asked not to be named. \"We're hearing shooting in the town, there is shooting everywhere.\"He said that children were among the dead and wounded brought to the base. Peacekeepers had remained inside the UN compound while fighting raged outside.\"Outside they're burning houses and looting, no-one can leave the compound,\" he said.Since clashes broke out in Juba on Sunday fighting has occurred in half of the country's ten states. Victims and witnesses told the New York-based monitor, Human Rights Watch, that government soldiers and police have been interrogating people on the street in Juba about their ethnicity and deliberately shooting ethnic Nuer.\"The awful accounts of killings in Juba may only be the tip of the iceberg,\" said HRW's Daniel Bekele.Much of the fighting has pitted government forces loyal to the ethnic Dinka president, Salva Kiir, against soldiers and civilians from the Nuer community.The first flights out of South Sudan's capital reached neighbouring Kenya on Wednesday night where terrified escapees described hit squads going house-to-house in Juba.\"People think it's getting better,\" said aid worker Mo Ali who had been in the country for four years. \"But it's like a cancer, you think you're just about to get some part of it sorted out and something else springs up.\"He said he had seen snipers just 50 feet from where he was staying: \"You could smell the gunshots\u2026 and hear the shockwaves of what sounded like tank-fire or mortar-fire.\"Doctors at Juba's teaching hospital said they were treating nearly 300 people for gunshot wounds, most of them young men, although not all in military uniform. Its facilities have been overrun, they said, and the tiny mortuary was filled with decomposing bodies. The Red Cross and other organisations donated 250 body bags but were told that more were needed.Meanwhile, respected former government minister Jok Madut Jok said South Sudan was facing a possible slide into civil war if political leaders did not agree to urgent talks.Having just returned from an academic post in the US, he said in an open letter that the violence had been triggered by infighting in the multi-ethnic presidential guard, also known as the Tigers. Guard members from South Sudan's two largest communities -- the Dinka and the second most populous, the Nuer -- had an argument that turned into a shooting match. When Nuer members of the Tigers climbed onto a roof adjacent to the president's residence and started to fire into it, they were hit in return with artillery fire. The attack on President Kiir's compound prompted accusations of an attempted coup. A roundup of prominent critics of the government, including at least eleven former cabinet members began and the president blamed prominent Nuer politician, Riek Machar, the man he sacked six months ago from the vice president's job.After furious denunciations from Mr Kiir, reprisals have followed against the Nuer people in Juba. Soldiers dragged the Nuer pastor, Reverend Simon Nyang Lam, out of his house in the capital and killed him. \"He thought he would be ok because he was a pastor,\" a relative told HRW.Other witnesses described how seven Nuer men were killed in the compound where they were sheltering. Some of them died when soldiers shot into the building, others were gunned down as they climbed through a window and one man was shot dead as he hid in a water barrel.", "tags": ["South Sudan", "Africa", "World news"], "title": "South Sudan: UN peacekeepers from India killed"},{"date": "2013-11-05T13:59:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "I'm walking up the steep slope of Benog Mountain, in the Garhwal Hills of northern India, in search of one the rarest birds in the world. The Himalayan mountain quail, called Pahari bater in Garhwali, has been extinct for more than 100 years. The last confirmed sighting was shot in 1876.In May a friend sent me an article from the Garhwal Post written by a British trekker who claimed to have seen a covey of the mountain quail 13 years ago while returning from a hike up Benog Mountain.Unlike some extinct species \u2013 think passenger pigeon \u2013 the mountain quail (Ophrysia superciliosa) had never been common. According to my copy of Salim Ali's Birds of India, it had always been restricted to two small geographical areas in the western Himalayas. Only 10 examples of the birds are held in museums around the world.Benog Mountain is opposite Cloud End, an old colonial bungalow dating back to the days of the Raj and surrounded by forests of scented deodar, oak and rhododendron. It is now a forest resort and, situated on a 2,000- metre ridge, it offers a welcome respite to the sweltering summer heat of the plains below.In colonial times Benog Mountain was a popular picnic spot for the British. From the summit one can see the whole range of the Garhwal Himalayas, including Nanda Devi, at 7,816 metres one of India's highest mountains.There is a bridle path to the top of the mountain built by Sir George Everest, who lived nearby and used mules to carry his heavy survey equipment to Benog to map the Himalayas as part of the Great Arc of India survey.Today there is only a small white Hindu temple, sacred to the local goddess Jwala Devi, on top of the mountain. In 1993 the Indian government, somewhat belatedly, designated the area as the Benog mountain quail sanctuary.I return to Cloud End \u2013 happy but mountain quail-less \u2013 after a three-hour walk. The current owner, Digvijay Agarwal, is standing on the veranda in dark glasses and a bush jacket. \"Have you ever seen the mountain quail?\" I ask him. He looks at me startled. \"Yes,\" he says, \"several times, but I have never been able to take a photograph to prove they still exist.\"Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["India", "Birds"], "title": "Letter from India: quail trail"},{"date": "2013-10-18T20:30:05Z", "country": "india", "content": "As the optimum period opens for flights to Mars, both India and the US are poised to launch Mars-orbiting craft. The US federal shutdown, though, threatened both missions, delaying them until the next launch window opens in 2015-2016. As it is, dispensations were granted to allow work on Nasa's orbiter, Maven, to continue and to provide essential tracking assistance for the Indian probe.The latter, Mangalyaan or Mars-craft in Hindi, is India's first interplanetary mission and is to be launched from a site in Andhra Pradesh during a three-weeks window beginning on 28 October. Primarily a technology demonstration mission, it should spend 25 days in an elongated Earth-orbit before being boosted towards Mars, where it should enter another eccentric orbit next September. The science and imaging it will perform there is regarded as a secondary objective. Even so, it is remarkable that the project was only approved as recently as August 2012.The launch period for Maven, or Mars Atmosphere and Volatile EvolutioN, opens on 18 November with its arrival at Mars also due next September. From an orbit ranging between 150km and 6,200km above the planet, it is due to investigate the planet's upper atmosphere, studying how it interacts with the solar wind and how its gases and ions are escaping into space. Such mechanisms are crucial to understanding how the Martian climate and Mars's precious water have evolved over time.", "tags": ["Space", "Science", "Mars", "Nasa", "Astronomy"], "title": "Spacewatch: India goes to Mars"},{"date": "2013-12-20T08:02:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Three United Nations peacekeepers from India were killed when a base sheltering civilians in South Sudan was stormed on Thursday, officials have said.The compound of the UN mission in Akobo was besieged by local youths from the Nuer community intent on revenge for alleged targeted killings of their kinsmen in the capital, Juba.Witnesses in Akobo, in South Sudan's restive Jonglei state, said the perimeter was overrun and civilians, government officials from the country's most populous tribe, the Dinka, and UN peacekeepers were among the casualties.India's UN ambassador, Asoke Mukerji, said three of his country's troops were killed. It was the first announcement of UN fatalities from this week's upsurge of ethnic-based violence.In Washington, Barack Obama issued a statement saying the conflict threatened to derail progress South Sudan has been making since gaining independence. \"Inflammatory rhetoric and targeted violence must cease,\" the US president said. \"All sides must listen to the wise counsel of their neighbors, commit to dialogue and take immediate steps to urge calm and support reconciliation.\" After the announcement by Mukerji at a meeting on UN peacekeeping, his Pakistani counterpart, Masood Khan, asked for a minute of silence and diplomats rose to pay tribute to the fallen soldiers. Mukerji said that \"unfortunately, just this very morning such militia groups have targeted and killed three soldiers from India in South Sudan\".Foreign nationals still in South Sudan crowded the airport in the capital, Juba, trying to escape. Britain's Foreign Office (FCO) said that after an air evacuation of some UK nationals on Thursday, a second plane would arrive on Friday. \"We strongly advise all British nationals in South Sudan to leave the country if they can do so safely. You may have difficulty leaving in the event of a further deterioration in security,\" the FCO warned in a statement.\"British nationals choosing to remain in South Sudan should remain alert to the local security situation, monitor the media and stay in a safe location.\" The UN has called on Yoweri Museveni, president of neighbouring Uganda to urgently mediate, while emergency flights have been laid on to help evacuate aid workers, diplomats and expats.A Nuer-led rebel militia, which claims its community is under attack by the government of South Sudan, has seized Bor, one of the country's most strategically important towns.The militia made up of military mutineers from the Sudan People's Liberation Army (SPLA) has been raised under the command of the defected General, Peter Gadet, who believes his own tribe, the Nuer, are under attack. After the storming of the UN base, Gadet said he would intervene to prevent further killings.\"It's an important distinction that the Akobo attack was not carried out by the armed opposition but by local youths,\" said Casie Copeland, a South Sudan expert with the Brussels-based monitor the International Crisis Group.As fighting in the world's newest nation has erupted in new areas beyond the capital, Juba, disturbing testimony has emerged pointing to civilian casualties and ethnically-targeted killings. Since Wednesday, the heaviest clashes have come in Bor, the main town in the notoriously restive Jonglei state which is criss-crossed by some of the young country's most aggravated ethnic fault-lines.Civilians had taken refuge with peacekeepers at the United Nations base in Bor where an unknown number of casualties were being treated.\"All the refugees are in this compound,\" said a witness before the attack, who was also inside but asked not to be named. \"We're hearing shooting in the town, there is shooting everywhere.\"He said that children were among the dead and wounded brought to the base. Peacekeepers had remained inside the UN compound while fighting raged outside.\"Outside they're burning houses and looting, no-one can leave the compound,\" he said.Since clashes broke out in Juba on Sunday fighting has occurred in half of the country's ten states. Victims and witnesses told the New York-based monitor, Human Rights Watch, that government soldiers and police have been interrogating people on the street in Juba about their ethnicity and deliberately shooting ethnic Nuer.\"The awful accounts of killings in Juba may only be the tip of the iceberg,\" said HRW's Daniel Bekele.Much of the fighting has pitted government forces loyal to the ethnic Dinka president, Salva Kiir, against soldiers and civilians from the Nuer community.The first flights out of South Sudan's capital reached neighbouring Kenya on Wednesday night where terrified escapees described hit squads going house-to-house in Juba.\"People think it's getting better,\" said aid worker Mo Ali who had been in the country for four years. \"But it's like a cancer, you think you're just about to get some part of it sorted out and something else springs up.\"He said he had seen snipers just 50 feet from where he was staying: \"You could smell the gunshots\u2026 and hear the shockwaves of what sounded like tank-fire or mortar-fire.\"Doctors at Juba's teaching hospital said they were treating nearly 300 people for gunshot wounds, most of them young men, although not all in military uniform. Its facilities have been overrun, they said, and the tiny mortuary was filled with decomposing bodies. The Red Cross and other organisations donated 250 body bags but were told that more were needed.Meanwhile, respected former government minister Jok Madut Jok said South Sudan was facing a possible slide into civil war if political leaders did not agree to urgent talks.Having just returned from an academic post in the US, he said in an open letter that the violence had been triggered by infighting in the multi-ethnic presidential guard, also known as the Tigers. Guard members from South Sudan's two largest communities -- the Dinka and the second most populous, the Nuer -- had an argument that turned into a shooting match. When Nuer members of the Tigers climbed onto a roof adjacent to the president's residence and started to fire into it, they were hit in return with artillery fire. The attack on President Kiir's compound prompted accusations of an attempted coup. A roundup of prominent critics of the government, including at least eleven former cabinet members began and the president blamed prominent Nuer politician, Riek Machar, the man he sacked six months ago from the vice president's job.After furious denunciations from Mr Kiir, reprisals have followed against the Nuer people in Juba. Soldiers dragged the Nuer pastor, Reverend Simon Nyang Lam, out of his house in the capital and killed him. \"He thought he would be ok because he was a pastor,\" a relative told HRW.Other witnesses described how seven Nuer men were killed in the compound where they were sheltering. Some of them died when soldiers shot into the building, others were gunned down as they climbed through a window and one man was shot dead as he hid in a water barrel.", "tags": ["South Sudan", "Africa", "World news"], "title": "South Sudan: UN peacekeepers from India killed"},{"date": "2013-12-12T15:21:26Z", "country": "india", "content": "When I was 12 a carpenter would tease, follow and harass me on my way to the school. I tried to avoid him but the situation became dire when he started making lewd comments about me. One day, he pulled down my dupatta [head and shoulder scarf] and I was really shaken up. I told him to stop harassing me; sometimes I warned him he would face serious consequences, but he did not take it seriously. He kept on doing it, so sometimes I would skip school to avoid him.Because of that, I decided to quit school. My family asked me why, so I had to tell them everything. They said the man shouldn't stop me from going to school and decided to file a complaint with the school's head teacher. The school did nothing so we decided to confront the man and his family. They denied it and said it was my fault for encouraging him. We spoke to a panchayat [local government representative] but they also failed to resolve the issue.After that, my family contacted Oxfam India's project Empowerment For Rehabilitation Academic and Health. They encouraged us to file a police complaint, which led to the successful arrest of my tormentor. After going through this challenge, I decided to join Efrah and fight for the rights of women and girls. I want to stop girls and women from suffering such problems in future.Girls in our community face various dire challenges. They are always fearful about their safety while going to school or market. There is always fear of sexual harassment, teasing and domestic violence. They do not feel safe in this society.Biggest challenge: In the beginning, people judged what I was doing negatively; they objected to my family and I doing any kind of campaigning. But that just motivated me to work hard and make the campaign successful.Proudest moment: Recently, I was interviewed for All India Radio's programme on harassment in public places, which gave me a good opportunity to share my experiences and raise awareness. My future goal is to campaign throughout Delhi. In the next five to 10 years I want to conduct campaigns across the country so that every woman in India knows their rights and are empowered to fight for justice.This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To get more articles like this direct to your inbox, sign up free to become a member of the Global Development Professionals Network", "tags": ["adolescent girls - global development professionals network", "India", "Global development", "Gender", "Society", "Equality", "Global development professionals network"], "title": "The story of a girl activist - India"},{"date": "2014-03-25T13:59:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "When you arrive on a train at any major Indian railway station it is likely you will have to battle a horde of red-shirted porters clambering on to your carriage as you try to disembark. Plying for trade, they will offer to carry your luggage for a fee.But sadly the numbers of these industrious porters are declining. This is largely due to the invention of one particular item \u2013 the wheely suitcase. This innovation has been a hammer blow to the porter, and the number of coolies at stations in India has dropped significantly in the last 15 or 20 years.When we recently arrived at Dehradun station heading down south on a trip to Goa, my wife and I turned down a porter's offer of help. With a wheely suitcase and a couple of overnight bags between us, we could manage without his assistance.\"Koi baath nahi\" (\"No problem\"), my wife said, declining his offer. \"Nahi nahi baath hai\" (\"There is a problem\"), the porter retorted. \"If people like you aren't using us porters, what hope is there for us?\"Consciences piqued, when we arrived at Old Delhi station we employed a porter. Handing him the wheely suitcase, he promptly hoisted it on to his head before marching us over the footbridge and depositing us in exactly the right spot to board our next train. He had more than justified his fee \u2013 for just 100 rupees ($1.60, even less if you're willing to haggle), the porter had done us a great service.Bollywood superstar Amitabh Bachchan famously played the role of a militant porter campaigning for the rights of his colleagues in the film Coolie in the 1980s. Today's porters could do with a similar figurehead, and continued employment by the travelling public. Otherwise their red-shirted scurrying at busy stations could become a footnote in Indian history, which would be a great shame.Every week the Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["India", "India holidays", "World news"], "title": "Letter from India: Wheels of industry"},{"date": "2014-03-25T13:59:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "When you arrive on a train at any major Indian railway station it is likely you will have to battle a horde of red-shirted porters clambering on to your carriage as you try to disembark. Plying for trade, they will offer to carry your luggage for a fee.But sadly the numbers of these industrious porters are declining. This is largely due to the invention of one particular item \u2013 the wheely suitcase. This innovation has been a hammer blow to the porter, and the number of coolies at stations in India has dropped significantly in the last 15 or 20 years.When we recently arrived at Dehradun station heading down south on a trip to Goa, my wife and I turned down a porter's offer of help. With a wheely suitcase and a couple of overnight bags between us, we could manage without his assistance.\"Koi baath nahi\" (\"No problem\"), my wife said, declining his offer. \"Nahi nahi baath hai\" (\"There is a problem\"), the porter retorted. \"If people like you aren't using us porters, what hope is there for us?\"Consciences piqued, when we arrived at Old Delhi station we employed a porter. Handing him the wheely suitcase, he promptly hoisted it on to his head before marching us over the footbridge and depositing us in exactly the right spot to board our next train. He had more than justified his fee \u2013 for just 100 rupees ($1.60, even less if you're willing to haggle), the porter had done us a great service.Bollywood superstar Amitabh Bachchan famously played the role of a militant porter campaigning for the rights of his colleagues in the film Coolie in the 1980s. Today's porters could do with a similar figurehead, and continued employment by the travelling public. Otherwise their red-shirted scurrying at busy stations could become a footnote in Indian history, which would be a great shame.Every week the Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["India", "India holidays", "World news"], "title": "Letter from India: Wheels of industry"},{"date": "2014-03-18T09:35:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "For nearly three months now, Indian hunters have been futilely pursuing a man-eating tiger, which has reportedly killed 10 people in the northern states of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, near the famed Corbett National Park, a sanctuary for wildlife. Most victims were poor villagers attacked while taking cattle to graze, or collecting firewood. Conflict between humans and animals has been steadily rising in India. A leopard ran through the small town of Meerut in February, and there have been increasingly frequent incidents of elephants clashing with humans. With habitat for wildlife reducing, and some animal populations such as tigers and elephants steadily increasing, conservationists say India needs to figure out a plan to reduce conflict. Which may first begin with using the loaded word, man-eater, more circumspectly. Dr Ravi Chellam, wildlife and conservation biologist, says the word man-eater is overused, and often misused. \"I prefer the term animals involved in conflict rather than man eater. Man-eater is a complicated term; there needs to be an investigation first into whether the animal has actually killed people, why and how and also to establish the identity of the individual animal. The benefit of doubt has to be given to the animal. Often, there isn't any such investigation, and people rush to call an animal a man-eater when it is really not.\"Chellam also points out that Indians don't always know how to handle human-animal conflict, making the man-eater tag even more dangerous. \"Indians behave in the most abysmal way when they see an animal. Take the case of the Meerut leopard. Why were there so many people crowding around? Why were there people trying to hit it with sticks? Animals need to be left alone.\" In the short term, India needs to figure out a plan for dealing with tigers that attack humans. Some wildlife lovers have called for the rehabilitation of these tigers, but most conservationists agree capturing and rehabilitating them is difficult, expensive and risky, and confining them in India's abysmal zoos would be worse, which leaves putting them down as the only option. \"If tigers kill people persistently, they have to be removed from the population at any cost. Capturing may be a popular option from an animal rights perspective, but in the larger conservation interest removing them is important. Man-eating incidences decrease public goodwill and degrade political will for wildlife conservation,\" says wildlife activist Sanjay Gubbi, tiger program coordinator for Panthera.But in the hysteria over \"rampaging\"animals, lasting solutions are ignored, says Chellam. \"Our parks are often right next to human settlements, they have temples in them, there are pilgrims coming in and out, there's loud music playing. The fact is, that given we have over a billion people, it's amazing we don't have more conflict.\" Chellam says conflict is a long term issue, but is often dealt with in a piecemeal fashion, with no proper land use planning, cumulative impact assessments or wildlife management. \"We only wake up to conflict when humans are attacked or killed. For instance, there is no buffer zone between the wildlife and human settlements. Villagers live cheek by jowl with wildlife. You can't keep packing more and more animals which are large and potentially dangerous in limited spaces without some conflict,\" he adds.Gubbi says, as habitats reduce, it's time for some hard decisions. \"We have to decide that certain areas have to be prioritised for tiger preservation. Economic activities have to be stalled in such areas,\" he argues.  But whose economic activity is the villain here? Chellam is critical of the attitude, often seen in Indian conservation, that sees local communities as culprits. \"The fact is wildlife is also being destroyed by people like you and me, because of our lifestyles. We want faster highways, more water, more power; it's all this that poses an irreversible threat to wildlife, far more so than a village guy taking a few goats into the forest to graze. But our current thinking, framed by city dwellers, sees local people as the primary threat to wildlife. Forest officials say they want to keep out local people, but what about tourists who often consume lots of resources, generate waste and have the potential to damage habitats? \" Chellam has been a long time supporter of the Forest Rights Act, a 2006 law that gives forest dwelling communities the right to forest land, but is still to be properly implemented, and is often misused by forest officials. What's clear from the increased hostility of local forest dwellers is that keeping them out of conservation discussions is leading to alarming consequences. Local villagers are saying, 'I don't want an elephant in my backyard. If you want it, you take it! says Chellam. \"Only the government knows why the government is saving the tiger,\" said Govind Singh, a farmer who lives near the Corbett National Park, quoted in the fortnightly magazine India Today. Such resentment is on the increase, says Chellam. \"If that's the way we are going, we can write the epitaph of wildlife conservation in India.\"", "tags": ["India", "Wildlife"], "title": "India grapples with wildlife-human conflict|Kavitha Rao"},{"date": "2014-03-25T13:59:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "When you arrive on a train at any major Indian railway station it is likely you will have to battle a horde of red-shirted porters clambering on to your carriage as you try to disembark. Plying for trade, they will offer to carry your luggage for a fee.But sadly the numbers of these industrious porters are declining. This is largely due to the invention of one particular item \u2013 the wheely suitcase. This innovation has been a hammer blow to the porter, and the number of coolies at stations in India has dropped significantly in the last 15 or 20 years.When we recently arrived at Dehradun station heading down south on a trip to Goa, my wife and I turned down a porter's offer of help. With a wheely suitcase and a couple of overnight bags between us, we could manage without his assistance.\"Koi baath nahi\" (\"No problem\"), my wife said, declining his offer. \"Nahi nahi baath hai\" (\"There is a problem\"), the porter retorted. \"If people like you aren't using us porters, what hope is there for us?\"Consciences piqued, when we arrived at Old Delhi station we employed a porter. Handing him the wheely suitcase, he promptly hoisted it on to his head before marching us over the footbridge and depositing us in exactly the right spot to board our next train. He had more than justified his fee \u2013 for just 100 rupees ($1.60, even less if you're willing to haggle), the porter had done us a great service.Bollywood superstar Amitabh Bachchan famously played the role of a militant porter campaigning for the rights of his colleagues in the film Coolie in the 1980s. Today's porters could do with a similar figurehead, and continued employment by the travelling public. Otherwise their red-shirted scurrying at busy stations could become a footnote in Indian history, which would be a great shame.Every week the Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["India", "India holidays", "World news"], "title": "Letter from India: Wheels of industry"},{"date": "2014-03-18T09:35:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "For nearly three months now, Indian hunters have been futilely pursuing a man-eating tiger, which has reportedly killed 10 people in the northern states of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, near the famed Corbett National Park, a sanctuary for wildlife. Most victims were poor villagers attacked while taking cattle to graze, or collecting firewood. Conflict between humans and animals has been steadily rising in India. A leopard ran through the small town of Meerut in February, and there have been increasingly frequent incidents of elephants clashing with humans. With habitat for wildlife reducing, and some animal populations such as tigers and elephants steadily increasing, conservationists say India needs to figure out a plan to reduce conflict. Which may first begin with using the loaded word, man-eater, more circumspectly. Dr Ravi Chellam, wildlife and conservation biologist, says the word man-eater is overused, and often misused. \"I prefer the term animals involved in conflict rather than man eater. Man-eater is a complicated term; there needs to be an investigation first into whether the animal has actually killed people, why and how and also to establish the identity of the individual animal. The benefit of doubt has to be given to the animal. Often, there isn't any such investigation, and people rush to call an animal a man-eater when it is really not.\"Chellam also points out that Indians don't always know how to handle human-animal conflict, making the man-eater tag even more dangerous. \"Indians behave in the most abysmal way when they see an animal. Take the case of the Meerut leopard. Why were there so many people crowding around? Why were there people trying to hit it with sticks? Animals need to be left alone.\" In the short term, India needs to figure out a plan for dealing with tigers that attack humans. Some wildlife lovers have called for the rehabilitation of these tigers, but most conservationists agree capturing and rehabilitating them is difficult, expensive and risky, and confining them in India's abysmal zoos would be worse, which leaves putting them down as the only option. \"If tigers kill people persistently, they have to be removed from the population at any cost. Capturing may be a popular option from an animal rights perspective, but in the larger conservation interest removing them is important. Man-eating incidences decrease public goodwill and degrade political will for wildlife conservation,\" says wildlife activist Sanjay Gubbi, tiger program coordinator for Panthera.But in the hysteria over \"rampaging\"animals, lasting solutions are ignored, says Chellam. \"Our parks are often right next to human settlements, they have temples in them, there are pilgrims coming in and out, there's loud music playing. The fact is, that given we have over a billion people, it's amazing we don't have more conflict.\" Chellam says conflict is a long term issue, but is often dealt with in a piecemeal fashion, with no proper land use planning, cumulative impact assessments or wildlife management. \"We only wake up to conflict when humans are attacked or killed. For instance, there is no buffer zone between the wildlife and human settlements. Villagers live cheek by jowl with wildlife. You can't keep packing more and more animals which are large and potentially dangerous in limited spaces without some conflict,\" he adds.Gubbi says, as habitats reduce, it's time for some hard decisions. \"We have to decide that certain areas have to be prioritised for tiger preservation. Economic activities have to be stalled in such areas,\" he argues.  But whose economic activity is the villain here? Chellam is critical of the attitude, often seen in Indian conservation, that sees local communities as culprits. \"The fact is wildlife is also being destroyed by people like you and me, because of our lifestyles. We want faster highways, more water, more power; it's all this that poses an irreversible threat to wildlife, far more so than a village guy taking a few goats into the forest to graze. But our current thinking, framed by city dwellers, sees local people as the primary threat to wildlife. Forest officials say they want to keep out local people, but what about tourists who often consume lots of resources, generate waste and have the potential to damage habitats? \" Chellam has been a long time supporter of the Forest Rights Act, a 2006 law that gives forest dwelling communities the right to forest land, but is still to be properly implemented, and is often misused by forest officials. What's clear from the increased hostility of local forest dwellers is that keeping them out of conservation discussions is leading to alarming consequences. Local villagers are saying, 'I don't want an elephant in my backyard. If you want it, you take it! says Chellam. \"Only the government knows why the government is saving the tiger,\" said Govind Singh, a farmer who lives near the Corbett National Park, quoted in the fortnightly magazine India Today. Such resentment is on the increase, says Chellam. \"If that's the way we are going, we can write the epitaph of wildlife conservation in India.\"", "tags": ["India", "Wildlife"], "title": "India grapples with wildlife-human conflict|Kavitha Rao"},{"date": "2014-03-17T12:31:06Z", "country": "india", "content": "Assam, the northeastern Indian state, east of Bangladesh and bordering China to the north, is an area described by politicians as India's 'future powerhouse' and is a key focus point of the country's dam building programme.The ambition of planners in New Delhi is not in doubt. So far plans for more than 160 dams \u2013 both big and small \u2013 have been announced in the northeast, the majority of them to be built in the remote, mountainous state of Arunachal Pradesh and harnessing the waters of the mighty Brahmaputra river and its tributaries.It's planned that in total more than 60,000 MW of electricity will be generated from the planned dams. More projects are likely to follow.Not to be outdone, China, which borders Arunachal Pradesh, is involved in a major dam building programme on its side of the border, also using the waters of the Brahmaputra \u2013 which it calls the Yarlung Tsangpo.The dam building programme is highly controversial: critics say it not only ignores geological and ecological factors \u2013 it also fails to take into account the impact of climate change in the region.The Brahmaputra, six miles wide in places, is one of the world's major rivers, winding for nearly 1,864 miles from the Tibetan Plateau through China, India and Bangladesh before joining with the Ganges and flowing out into the Bay of Bengal.It is an extremely volatile, tempestuous river system: the Brahmaputra's waters rise dramatically during monsoon season, causing widespread flooding, erosion and misery for many thousands of mostly subsistence farmers.Ashwini Saikia is a farmer on the banks of the Brahmaputra river, in the small settlement of Rohomoria in northern Assam. Even now, in pre monsoon season when the river is low, there is the \"plop, plop\" sound of land falling into the waters.\"Each year the river has eaten away more and more of my land. Then in 2010 the waters rose so much I lost my house for the fifth time in the last 15 years,\" says Saikia. He has given up farming and is now being forced to move with his family and livestock \u2013 to where he's not entirely sure.Partha Das is an Assamese academic who has been studying the Brahmaputra for several years. He also runs Aaranyak, a locally based environmental NGO.\"The dam building programme has many question marks hanging over it including the fact that the northeast is a highly seismic region, with an earthquake in 1950 completely altering the geological structure of the Brahmaputra river basin.\"Then there is the whole question of climate change, which has scarcely been mentioned by the planners. Already we're seeing an increase in intense rainfall events that are accelerating the high rate of soil erosion and landslides in mountainous regions. And as temperatures rise and glaciers melt on the Tibetan Plateau and in the Himalayas, river flow levels \u2013 at least in the short term \u2013 are likely to increase.\"The Indian government defends its dam building programme, saying the power generated will mean that the country will be able to wean itself off its dependence on coal for energy, most of it low quality and extremely polluting.But many in the northeast, who have long felt cut off from the rest of India and neglected by central government, are unconvinced by New Delhi's arguments.There are accusations that the mostly privately backed dam building projects are money making exercises for the wealthy: most of the power produced will be exported to other parts of India and not used to build up local industries.The northeast is a tribal area: indigenous peoples say the influx of labourers from elsewhere in India is threatening local culture. They say the dams will also lead to more deforestation \u2013 and threaten some of India's most important wildlife habitats.Opponents of the dam building say no proper overall plan has been put in place: though India and China recently reached agreement on sharing various river resources, there is no specific deal on managing the Brahmaputra's waters.Protests about the dams has been growing, with work on what is India's biggest dam construction project to date \u2013 the 2,000MW Lower Subansiri dam on one of the Brahmaputra's tributaries \u2013 repeatedly held up.", "tags": ["Hydropower", "Rivers", "Energy", "Environment", "Coal", "Fossil fuels", "India", "World news", "Climate change"], "title": "The dams of India: boon or bane?"},{"date": "2014-03-25T13:59:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "When you arrive on a train at any major Indian railway station it is likely you will have to battle a horde of red-shirted porters clambering on to your carriage as you try to disembark. Plying for trade, they will offer to carry your luggage for a fee.But sadly the numbers of these industrious porters are declining. This is largely due to the invention of one particular item \u2013 the wheely suitcase. This innovation has been a hammer blow to the porter, and the number of coolies at stations in India has dropped significantly in the last 15 or 20 years.When we recently arrived at Dehradun station heading down south on a trip to Goa, my wife and I turned down a porter's offer of help. With a wheely suitcase and a couple of overnight bags between us, we could manage without his assistance.\"Koi baath nahi\" (\"No problem\"), my wife said, declining his offer. \"Nahi nahi baath hai\" (\"There is a problem\"), the porter retorted. \"If people like you aren't using us porters, what hope is there for us?\"Consciences piqued, when we arrived at Old Delhi station we employed a porter. Handing him the wheely suitcase, he promptly hoisted it on to his head before marching us over the footbridge and depositing us in exactly the right spot to board our next train. He had more than justified his fee \u2013 for just 100 rupees ($1.60, even less if you're willing to haggle), the porter had done us a great service.Bollywood superstar Amitabh Bachchan famously played the role of a militant porter campaigning for the rights of his colleagues in the film Coolie in the 1980s. Today's porters could do with a similar figurehead, and continued employment by the travelling public. Otherwise their red-shirted scurrying at busy stations could become a footnote in Indian history, which would be a great shame.Every week the Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["India", "India holidays", "World news"], "title": "Letter from India: Wheels of industry"},{"date": "2014-03-18T09:35:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "For nearly three months now, Indian hunters have been futilely pursuing a man-eating tiger, which has reportedly killed 10 people in the northern states of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, near the famed Corbett National Park, a sanctuary for wildlife. Most victims were poor villagers attacked while taking cattle to graze, or collecting firewood. Conflict between humans and animals has been steadily rising in India. A leopard ran through the small town of Meerut in February, and there have been increasingly frequent incidents of elephants clashing with humans. With habitat for wildlife reducing, and some animal populations such as tigers and elephants steadily increasing, conservationists say India needs to figure out a plan to reduce conflict. Which may first begin with using the loaded word, man-eater, more circumspectly. Dr Ravi Chellam, wildlife and conservation biologist, says the word man-eater is overused, and often misused. \"I prefer the term animals involved in conflict rather than man eater. Man-eater is a complicated term; there needs to be an investigation first into whether the animal has actually killed people, why and how and also to establish the identity of the individual animal. The benefit of doubt has to be given to the animal. Often, there isn't any such investigation, and people rush to call an animal a man-eater when it is really not.\"Chellam also points out that Indians don't always know how to handle human-animal conflict, making the man-eater tag even more dangerous. \"Indians behave in the most abysmal way when they see an animal. Take the case of the Meerut leopard. Why were there so many people crowding around? Why were there people trying to hit it with sticks? Animals need to be left alone.\" In the short term, India needs to figure out a plan for dealing with tigers that attack humans. Some wildlife lovers have called for the rehabilitation of these tigers, but most conservationists agree capturing and rehabilitating them is difficult, expensive and risky, and confining them in India's abysmal zoos would be worse, which leaves putting them down as the only option. \"If tigers kill people persistently, they have to be removed from the population at any cost. Capturing may be a popular option from an animal rights perspective, but in the larger conservation interest removing them is important. Man-eating incidences decrease public goodwill and degrade political will for wildlife conservation,\" says wildlife activist Sanjay Gubbi, tiger program coordinator for Panthera.But in the hysteria over \"rampaging\"animals, lasting solutions are ignored, says Chellam. \"Our parks are often right next to human settlements, they have temples in them, there are pilgrims coming in and out, there's loud music playing. The fact is, that given we have over a billion people, it's amazing we don't have more conflict.\" Chellam says conflict is a long term issue, but is often dealt with in a piecemeal fashion, with no proper land use planning, cumulative impact assessments or wildlife management. \"We only wake up to conflict when humans are attacked or killed. For instance, there is no buffer zone between the wildlife and human settlements. Villagers live cheek by jowl with wildlife. You can't keep packing more and more animals which are large and potentially dangerous in limited spaces without some conflict,\" he adds.Gubbi says, as habitats reduce, it's time for some hard decisions. \"We have to decide that certain areas have to be prioritised for tiger preservation. Economic activities have to be stalled in such areas,\" he argues.  But whose economic activity is the villain here? Chellam is critical of the attitude, often seen in Indian conservation, that sees local communities as culprits. \"The fact is wildlife is also being destroyed by people like you and me, because of our lifestyles. We want faster highways, more water, more power; it's all this that poses an irreversible threat to wildlife, far more so than a village guy taking a few goats into the forest to graze. But our current thinking, framed by city dwellers, sees local people as the primary threat to wildlife. Forest officials say they want to keep out local people, but what about tourists who often consume lots of resources, generate waste and have the potential to damage habitats? \" Chellam has been a long time supporter of the Forest Rights Act, a 2006 law that gives forest dwelling communities the right to forest land, but is still to be properly implemented, and is often misused by forest officials. What's clear from the increased hostility of local forest dwellers is that keeping them out of conservation discussions is leading to alarming consequences. Local villagers are saying, 'I don't want an elephant in my backyard. If you want it, you take it! says Chellam. \"Only the government knows why the government is saving the tiger,\" said Govind Singh, a farmer who lives near the Corbett National Park, quoted in the fortnightly magazine India Today. Such resentment is on the increase, says Chellam. \"If that's the way we are going, we can write the epitaph of wildlife conservation in India.\"", "tags": ["India", "Wildlife"], "title": "India grapples with wildlife-human conflict|Kavitha Rao"},{"date": "2014-03-17T12:31:06Z", "country": "india", "content": "Assam, the northeastern Indian state, east of Bangladesh and bordering China to the north, is an area described by politicians as India's 'future powerhouse' and is a key focus point of the country's dam building programme.The ambition of planners in New Delhi is not in doubt. So far plans for more than 160 dams \u2013 both big and small \u2013 have been announced in the northeast, the majority of them to be built in the remote, mountainous state of Arunachal Pradesh and harnessing the waters of the mighty Brahmaputra river and its tributaries.It's planned that in total more than 60,000 MW of electricity will be generated from the planned dams. More projects are likely to follow.Not to be outdone, China, which borders Arunachal Pradesh, is involved in a major dam building programme on its side of the border, also using the waters of the Brahmaputra \u2013 which it calls the Yarlung Tsangpo.The dam building programme is highly controversial: critics say it not only ignores geological and ecological factors \u2013 it also fails to take into account the impact of climate change in the region.The Brahmaputra, six miles wide in places, is one of the world's major rivers, winding for nearly 1,864 miles from the Tibetan Plateau through China, India and Bangladesh before joining with the Ganges and flowing out into the Bay of Bengal.It is an extremely volatile, tempestuous river system: the Brahmaputra's waters rise dramatically during monsoon season, causing widespread flooding, erosion and misery for many thousands of mostly subsistence farmers.Ashwini Saikia is a farmer on the banks of the Brahmaputra river, in the small settlement of Rohomoria in northern Assam. Even now, in pre monsoon season when the river is low, there is the \"plop, plop\" sound of land falling into the waters.\"Each year the river has eaten away more and more of my land. Then in 2010 the waters rose so much I lost my house for the fifth time in the last 15 years,\" says Saikia. He has given up farming and is now being forced to move with his family and livestock \u2013 to where he's not entirely sure.Partha Das is an Assamese academic who has been studying the Brahmaputra for several years. He also runs Aaranyak, a locally based environmental NGO.\"The dam building programme has many question marks hanging over it including the fact that the northeast is a highly seismic region, with an earthquake in 1950 completely altering the geological structure of the Brahmaputra river basin.\"Then there is the whole question of climate change, which has scarcely been mentioned by the planners. Already we're seeing an increase in intense rainfall events that are accelerating the high rate of soil erosion and landslides in mountainous regions. And as temperatures rise and glaciers melt on the Tibetan Plateau and in the Himalayas, river flow levels \u2013 at least in the short term \u2013 are likely to increase.\"The Indian government defends its dam building programme, saying the power generated will mean that the country will be able to wean itself off its dependence on coal for energy, most of it low quality and extremely polluting.But many in the northeast, who have long felt cut off from the rest of India and neglected by central government, are unconvinced by New Delhi's arguments.There are accusations that the mostly privately backed dam building projects are money making exercises for the wealthy: most of the power produced will be exported to other parts of India and not used to build up local industries.The northeast is a tribal area: indigenous peoples say the influx of labourers from elsewhere in India is threatening local culture. They say the dams will also lead to more deforestation \u2013 and threaten some of India's most important wildlife habitats.Opponents of the dam building say no proper overall plan has been put in place: though India and China recently reached agreement on sharing various river resources, there is no specific deal on managing the Brahmaputra's waters.Protests about the dams has been growing, with work on what is India's biggest dam construction project to date \u2013 the 2,000MW Lower Subansiri dam on one of the Brahmaputra's tributaries \u2013 repeatedly held up.", "tags": ["Hydropower", "Rivers", "Energy", "Environment", "Coal", "Fossil fuels", "India", "World news", "Climate change"], "title": "The dams of India: boon or bane?"},{"date": "2014-03-26T13:40:14Z", "country": "india", "content": "India's ruling Congress party has pledged to create millions of jobs for the poor, increase health spending, and revive the emerging power's faltering economy in a last-ditch effort to stave off defeat at national elections.Unveiling his party's manifesto for elections beginning 7 April, Rahul Gandhi, the scion of the country's most famous political dynasty and the face of the Congress campaign for re-election, said $1tn (\u00a3600bn) would be spent on India's inadequate infrastructure and a universal pension scheme created if his party was returned to power.Addressing several hundred Congress faithful, Gandhi, 43, vowed to confound pollsters' predictions that Congress was set for a humiliating defeat to the Hindu nationalist opposition after a decade in power. \"We are going to construct a manufacturing backbone that will give millions of millions of people jobs,\" Gandhi told the gathering at the party's headquarters in the capital, New Delhi.The outgoing prime minister, Manmohan Singh, 81, said the next Congress government would be free of corruption, while apparently simultaneously saying that such graft was inevitable in India.\"In a developing economy corruption cannot be wished away but every effort has to be made to overcome these tendencies which give rise to corruption,\" Singh told the crowd.Singh, who has been repeatedly criticised for presiding over a series of scandals that badly undermined support for his party, defended his Congress-led government's record since it was first elected in 2004, saying 140 million people had been pulled out of poverty.But both he and Gandhi conceded much more needed to be done to overcome still endemic poverty for tens of millions of Indians, reform the business environment and help revive an economy running at a decade low of 4.7% growth.A 48-page manifesto, which officials said was largely authored by Gandhi, released on Wednesday, also focused on its traditional welfare policies for the poor, saying millions would be given access to affordable medical care and housing, while all Indians would have a bank account within five years.Opinion polls show that Congress, which has dominated Indian politics since independence, could lose more than half of its seats in the Lok Sabha lower house of parliament when results are announced on 16 May.The Bharatiya Janata party (BJP) and its controversial prime ministerial candidate, Narendra Modi, are widely expected to come to power with the help of small regional parties.Modi, a popular but polarising figure who has been chief minister of the western Gujarat state since 2001, is also campaigning on a platform of job creation and development.Officials from the BJP called the Congress manifesto a \"document of deceit\".\"This is not a manifesto ... It is a rank insult to the people of the country,\" Ravi Shankar Prasad, a BJP spokesman, said.The BJP will release its manifesto next week.Sonia Gandhi, the Congress party president, said she was confident of victory in the elections, which are to be held in nine phases, ending on 12 May with counting and results taking place four days later. More than 800 million Indians are eligible to vote.Sonia Gandhi also said Congress stood for a secular India, in a pointed reference to Modi, whose critics accuse him of failing as state chief minister to stop riots in Gujarat in 2002 in which more than 1,000 people, mostly Muslims, died.\"We want an India which is secular, where which religion you belong to or what language you speak or which region you're from does not matter,\" she said.", "tags": ["India", "World news", "Rahul Gandhi", "Narendra Modi"], "title": "India election: Congress manifesto pledges $1tn spending spree"},{"date": "2014-05-18T19:19:21Z", "country": "india", "content": "Today, 18 May 2014, may well go down in history as the day when Britain finally left India. Narendra Modi's victory in the elections marks the end of a long era in which the structures of power did not differ greatly from those through which Britain ruled the subcontinent. India under the Congress party was in many ways a continuation of the British Raj by other means. The last of midnight's children are now a dwindling handful of almost 70-year-olds, but it is not the passing of the independence generation that makes the difference.The India those men and women lived in was one that, like its predecessor, was centralised, garrisoned, culturally constricted, and ruled by a relatively small English-speaking elite whose attitude toward the masses was alternately benevolent and exploitative but never inclusive. Universal suffrage gave Indians a vote but not, at least for much of the time, a voice. When that voice was occasionally heard, as it was in 1977 in the elections that followed the disastrously unpopular Emergency declared by prime minister Indira Gandhi, there could be a sudden sense of its almost volcanic capacity to remake the political landscape, but such moments were rare.Now that voice has been heard again. It has endorsed a new kind of leader in the shape of Mr Modi. He is from the lower castes. He is not a natural English speaker. He has no truck with the secular and socialist traditions that shaped Congress. But, more important, that voice has announced a new kind of India. In the old India the poor were there to be helped, when the elite remembered to do so or when they needed to seek or, in effect, to buy votes. The middling classes were taken for granted and sometimes snubbed. The new India, most observers agree, is not interested in handouts, and refuses to be snubbed.Instead it wants the obstacles it sees as impeding its aspirations swept away. It has discarded the deference it displayed toward the Gandhi family and toward the Anglicised or, these days, Americanised top levels of society. Whether in its older and purer socialist guise or in its later embrace of the market, Congress has lost its magic, even though the party includes some profoundly decent and well-intentioned people. The core constituency of the Bharatiya Janata party, meanwhile, never shared the non-sectarian values that Congress imperfectly upheld and wants an India where its version of Hinduism has unchallenged primacy.It should be obvious that these underlying changes in Indian society have brought us Mr Modi and not the other way round. He sensed a great shift in mood and played to it. Nevertheless it matters enormously what kind of man he is. The answer is that we really do not know. It is not only that the question of what role he played in the Gujarat massacres of 2002 remains unresolved. Nor that his personality is rather closed, reserved, even secretive. It is more that the balance in his character between pragmatism and the extremist ideology with which he has been associated since he was a young man is not clear. Pragmatism would lead him to avoid sharp confrontation with Indian Muslims, perhaps offsetting any trouble at home by a peace-seeking diplomacy with Pakistan. It would temper any savage cuts in the subsidy programmes vital to many Indians on the breadline. It would put a measurable distance between the party and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh movement. And pragmatism would lead to caution in a man who has never held national office before. He has an unexpectedly large mandate, but India is not Gujarat. It is a very big ship to steer, and he will need all the help he can get.He knows that the aspirations that have swept him to power must be satisfied in part \u2013 they could never be satisfied in full \u2013 if his new beginning is not to flounder in a morass of disappointment and recrimination from which the temptation might be to take a extreme nationalist way out. Whatever else he is or is not, Mr Modi is a gifted politician. We must hope that he understands that his new India will sooner or later hold him to account.\u2022\u00a0This article was amended on 19 May 2014 because an earlier version gave a date of 18 March 2014 when it should have said 18 May 2014.", "tags": ["India", "Narendra Modi", "World news"], "title": "India: another tryst with destiny | Editorial"},{"date": "2014-05-18T19:19:21Z", "country": "india", "content": "Today, 18 May 2014, may well go down in history as the day when Britain finally left India. Narendra Modi's victory in the elections marks the end of a long era in which the structures of power did not differ greatly from those through which Britain ruled the subcontinent. India under the Congress party was in many ways a continuation of the British Raj by other means. The last of midnight's children are now a dwindling handful of almost 70-year-olds, but it is not the passing of the independence generation that makes the difference.The India those men and women lived in was one that, like its predecessor, was centralised, garrisoned, culturally constricted, and ruled by a relatively small English-speaking elite whose attitude toward the masses was alternately benevolent and exploitative but never inclusive. Universal suffrage gave Indians a vote but not, at least for much of the time, a voice. When that voice was occasionally heard, as it was in 1977 in the elections that followed the disastrously unpopular Emergency declared by prime minister Indira Gandhi, there could be a sudden sense of its almost volcanic capacity to remake the political landscape, but such moments were rare.Now that voice has been heard again. It has endorsed a new kind of leader in the shape of Mr Modi. He is from the lower castes. He is not a natural English speaker. He has no truck with the secular and socialist traditions that shaped Congress. But, more important, that voice has announced a new kind of India. In the old India the poor were there to be helped, when the elite remembered to do so or when they needed to seek or, in effect, to buy votes. The middling classes were taken for granted and sometimes snubbed. The new India, most observers agree, is not interested in handouts, and refuses to be snubbed.Instead it wants the obstacles it sees as impeding its aspirations swept away. It has discarded the deference it displayed toward the Gandhi family and toward the Anglicised or, these days, Americanised top levels of society. Whether in its older and purer socialist guise or in its later embrace of the market, Congress has lost its magic, even though the party includes some profoundly decent and well-intentioned people. The core constituency of the Bharatiya Janata party, meanwhile, never shared the non-sectarian values that Congress imperfectly upheld and wants an India where its version of Hinduism has unchallenged primacy.It should be obvious that these underlying changes in Indian society have brought us Mr Modi and not the other way round. He sensed a great shift in mood and played to it. Nevertheless it matters enormously what kind of man he is. The answer is that we really do not know. It is not only that the question of what role he played in the Gujarat massacres of 2002 remains unresolved. Nor that his personality is rather closed, reserved, even secretive. It is more that the balance in his character between pragmatism and the extremist ideology with which he has been associated since he was a young man is not clear. Pragmatism would lead him to avoid sharp confrontation with Indian Muslims, perhaps offsetting any trouble at home by a peace-seeking diplomacy with Pakistan. It would temper any savage cuts in the subsidy programmes vital to many Indians on the breadline. It would put a measurable distance between the party and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh movement. And pragmatism would lead to caution in a man who has never held national office before. He has an unexpectedly large mandate, but India is not Gujarat. It is a very big ship to steer, and he will need all the help he can get.He knows that the aspirations that have swept him to power must be satisfied in part \u2013 they could never be satisfied in full \u2013 if his new beginning is not to flounder in a morass of disappointment and recrimination from which the temptation might be to take a extreme nationalist way out. Whatever else he is or is not, Mr Modi is a gifted politician. We must hope that he understands that his new India will sooner or later hold him to account.\u2022\u00a0This article was amended on 19 May 2014 because an earlier version gave a date of 18 March 2014 when it should have said 18 May 2014.", "tags": ["India", "Narendra Modi", "World news"], "title": "India: another tryst with destiny | Editorial"},{"date": "2014-04-08T10:23:01Z", "country": "india", "content": "Voting is under way in India\u2019s general election and the Guardian has extensive coverage of news from the polls. But who are the alternative online voices from India that can shed light on what is happening in the country?We asked our readers, Facebook fans and Twitter followers in India to recommend the people that they follow online for a different take on events in India. Starting with political blogger Politicalbaaba, we move on to Atul Kumar Mishra, 29, the founder of the online forum The Frustrated Indian and linked Facebook page.Born and brought up in Patna, Bihar, Mishra, who now lives in Gurgaon, Haryana, runs the site with a team of six \"highly motivated and concerned\" Indians living across the country: Suneil Shrivastav, Sunil Pandey, Rahul Sharma, Shefali Vaidya, Kishore V. Ramsubramonian and Yogi Raj. According to Mishra, the site started as \"a vague and motiveless social experiment\" and is now a thriving discussion forum.India is a huge country and there are many issues that we face every day \u2013 there is rampant corruption, India is the top target of cross-border terrorism, there are issues with population, pollution, poverty, sanitation, poor infrastructure, healthcare, education, religious intolerance, women's safety, the rich poor divide, inflation ...The issues are many and each political party claims it can cure all these social evils, but if I were to name one issue for this election, I\u2019d say it is the \"pseudo-secularism\" sold by parties in the name of secularism and unfair reward. People are being awarded education, jobs and even promotions based on their religion and caste.There has been a cultural harmony in India that has kept us intact till now, but new political factions keep sprouting. Each one of them claims of being the custodian of a religious or a linguistic minority. This creates animosity. Communal riots are on a rise and the leaders fan the embers for their own selfish interests. This election is nothing but a tussle between political heavyweights who represent different strata of society. We need to put an end to this. We need to make India a land of equal opportunity. We need to get out of our shallow mindsets.Yes it totally does. It generates a healthy bond between people and their representatives. Social media allows highly granular and targeted messaging. Websites like Facebook and Twitter are a revolution \u2013 we can directly tag the politicians and tell them how we feel. We can praise them, we can criticise them or we can simply ignore them, but it is always a good thing to have an access to them. Although the advent of social media is still a relatively new phenomenon, there are a large number of first and second-time young voters who spend more than two hours online.Currently the politicians have a very agenda-based presence. They are on social media to announce different agendas and policies of their parties. In their spare time, they keep criticising their political opponents. What we need is the following:Who are the online voices in India that help provide an alternative perspective on the election? Let us know in the comments and share your views of the 2014 election by using the GuardianWitness contribute button.", "tags": ["India elections 2014", "India", "Social media"], "title": "Social India: 'Cultural harmony has kept India intact till now'"},{"date": "2014-05-18T19:19:21Z", "country": "india", "content": "Today, 18 May 2014, may well go down in history as the day when Britain finally left India. Narendra Modi's victory in the elections marks the end of a long era in which the structures of power did not differ greatly from those through which Britain ruled the subcontinent. India under the Congress party was in many ways a continuation of the British Raj by other means. The last of midnight's children are now a dwindling handful of almost 70-year-olds, but it is not the passing of the independence generation that makes the difference.The India those men and women lived in was one that, like its predecessor, was centralised, garrisoned, culturally constricted, and ruled by a relatively small English-speaking elite whose attitude toward the masses was alternately benevolent and exploitative but never inclusive. Universal suffrage gave Indians a vote but not, at least for much of the time, a voice. When that voice was occasionally heard, as it was in 1977 in the elections that followed the disastrously unpopular Emergency declared by prime minister Indira Gandhi, there could be a sudden sense of its almost volcanic capacity to remake the political landscape, but such moments were rare.Now that voice has been heard again. It has endorsed a new kind of leader in the shape of Mr Modi. He is from the lower castes. He is not a natural English speaker. He has no truck with the secular and socialist traditions that shaped Congress. But, more important, that voice has announced a new kind of India. In the old India the poor were there to be helped, when the elite remembered to do so or when they needed to seek or, in effect, to buy votes. The middling classes were taken for granted and sometimes snubbed. The new India, most observers agree, is not interested in handouts, and refuses to be snubbed.Instead it wants the obstacles it sees as impeding its aspirations swept away. It has discarded the deference it displayed toward the Gandhi family and toward the Anglicised or, these days, Americanised top levels of society. Whether in its older and purer socialist guise or in its later embrace of the market, Congress has lost its magic, even though the party includes some profoundly decent and well-intentioned people. The core constituency of the Bharatiya Janata party, meanwhile, never shared the non-sectarian values that Congress imperfectly upheld and wants an India where its version of Hinduism has unchallenged primacy.It should be obvious that these underlying changes in Indian society have brought us Mr Modi and not the other way round. He sensed a great shift in mood and played to it. Nevertheless it matters enormously what kind of man he is. The answer is that we really do not know. It is not only that the question of what role he played in the Gujarat massacres of 2002 remains unresolved. Nor that his personality is rather closed, reserved, even secretive. It is more that the balance in his character between pragmatism and the extremist ideology with which he has been associated since he was a young man is not clear. Pragmatism would lead him to avoid sharp confrontation with Indian Muslims, perhaps offsetting any trouble at home by a peace-seeking diplomacy with Pakistan. It would temper any savage cuts in the subsidy programmes vital to many Indians on the breadline. It would put a measurable distance between the party and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh movement. And pragmatism would lead to caution in a man who has never held national office before. He has an unexpectedly large mandate, but India is not Gujarat. It is a very big ship to steer, and he will need all the help he can get.He knows that the aspirations that have swept him to power must be satisfied in part \u2013 they could never be satisfied in full \u2013 if his new beginning is not to flounder in a morass of disappointment and recrimination from which the temptation might be to take a extreme nationalist way out. Whatever else he is or is not, Mr Modi is a gifted politician. We must hope that he understands that his new India will sooner or later hold him to account.\u2022\u00a0This article was amended on 19 May 2014 because an earlier version gave a date of 18 March 2014 when it should have said 18 May 2014.", "tags": ["India", "Narendra Modi", "World news"], "title": "India: another tryst with destiny | Editorial"},{"date": "2014-04-08T10:23:01Z", "country": "india", "content": "Voting is under way in India\u2019s general election and the Guardian has extensive coverage of news from the polls. But who are the alternative online voices from India that can shed light on what is happening in the country?We asked our readers, Facebook fans and Twitter followers in India to recommend the people that they follow online for a different take on events in India. Starting with political blogger Politicalbaaba, we move on to Atul Kumar Mishra, 29, the founder of the online forum The Frustrated Indian and linked Facebook page.Born and brought up in Patna, Bihar, Mishra, who now lives in Gurgaon, Haryana, runs the site with a team of six \"highly motivated and concerned\" Indians living across the country: Suneil Shrivastav, Sunil Pandey, Rahul Sharma, Shefali Vaidya, Kishore V. Ramsubramonian and Yogi Raj. According to Mishra, the site started as \"a vague and motiveless social experiment\" and is now a thriving discussion forum.India is a huge country and there are many issues that we face every day \u2013 there is rampant corruption, India is the top target of cross-border terrorism, there are issues with population, pollution, poverty, sanitation, poor infrastructure, healthcare, education, religious intolerance, women's safety, the rich poor divide, inflation ...The issues are many and each political party claims it can cure all these social evils, but if I were to name one issue for this election, I\u2019d say it is the \"pseudo-secularism\" sold by parties in the name of secularism and unfair reward. People are being awarded education, jobs and even promotions based on their religion and caste.There has been a cultural harmony in India that has kept us intact till now, but new political factions keep sprouting. Each one of them claims of being the custodian of a religious or a linguistic minority. This creates animosity. Communal riots are on a rise and the leaders fan the embers for their own selfish interests. This election is nothing but a tussle between political heavyweights who represent different strata of society. We need to put an end to this. We need to make India a land of equal opportunity. We need to get out of our shallow mindsets.Yes it totally does. It generates a healthy bond between people and their representatives. Social media allows highly granular and targeted messaging. Websites like Facebook and Twitter are a revolution \u2013 we can directly tag the politicians and tell them how we feel. We can praise them, we can criticise them or we can simply ignore them, but it is always a good thing to have an access to them. Although the advent of social media is still a relatively new phenomenon, there are a large number of first and second-time young voters who spend more than two hours online.Currently the politicians have a very agenda-based presence. They are on social media to announce different agendas and policies of their parties. In their spare time, they keep criticising their political opponents. What we need is the following:Who are the online voices in India that help provide an alternative perspective on the election? Let us know in the comments and share your views of the 2014 election by using the GuardianWitness contribute button.", "tags": ["India elections 2014", "India", "Social media"], "title": "Social India: 'Cultural harmony has kept India intact till now'"},{"date": "2014-04-07T10:26:28Z", "country": "india", "content": "With millions of votes to be cast, India\u2019s general election is one of the biggest political events on the planet. Navigating this landscape can be tricky, so in addition to the Guardian\u2019s coverage of the polls, we asked readers and followers of the Guardian\u2019s social media accounts who are based in India to recommend the online voices they follow.Who are the bloggers, tweeters or Facebook users that provide an alternative view of events in India and the election?Thanks for all your suggestions \u2013 you can add others in the comments on this post. In a series of posts we will hear from a selection of those nominated, starting with Politicalbaaba, a blogger on Indian politics from Mumbai who writes under a pseudonym. Politicalbaaba started the blog in July 2013 and tweets as @Politicalbaaba.Economic development \u2013 India's growth story is a shambles. Job creation is very low, corporate and investor confidence is also low while job security for people employed is a key concern. The threat of a rating downgrade is looming large if an unstable government comes to power. Persistently high inflation is eroding the purchasing power of the people. Depreciation of the rupee has long-term consequences for an economy which is a net importer. If a strong decisive government doesn't come to power, India will be pushed back another 5 \u2013 10 years, so economic growth is on top of the agenda, especially for the youth, who form a significant part of the population now.Most politicians in India are not available online but social media is a powerful tool that they can't ignore any longer. A politician online makes him a commoner: people can interact with politicians (previously the privilege of only journalists) and ask questions and get answers. The tool is very powerful and can help politicians articulate their views. In traditional methods of electioneering, people used to get to know of their views only through print or digital media. On social media you get to hear it from the horse's mouth. It makes you feel he/she is one among you, so I'm disappoionted that they are not using this powerful medium.In a variety of ways: Parties that do not have a social media presence will find it increasingly difficult to connect with the young voters.Who are the online voices in India that help provide an alternative perspective on the election? Let us know in the comments and share your views of everyday India by using the GuardianWitness contribute button.", "tags": ["India elections 2014", "India", "Social media"], "title": "Social India: 'Most politicians in India are not available online'"},{"date": "2014-05-18T19:19:21Z", "country": "india", "content": "Today, 18 May 2014, may well go down in history as the day when Britain finally left India. Narendra Modi's victory in the elections marks the end of a long era in which the structures of power did not differ greatly from those through which Britain ruled the subcontinent. India under the Congress party was in many ways a continuation of the British Raj by other means. The last of midnight's children are now a dwindling handful of almost 70-year-olds, but it is not the passing of the independence generation that makes the difference.The India those men and women lived in was one that, like its predecessor, was centralised, garrisoned, culturally constricted, and ruled by a relatively small English-speaking elite whose attitude toward the masses was alternately benevolent and exploitative but never inclusive. Universal suffrage gave Indians a vote but not, at least for much of the time, a voice. When that voice was occasionally heard, as it was in 1977 in the elections that followed the disastrously unpopular Emergency declared by prime minister Indira Gandhi, there could be a sudden sense of its almost volcanic capacity to remake the political landscape, but such moments were rare.Now that voice has been heard again. It has endorsed a new kind of leader in the shape of Mr Modi. He is from the lower castes. He is not a natural English speaker. He has no truck with the secular and socialist traditions that shaped Congress. But, more important, that voice has announced a new kind of India. In the old India the poor were there to be helped, when the elite remembered to do so or when they needed to seek or, in effect, to buy votes. The middling classes were taken for granted and sometimes snubbed. The new India, most observers agree, is not interested in handouts, and refuses to be snubbed.Instead it wants the obstacles it sees as impeding its aspirations swept away. It has discarded the deference it displayed toward the Gandhi family and toward the Anglicised or, these days, Americanised top levels of society. Whether in its older and purer socialist guise or in its later embrace of the market, Congress has lost its magic, even though the party includes some profoundly decent and well-intentioned people. The core constituency of the Bharatiya Janata party, meanwhile, never shared the non-sectarian values that Congress imperfectly upheld and wants an India where its version of Hinduism has unchallenged primacy.It should be obvious that these underlying changes in Indian society have brought us Mr Modi and not the other way round. He sensed a great shift in mood and played to it. Nevertheless it matters enormously what kind of man he is. The answer is that we really do not know. It is not only that the question of what role he played in the Gujarat massacres of 2002 remains unresolved. Nor that his personality is rather closed, reserved, even secretive. It is more that the balance in his character between pragmatism and the extremist ideology with which he has been associated since he was a young man is not clear. Pragmatism would lead him to avoid sharp confrontation with Indian Muslims, perhaps offsetting any trouble at home by a peace-seeking diplomacy with Pakistan. It would temper any savage cuts in the subsidy programmes vital to many Indians on the breadline. It would put a measurable distance between the party and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh movement. And pragmatism would lead to caution in a man who has never held national office before. He has an unexpectedly large mandate, but India is not Gujarat. It is a very big ship to steer, and he will need all the help he can get.He knows that the aspirations that have swept him to power must be satisfied in part \u2013 they could never be satisfied in full \u2013 if his new beginning is not to flounder in a morass of disappointment and recrimination from which the temptation might be to take a extreme nationalist way out. Whatever else he is or is not, Mr Modi is a gifted politician. We must hope that he understands that his new India will sooner or later hold him to account.\u2022\u00a0This article was amended on 19 May 2014 because an earlier version gave a date of 18 March 2014 when it should have said 18 May 2014.", "tags": ["India", "Narendra Modi", "World news"], "title": "India: another tryst with destiny | Editorial"},{"date": "2014-04-08T10:23:01Z", "country": "india", "content": "Voting is under way in India\u2019s general election and the Guardian has extensive coverage of news from the polls. But who are the alternative online voices from India that can shed light on what is happening in the country?We asked our readers, Facebook fans and Twitter followers in India to recommend the people that they follow online for a different take on events in India. Starting with political blogger Politicalbaaba, we move on to Atul Kumar Mishra, 29, the founder of the online forum The Frustrated Indian and linked Facebook page.Born and brought up in Patna, Bihar, Mishra, who now lives in Gurgaon, Haryana, runs the site with a team of six \"highly motivated and concerned\" Indians living across the country: Suneil Shrivastav, Sunil Pandey, Rahul Sharma, Shefali Vaidya, Kishore V. Ramsubramonian and Yogi Raj. According to Mishra, the site started as \"a vague and motiveless social experiment\" and is now a thriving discussion forum.India is a huge country and there are many issues that we face every day \u2013 there is rampant corruption, India is the top target of cross-border terrorism, there are issues with population, pollution, poverty, sanitation, poor infrastructure, healthcare, education, religious intolerance, women's safety, the rich poor divide, inflation ...The issues are many and each political party claims it can cure all these social evils, but if I were to name one issue for this election, I\u2019d say it is the \"pseudo-secularism\" sold by parties in the name of secularism and unfair reward. People are being awarded education, jobs and even promotions based on their religion and caste.There has been a cultural harmony in India that has kept us intact till now, but new political factions keep sprouting. Each one of them claims of being the custodian of a religious or a linguistic minority. This creates animosity. Communal riots are on a rise and the leaders fan the embers for their own selfish interests. This election is nothing but a tussle between political heavyweights who represent different strata of society. We need to put an end to this. We need to make India a land of equal opportunity. We need to get out of our shallow mindsets.Yes it totally does. It generates a healthy bond between people and their representatives. Social media allows highly granular and targeted messaging. Websites like Facebook and Twitter are a revolution \u2013 we can directly tag the politicians and tell them how we feel. We can praise them, we can criticise them or we can simply ignore them, but it is always a good thing to have an access to them. Although the advent of social media is still a relatively new phenomenon, there are a large number of first and second-time young voters who spend more than two hours online.Currently the politicians have a very agenda-based presence. They are on social media to announce different agendas and policies of their parties. In their spare time, they keep criticising their political opponents. What we need is the following:Who are the online voices in India that help provide an alternative perspective on the election? Let us know in the comments and share your views of the 2014 election by using the GuardianWitness contribute button.", "tags": ["India elections 2014", "India", "Social media"], "title": "Social India: 'Cultural harmony has kept India intact till now'"},{"date": "2014-04-07T10:26:28Z", "country": "india", "content": "With millions of votes to be cast, India\u2019s general election is one of the biggest political events on the planet. Navigating this landscape can be tricky, so in addition to the Guardian\u2019s coverage of the polls, we asked readers and followers of the Guardian\u2019s social media accounts who are based in India to recommend the online voices they follow.Who are the bloggers, tweeters or Facebook users that provide an alternative view of events in India and the election?Thanks for all your suggestions \u2013 you can add others in the comments on this post. In a series of posts we will hear from a selection of those nominated, starting with Politicalbaaba, a blogger on Indian politics from Mumbai who writes under a pseudonym. Politicalbaaba started the blog in July 2013 and tweets as @Politicalbaaba.Economic development \u2013 India's growth story is a shambles. Job creation is very low, corporate and investor confidence is also low while job security for people employed is a key concern. The threat of a rating downgrade is looming large if an unstable government comes to power. Persistently high inflation is eroding the purchasing power of the people. Depreciation of the rupee has long-term consequences for an economy which is a net importer. If a strong decisive government doesn't come to power, India will be pushed back another 5 \u2013 10 years, so economic growth is on top of the agenda, especially for the youth, who form a significant part of the population now.Most politicians in India are not available online but social media is a powerful tool that they can't ignore any longer. A politician online makes him a commoner: people can interact with politicians (previously the privilege of only journalists) and ask questions and get answers. The tool is very powerful and can help politicians articulate their views. In traditional methods of electioneering, people used to get to know of their views only through print or digital media. On social media you get to hear it from the horse's mouth. It makes you feel he/she is one among you, so I'm disappoionted that they are not using this powerful medium.In a variety of ways: Parties that do not have a social media presence will find it increasingly difficult to connect with the young voters.Who are the online voices in India that help provide an alternative perspective on the election? Let us know in the comments and share your views of everyday India by using the GuardianWitness contribute button.", "tags": ["India elections 2014", "India", "Social media"], "title": "Social India: 'Most politicians in India are not available online'"},{"date": "2014-06-26T13:52:34Z", "country": "india", "content": "India has the highest number of undernourished people in the world. According to the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) that figure currently stands at 217 million and more than 30% of children are born underweight. Against this backdrop, lack of refrigeration in rural India is leading to millions of tonnes of fresh produce going to waste every year. India is the largest producer and consumer of milk in the world; 130m tons of milk are produced annually by rural farmers in India, yet a significant proportion of this is lost.Lack of a reliable electricity supply is one of the biggest challenges. Around 400 million people are without access to a reliable power supply, and some communities consider themselves lucky if they get 10 hours of electricity per day.It's hoped that innovation can help solve the problem. Refrigeration company Promethean Power has developed a new thermal battery which led to the creation of a Rapid Milk Chiller (RMC), which is now being deployed in the agricultural areas of Maharashtra, West Bengal and Tamil Nadu. The Rapid Milk Chiller uses a combination of software and reconfigurable hardware from National Instruments (NI). The aim is to eliminate much of the waste, drive up nutritional standards and improve the livelihoods of millions of rural dairy farmers.The impact of chillingMilk production in India tends to come from millions of individual farmers who have one or two cows and produce five to 10 litres of milk each day. They take that milk to a village collection centre where milk from about 30 to 50 farmers is accumulated. From there, it will quickly be transported to a chilling centre. The process occurs twice a day, as milking is carried out morning and evening.Not only does twice-a-day transportation come at a high cost in terms of diesel but, in India's hot climate, milk spoils within five hours so time is of the essence. In the hot season, farmers can lose as much as 30% of their milk to spoilage.The five-hour window to chill the milk makes it unviable to collect milk from locations that are distant from the chilling centres. The obvious answer is to chill the milk in the village where it is produced. In some cases this was previously addressed by use of diesel generators, but that meant higher capital and operating costs, not to mention noise and pollution.A thermal battery could be a solution. Unlike an electrical battery, it stores energy in the form of thermal energy.By making ice, you store energy, and when you melt the ice, you release energy. This is the key to rapidly chilling the milk and storing it. The thermal battery uses the five or six hours of electricity that is available in the villages to charge the battery, and when the power goes out it continues to function.The Rapid Milk Chiller, which is capable of chilling up to 500 litres per collection, gives farmers the ability to chill and store milk even when grid power is out. The milk can be cooled to 4C in a matter of seconds, arresting bacteria growth and improving milk quality.There are now a number of dairy companies using the Rapid Milk Chiller, including Hatsun Agro, Amul and Heritage Foods.The leaders of the project believe that the use of diesel generators can be dramatically reduced. From a social perspective, improvements in the quality of milk supplied can increase its nutritional value, which could have economic benefits for the rural communities where they are based.With the potential to install as many as 1,000 milk chillers in the next five years, with the hope that each new RMC system can help more than 30 farming families, thereby having a direct impact on approximately 30,000 dairy farmers and one million milk drinkers in India.The plan is to expand the technology globally to other countries with large rural areas that are off-grid or only partially serviced. The same principle can be applied not only to milk but other perishable items such as fruits and vegetables.Rahman Jamal is National Instruments technical and marketing director for Europe. NI supported the Rapid Milk Chiller through its Planet NI programmeThe role of business in development hub is funded by Business Call to Action. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled advertisement feature. Find out more here.Join the community of sustainability professionals and experts. Become a GSB member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Business", "Technology", "Agriculture", "Innovation", "Renewable energy", "Farming"], "title": "Saving milk from spoilage in rural India"},{"date": "2014-05-18T19:19:21Z", "country": "india", "content": "Today, 18 May 2014, may well go down in history as the day when Britain finally left India. Narendra Modi's victory in the elections marks the end of a long era in which the structures of power did not differ greatly from those through which Britain ruled the subcontinent. India under the Congress party was in many ways a continuation of the British Raj by other means. The last of midnight's children are now a dwindling handful of almost 70-year-olds, but it is not the passing of the independence generation that makes the difference.The India those men and women lived in was one that, like its predecessor, was centralised, garrisoned, culturally constricted, and ruled by a relatively small English-speaking elite whose attitude toward the masses was alternately benevolent and exploitative but never inclusive. Universal suffrage gave Indians a vote but not, at least for much of the time, a voice. When that voice was occasionally heard, as it was in 1977 in the elections that followed the disastrously unpopular Emergency declared by prime minister Indira Gandhi, there could be a sudden sense of its almost volcanic capacity to remake the political landscape, but such moments were rare.Now that voice has been heard again. It has endorsed a new kind of leader in the shape of Mr Modi. He is from the lower castes. He is not a natural English speaker. He has no truck with the secular and socialist traditions that shaped Congress. But, more important, that voice has announced a new kind of India. In the old India the poor were there to be helped, when the elite remembered to do so or when they needed to seek or, in effect, to buy votes. The middling classes were taken for granted and sometimes snubbed. The new India, most observers agree, is not interested in handouts, and refuses to be snubbed.Instead it wants the obstacles it sees as impeding its aspirations swept away. It has discarded the deference it displayed toward the Gandhi family and toward the Anglicised or, these days, Americanised top levels of society. Whether in its older and purer socialist guise or in its later embrace of the market, Congress has lost its magic, even though the party includes some profoundly decent and well-intentioned people. The core constituency of the Bharatiya Janata party, meanwhile, never shared the non-sectarian values that Congress imperfectly upheld and wants an India where its version of Hinduism has unchallenged primacy.It should be obvious that these underlying changes in Indian society have brought us Mr Modi and not the other way round. He sensed a great shift in mood and played to it. Nevertheless it matters enormously what kind of man he is. The answer is that we really do not know. It is not only that the question of what role he played in the Gujarat massacres of 2002 remains unresolved. Nor that his personality is rather closed, reserved, even secretive. It is more that the balance in his character between pragmatism and the extremist ideology with which he has been associated since he was a young man is not clear. Pragmatism would lead him to avoid sharp confrontation with Indian Muslims, perhaps offsetting any trouble at home by a peace-seeking diplomacy with Pakistan. It would temper any savage cuts in the subsidy programmes vital to many Indians on the breadline. It would put a measurable distance between the party and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh movement. And pragmatism would lead to caution in a man who has never held national office before. He has an unexpectedly large mandate, but India is not Gujarat. It is a very big ship to steer, and he will need all the help he can get.He knows that the aspirations that have swept him to power must be satisfied in part \u2013 they could never be satisfied in full \u2013 if his new beginning is not to flounder in a morass of disappointment and recrimination from which the temptation might be to take a extreme nationalist way out. Whatever else he is or is not, Mr Modi is a gifted politician. We must hope that he understands that his new India will sooner or later hold him to account.\u2022\u00a0This article was amended on 19 May 2014 because an earlier version gave a date of 18 March 2014 when it should have said 18 May 2014.", "tags": ["India", "Narendra Modi", "World news"], "title": "India: another tryst with destiny | Editorial"},{"date": "2014-04-08T10:23:01Z", "country": "india", "content": "Voting is under way in India\u2019s general election and the Guardian has extensive coverage of news from the polls. But who are the alternative online voices from India that can shed light on what is happening in the country?We asked our readers, Facebook fans and Twitter followers in India to recommend the people that they follow online for a different take on events in India. Starting with political blogger Politicalbaaba, we move on to Atul Kumar Mishra, 29, the founder of the online forum The Frustrated Indian and linked Facebook page.Born and brought up in Patna, Bihar, Mishra, who now lives in Gurgaon, Haryana, runs the site with a team of six \"highly motivated and concerned\" Indians living across the country: Suneil Shrivastav, Sunil Pandey, Rahul Sharma, Shefali Vaidya, Kishore V. Ramsubramonian and Yogi Raj. According to Mishra, the site started as \"a vague and motiveless social experiment\" and is now a thriving discussion forum.India is a huge country and there are many issues that we face every day \u2013 there is rampant corruption, India is the top target of cross-border terrorism, there are issues with population, pollution, poverty, sanitation, poor infrastructure, healthcare, education, religious intolerance, women's safety, the rich poor divide, inflation ...The issues are many and each political party claims it can cure all these social evils, but if I were to name one issue for this election, I\u2019d say it is the \"pseudo-secularism\" sold by parties in the name of secularism and unfair reward. People are being awarded education, jobs and even promotions based on their religion and caste.There has been a cultural harmony in India that has kept us intact till now, but new political factions keep sprouting. Each one of them claims of being the custodian of a religious or a linguistic minority. This creates animosity. Communal riots are on a rise and the leaders fan the embers for their own selfish interests. This election is nothing but a tussle between political heavyweights who represent different strata of society. We need to put an end to this. We need to make India a land of equal opportunity. We need to get out of our shallow mindsets.Yes it totally does. It generates a healthy bond between people and their representatives. Social media allows highly granular and targeted messaging. Websites like Facebook and Twitter are a revolution \u2013 we can directly tag the politicians and tell them how we feel. We can praise them, we can criticise them or we can simply ignore them, but it is always a good thing to have an access to them. Although the advent of social media is still a relatively new phenomenon, there are a large number of first and second-time young voters who spend more than two hours online.Currently the politicians have a very agenda-based presence. They are on social media to announce different agendas and policies of their parties. In their spare time, they keep criticising their political opponents. What we need is the following:Who are the online voices in India that help provide an alternative perspective on the election? Let us know in the comments and share your views of the 2014 election by using the GuardianWitness contribute button.", "tags": ["India elections 2014", "India", "Social media"], "title": "Social India: 'Cultural harmony has kept India intact till now'"},{"date": "2014-04-07T10:26:28Z", "country": "india", "content": "With millions of votes to be cast, India\u2019s general election is one of the biggest political events on the planet. Navigating this landscape can be tricky, so in addition to the Guardian\u2019s coverage of the polls, we asked readers and followers of the Guardian\u2019s social media accounts who are based in India to recommend the online voices they follow.Who are the bloggers, tweeters or Facebook users that provide an alternative view of events in India and the election?Thanks for all your suggestions \u2013 you can add others in the comments on this post. In a series of posts we will hear from a selection of those nominated, starting with Politicalbaaba, a blogger on Indian politics from Mumbai who writes under a pseudonym. Politicalbaaba started the blog in July 2013 and tweets as @Politicalbaaba.Economic development \u2013 India's growth story is a shambles. Job creation is very low, corporate and investor confidence is also low while job security for people employed is a key concern. The threat of a rating downgrade is looming large if an unstable government comes to power. Persistently high inflation is eroding the purchasing power of the people. Depreciation of the rupee has long-term consequences for an economy which is a net importer. If a strong decisive government doesn't come to power, India will be pushed back another 5 \u2013 10 years, so economic growth is on top of the agenda, especially for the youth, who form a significant part of the population now.Most politicians in India are not available online but social media is a powerful tool that they can't ignore any longer. A politician online makes him a commoner: people can interact with politicians (previously the privilege of only journalists) and ask questions and get answers. The tool is very powerful and can help politicians articulate their views. In traditional methods of electioneering, people used to get to know of their views only through print or digital media. On social media you get to hear it from the horse's mouth. It makes you feel he/she is one among you, so I'm disappoionted that they are not using this powerful medium.In a variety of ways: Parties that do not have a social media presence will find it increasingly difficult to connect with the young voters.Who are the online voices in India that help provide an alternative perspective on the election? Let us know in the comments and share your views of everyday India by using the GuardianWitness contribute button.", "tags": ["India elections 2014", "India", "Social media"], "title": "Social India: 'Most politicians in India are not available online'"},{"date": "2014-06-26T13:52:34Z", "country": "india", "content": "India has the highest number of undernourished people in the world. According to the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) that figure currently stands at 217 million and more than 30% of children are born underweight. Against this backdrop, lack of refrigeration in rural India is leading to millions of tonnes of fresh produce going to waste every year. India is the largest producer and consumer of milk in the world; 130m tons of milk are produced annually by rural farmers in India, yet a significant proportion of this is lost.Lack of a reliable electricity supply is one of the biggest challenges. Around 400 million people are without access to a reliable power supply, and some communities consider themselves lucky if they get 10 hours of electricity per day.It's hoped that innovation can help solve the problem. Refrigeration company Promethean Power has developed a new thermal battery which led to the creation of a Rapid Milk Chiller (RMC), which is now being deployed in the agricultural areas of Maharashtra, West Bengal and Tamil Nadu. The Rapid Milk Chiller uses a combination of software and reconfigurable hardware from National Instruments (NI). The aim is to eliminate much of the waste, drive up nutritional standards and improve the livelihoods of millions of rural dairy farmers.The impact of chillingMilk production in India tends to come from millions of individual farmers who have one or two cows and produce five to 10 litres of milk each day. They take that milk to a village collection centre where milk from about 30 to 50 farmers is accumulated. From there, it will quickly be transported to a chilling centre. The process occurs twice a day, as milking is carried out morning and evening.Not only does twice-a-day transportation come at a high cost in terms of diesel but, in India's hot climate, milk spoils within five hours so time is of the essence. In the hot season, farmers can lose as much as 30% of their milk to spoilage.The five-hour window to chill the milk makes it unviable to collect milk from locations that are distant from the chilling centres. The obvious answer is to chill the milk in the village where it is produced. In some cases this was previously addressed by use of diesel generators, but that meant higher capital and operating costs, not to mention noise and pollution.A thermal battery could be a solution. Unlike an electrical battery, it stores energy in the form of thermal energy.By making ice, you store energy, and when you melt the ice, you release energy. This is the key to rapidly chilling the milk and storing it. The thermal battery uses the five or six hours of electricity that is available in the villages to charge the battery, and when the power goes out it continues to function.The Rapid Milk Chiller, which is capable of chilling up to 500 litres per collection, gives farmers the ability to chill and store milk even when grid power is out. The milk can be cooled to 4C in a matter of seconds, arresting bacteria growth and improving milk quality.There are now a number of dairy companies using the Rapid Milk Chiller, including Hatsun Agro, Amul and Heritage Foods.The leaders of the project believe that the use of diesel generators can be dramatically reduced. From a social perspective, improvements in the quality of milk supplied can increase its nutritional value, which could have economic benefits for the rural communities where they are based.With the potential to install as many as 1,000 milk chillers in the next five years, with the hope that each new RMC system can help more than 30 farming families, thereby having a direct impact on approximately 30,000 dairy farmers and one million milk drinkers in India.The plan is to expand the technology globally to other countries with large rural areas that are off-grid or only partially serviced. The same principle can be applied not only to milk but other perishable items such as fruits and vegetables.Rahman Jamal is National Instruments technical and marketing director for Europe. NI supported the Rapid Milk Chiller through its Planet NI programmeThe role of business in development hub is funded by Business Call to Action. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled advertisement feature. Find out more here.Join the community of sustainability professionals and experts. Become a GSB member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Business", "Technology", "Agriculture", "Innovation", "Renewable energy", "Farming"], "title": "Saving milk from spoilage in rural India"},{"date": "2014-04-22T15:09:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "Make inequality a political campaign issue: Despite being important to the electorate, inequality is absent from major political campaigns. Inequality clearly matters in Asia. A recent poll found that 82% of Indians see it as a major problem. It doesn't take an economist or a sociologist to know that such sharp inequalities are unsustainable. But curiously, in the loud political discourse that assaults us non-stop in the run-up to the general elections, none of the major parties has made fighting inequality a real issue in their campaigns.Introduce land reforms and raise taxation for the wealthy: We should work towards reducing asset inequality through redistributive land reforms but also through inheritance taxes, preventing monopoly of control over water, forests and mineral resources and reducing financial concentration. The equality of opportunity needs to be increased through good quality and universal public provision of essential amenities and social services. We can raise the public resources for doing all this by taxing the wealthy more and by increasing the effective taxation of corporations, which have benefited greatly from the boom and more than doubled their share of national income, but not been taxed accordingly.Give a voice to oppressed groups: We can tackle bias against caste and gender first of all by recognising the value and dignity of all work (including unpaid work) and all workers (including those in the most difficult arduous and degraded occupations). We should also provide a greater voice to traditionally oppressed and suppressed groups, including by enabling unions and association, and making public and corporate private activity more transparent and accountable to the people generally.Improve the balance of mass media: The media in India plays a role in sustaining inequality. This is becoming an urgent problem. We must take measures to reduce corporate takeover and manipulation of mass media.Eliminate caste discrimination: Caste discrimination is still all pervasive. Discrimination based on caste status is a root cause of the high poverty levels that caste-affected people experience. Most Dalits, live below the poverty line, earn less than the minimum wage, have no access to education, experience segregation in access to housing and suffer from numerous diseases, not least because of lack of access to safe drinking water and sanitation. This inequality is exacerbated by the lack of implementation of existing laws to protect the Dalits.Harness the power of technology: Policymakers should not forget that technology has helped in reducing some of the access barriers in India, particularly in relation to access to information. Policymakers should focus on making technology cheaper and deepening its penetration.Widen access to quality basic services: A two-tier system has been created, with largely privatised quality education and health care for those who can pay, and a large population left to fend for themselves with very poor quality public services.Make women more visible in public life and institutions: It is shocking to see that in India women make up only 5% of the total police force, just two out of 24 supreme court judges and as we are going through polls right now, only 11% of the last parliament are women.Ensure that India's growth is for the benefit of the many, not the few: India is a place of increasingly stark extremes in wealth. In the same India where millions use smartphones, millions live in poverty. Within India, there are many different countries. One is high-flying and tech-savvy, with people driving flashy cars in and out of top-starred hotels and clubs. Another is white-collared middle class, and another is still struggling to survive.Make development inclusive of those with disabilities: As far as India is concerned, we might score very highly in terms of growth of physical infrastructure, but most of the public places are inaccessible to people with disabilities. As per the 2011 census, India has about 2.7 million people with disabilities, and only a handful of those enjoy education and/or employment.Challenge the growth agenda: Beware of phrases like 'inclusive growth' and 'growth with a human face'. These concepts are not helpful and basically serve the purpose of hiding the structural violence and poverty in India.Ensure that all groups and communities can express their voice without fear: While they may have the vote, Dalits in the past experienced election violence. In the last election the National Dalit Election Watch (NDEW) recorded 263 incidents of election violence against Dalits, formally known as untouchables, in India. The violence manifests in several forms with Dalits being threatened, abused and prevented from voting and also violently attacked after the polls.Stop the blame game: Instead of addressing the actual causes of inequality, we indulge in a blame game. Both the middle classes and political leaders have a tendency to blame the poor for their poverty, rather than to consider broader structural issues. When visiting Anand in Gujarat last year, Narendra Modi blamed the huge problem of child malnutrition in the state on the parents of the children. There is a very strong tendency among the middle class to treat poverty and inequality as natural and inevitable.Read the rest of the advice shared on the live Q&A here. Join the community of global development professionals and experts. Become a GDPN member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox", "tags": ["Global development professionals network", "Social protection", "Gender", "Race and inequality", "Economic policy", "Global development", "Policy and advocacy", "India", "India elections 2014", "Equality", "Poverty"], "title": "13 ways to tackle inequality in India"},{"date": "2014-09-14T16:43:49Z", "country": "india", "content": "Name: India SellarsBusiness: Maids to MeasureJob title: Creative directorWebsite: www.maidstomeasure.comI set up Maids to Measure three years ago and I brought my sister India on board to become the creative director of the company. India created the first collection to launch the company in 2012 and has since collaborated with well known brands to build Maids to Measure to become the only specialist British bridesmaid brand. She has led Maids to Measure to win best newcomer at the Wedding Industry Awards in 2012 and this year\u2019s best Bridesmaid retailer, competing against big high street names. With no fashion or retail experience, just a creative flair, India has taken Maids to Measure from strength to strength and we are now the go to place for British bridesmaids. Sinclair Sellars is director of Maids to Measure", "tags": ["Small Business Showcase"], "title": "Rising Star 2014: India Sellars"},{"date": "2014-09-14T16:43:49Z", "country": "india", "content": "Name: India SellarsBusiness: Maids to MeasureJob title: Creative directorWebsite: www.maidstomeasure.comI set up Maids to Measure three years ago and I brought my sister India on board to become the creative director of the company. India created the first collection to launch the company in 2012 and has since collaborated with well known brands to build Maids to Measure to become the only specialist British bridesmaid brand. She has led Maids to Measure to win best newcomer at the Wedding Industry Awards in 2012 and this year\u2019s best Bridesmaid retailer, competing against big high street names. With no fashion or retail experience, just a creative flair, India has taken Maids to Measure from strength to strength and we are now the go to place for British bridesmaids. Sinclair Sellars is director of Maids to Measure", "tags": ["Small Business Showcase"], "title": "Rising Star 2014: India Sellars"},{"date": "2014-09-22T17:02:35Z", "country": "india", "content": "Greenpeace has accused the Indian government of a systematic crackdown on its activities after one of the charity\u2019s staff was turned back by immigration officials at Delhi airport and returned to the UK despite having a valid visa.The decision to refuse British national Ben Hargreaves entry to attend a meeting follows a ban on donations from Greenpeace International being transferred into Greenpeace India\u2019s account. The ban was introduced by prime minister Narendra Modi\u2019s rightwing government in June.The ban, which the Delhi high court ordered the government to lift this month, was imposed after a leaked Indian intelligence report described the organisation as \u201ca threat to national economic security\u201d.Samit Aich, executive director of Greenpeace India, told the Guardian: \u201cWe have seen for the last couple of months a definite move to scuttle Greenpeace\u2019s work in India by various ways and means. Ben had a valid visa and was unceremoniously told to go back [to England]. This is clearly a symptom of a systematic clampdown of on Greenpeace in India.\u201dGreenpeace claims the leaked intelligence report, which cited the charity\u2019s protests against nuclear and coal plants and accused it of causing an annual reduction in India\u2019s GDP of 2-3%, contained fabricated information, and says its funds were frozen without any explanation or evidence of wrongdoing.Aich said the Indian government was unhappy that Greenpeace had stepped up its campaign to protect community rights and ancient forests in the Mahan region of Madhya Pradesh, where it says plans for a coal mine proposed by a UK-registered company, Essar, threaten people\u2019s livelihoods and biodiversity.Aich said the charity\u2019s campaigning was validated by a ruling by India\u2019s supreme court last month that all coal mining licences awarded since 1993, including the one covering Mahan, were illegal, amid claims of corruption, mismanagement and underpricing.Hargreaves, who had previously travelled to India without any problems, was given no reason for his deportation, and Greenpeace said other British nationals from the charity had been detained and interrogated at Indian airports.The charity\u2019s UK executive director, John Sauven, has written to the foreign secretary, Philip Hammond, requesting an explanation for the treatment of Hargreaves and other British nationals from the Indian minister for external affairs.\u201cWe fail to understand why Ben wasn\u2019t allowed to return to India when he has all the appropriate permits,\u201d said Sauven. \u201cThis is not the first time that our staff have been subjected to unfair treatment as they tried to enter the country \u2013 this is unacceptable. We are a legitimate part of global civil society. It\u2019s very disturbing that the authorities in the world\u2019s largest democracy should act in such an arbitrary way.\u201dThe Indian high commission in London did not respond to the Guardian\u2019s request for a comment.", "tags": ["Greenpeace", "Activism", "Environment", "India", "World news", "UK news"], "title": "Greenpeace worker refused entry to India"},{"date": "2014-09-14T16:43:49Z", "country": "india", "content": "Name: India SellarsBusiness: Maids to MeasureJob title: Creative directorWebsite: www.maidstomeasure.comI set up Maids to Measure three years ago and I brought my sister India on board to become the creative director of the company. India created the first collection to launch the company in 2012 and has since collaborated with well known brands to build Maids to Measure to become the only specialist British bridesmaid brand. She has led Maids to Measure to win best newcomer at the Wedding Industry Awards in 2012 and this year\u2019s best Bridesmaid retailer, competing against big high street names. With no fashion or retail experience, just a creative flair, India has taken Maids to Measure from strength to strength and we are now the go to place for British bridesmaids. Sinclair Sellars is director of Maids to Measure", "tags": ["Small Business Showcase"], "title": "Rising Star 2014: India Sellars"},{"date": "2014-09-22T17:02:35Z", "country": "india", "content": "Greenpeace has accused the Indian government of a systematic crackdown on its activities after one of the charity\u2019s staff was turned back by immigration officials at Delhi airport and returned to the UK despite having a valid visa.The decision to refuse British national Ben Hargreaves entry to attend a meeting follows a ban on donations from Greenpeace International being transferred into Greenpeace India\u2019s account. The ban was introduced by prime minister Narendra Modi\u2019s rightwing government in June.The ban, which the Delhi high court ordered the government to lift this month, was imposed after a leaked Indian intelligence report described the organisation as \u201ca threat to national economic security\u201d.Samit Aich, executive director of Greenpeace India, told the Guardian: \u201cWe have seen for the last couple of months a definite move to scuttle Greenpeace\u2019s work in India by various ways and means. Ben had a valid visa and was unceremoniously told to go back [to England]. This is clearly a symptom of a systematic clampdown of on Greenpeace in India.\u201dGreenpeace claims the leaked intelligence report, which cited the charity\u2019s protests against nuclear and coal plants and accused it of causing an annual reduction in India\u2019s GDP of 2-3%, contained fabricated information, and says its funds were frozen without any explanation or evidence of wrongdoing.Aich said the Indian government was unhappy that Greenpeace had stepped up its campaign to protect community rights and ancient forests in the Mahan region of Madhya Pradesh, where it says plans for a coal mine proposed by a UK-registered company, Essar, threaten people\u2019s livelihoods and biodiversity.Aich said the charity\u2019s campaigning was validated by a ruling by India\u2019s supreme court last month that all coal mining licences awarded since 1993, including the one covering Mahan, were illegal, amid claims of corruption, mismanagement and underpricing.Hargreaves, who had previously travelled to India without any problems, was given no reason for his deportation, and Greenpeace said other British nationals from the charity had been detained and interrogated at Indian airports.The charity\u2019s UK executive director, John Sauven, has written to the foreign secretary, Philip Hammond, requesting an explanation for the treatment of Hargreaves and other British nationals from the Indian minister for external affairs.\u201cWe fail to understand why Ben wasn\u2019t allowed to return to India when he has all the appropriate permits,\u201d said Sauven. \u201cThis is not the first time that our staff have been subjected to unfair treatment as they tried to enter the country \u2013 this is unacceptable. We are a legitimate part of global civil society. It\u2019s very disturbing that the authorities in the world\u2019s largest democracy should act in such an arbitrary way.\u201dThe Indian high commission in London did not respond to the Guardian\u2019s request for a comment.", "tags": ["Greenpeace", "Activism", "Environment", "India", "World news", "UK news"], "title": "Greenpeace worker refused entry to India"},{"date": "2014-07-31T15:23:33Z", "country": "india", "content": "The battle over testing of genetically modified crops in India took a new turn this week with the Bharatiya Janata party-led government putting field trials on hold. The move reverses the previous Congress party-led government\u2019s push for GM trials, which had resulted in approvals in the past few months for rice, maize, wheat and chickpea crops. Trials are the first step towards sale and plantation of GM seeds in India.The BJP, which came to power in May, took a stand against GM crop trials in its election manifesto.But this week\u2019s announcement came after the Swadeshi Jagran Manch (Forum for National Awakening) and the Bharatiya Kisan Sangh (Indian Farmers Association), two grassroots groups affiliated to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), a Hindu nationalist outfit that supports the BJP, met environment minister Prakash Javdekar on Tuesday to reiterate their opposition to holding GM trials.The groups expressed concern about the potentially unknown effects on health and biodiversity as well as about the longer-term prospect of putting food production in the hands of a few multinational companies. \u201cIf a country\u2019s food production becomes overly dependent on seeds and other inputs from a handful of such companies, will it not compromise its food security?\u201d said the Manch in a press statement. The biotech industry responded with dismay to the news. Stocks of Monsanto India slipped. An association of leading biotech companies in India criticised the government\u2019s decision as \u201canti-science, anti-domestic research recommendations which seem motivated to kill the biotechnology sector in India.\u201d Field trials are necessary, proponents say, to test the efficacy of seeds in real-world conditions.But the introduction of GM crops has always been controversial in India. Opposition ranges across political lines, and many states, worried about contamination, refuse to allow field trials within their borders. Bt cotton is the only commercially available GM crop in India.New crop trials have been effectively on hold since late 2012, after a supreme court-appointed expert panel recommended suspension for 10 years until regulatory and monitoring systems could be strengthened. The court, the country\u2019s highest, is hearing a public interest litigation against GM trials that is likely to be decided this year.A parliamentary committee on agriculture has also supported a moratorium on trials. In March, the committee said \u201cfurther research and development on transgenics in agricultural crops should be done only in strict containment and field trials should not be undertaken till the government puts in place all regulatory, monitoring, oversight, surveillance and other structures.\u201dEven the previous government was internally at odds on the issue. Former prime minister, Manmohan Singh, saw biotechnology as key to food security and warned against succumbing to \u201cunscientific prejudices\u201d. But two of Singh\u2019s own environment ministers stalled GM trials. It was only when Veerappa Moily took over as environment minister early this year that the process of approving the one-acre field trials restarted.Since March the genetic engineering approval committee \u2013 a statutory body under the environment ministry \u2013 has cleared the bulk of the 60 trial applications that had been pending for a year. Most of the applications were for new crop trials. These approvals are now on hold until the new government decides what to do. Elected on a mandate for economic growth, Narendra Modi\u2019s administration is not expected to be particularly friendly to environmental groups. But on the issue of GM crops environmentalists appear to be on the same page as the nationalist groups that support the BJP.This unlikely convergence seems particularly ironic in the light of a recent report by an Indian intelligence agency that names anti-GM groups such as Greenpeace India and Gene Campaign as one of the many \u201canti-national\u201d foreign-funded NGOs hampering India\u2019s economic progress.", "tags": ["India", "World news", "Environment", "GM", "Farming", "Science", "Agriculture", "Food", "Food security", "Narendra Modi"], "title": "India puts GM crop trials on hold"},{"date": "2014-11-22T06:00:14Z", "country": "india", "content": "For a country of 1.25 billion people, India has never been a major stop on the international live music circuit. Sure, there\u2019s been a smattering of heavy metal gigs and a one-off Beyonc\u00e9 show in Mumbai in 2007, while Sting can always be counted on to throw in a sitar concert between yoga retreats, but low ticket prices and high production costs mean that big tours by the likes of U2 and Rihanna have traditionally bypassed the country.That has left a vacuum that\u2019s now being filled, perhaps inevitably, by mass-market EDM. Next month, Major Lazer will tour India for the first time. They\u2019re followed in January by Steve Aoki, who\u2019s returning to the country for his third tour. \u201cIndia is full of culture and life and we\u2019re excited to explore the country,\u201d says Diplo. \u201cMajor Lazer is all about doing things that other people don\u2019t do.\u201d And with those words, we move one step closer to a world where it\u2019s impossible to ever be out of earshot of a ludicrous drop.However, far from being a case of insidious cultural imperialism, Delhi-based DJ and producer Su Real argues that EDM artists coming to the country are helping to inspire a new local scene. \u201cMany of us, when we were growing up, could never have imagined pursuing a career in electronic music in India,\u201d he says. \u201cI think it\u2019s an important reflection of a new India of sab kuch milega \u2013 \u2018you can have everything\u2019. We don\u2019t have to go abroad to see these artists, we can have it all here.\u201dSu Real believes there\u2019s something specific about EDM that attracts Indian fans in a way that other western genres don\u2019t. \u201cEDM overcomes language and cultural barriers and attacks the base human sensibilities,\u201d he says. \u201cThe energy, volume, lights, build-ups and drops add up to a physical experience.\u201dMany in the Indian music industry attribute the rise of EDM to the success of Goa\u2019s Sunburn festival, which has brought the likes of Carl Cox, Paul Van Dyk and Armin Van Buuren to the country since it started in 2007. Goa, of course, has a long association with dance music, dating back to the trance scene in the late 80s. Sunburn festival boss Shailendra Singh is adamant that EDM will ultimately prove to be a force for good for the Indian music scene. \u201cFor now, Indian DJs are very seriously influenced by the content and performances of the successful international DJs,\u201d he admits, \u201cbut just wait for the day when that one Indian DJ creates a global impact. I think the world will freak out.\u201dRather than making the world sound increasingly homogenous, Singh hopes that by flying in international acts, they\u2019re encouraging a cross-pollination of traditional Indian music with club culture \u2013 with tasty results. \u201cWouldn\u2019t that be really cool?\u201d says Singh. \u201cWho doesn\u2019t like chicken tikka masala?\u201d", "tags": ["Dance music", "Music", "Culture", "Electronic music", "Diplo", "India"], "title": "EDM mania hits India"},{"date": "2014-11-22T06:00:14Z", "country": "india", "content": "For a country of 1.25 billion people, India has never been a major stop on the international live music circuit. Sure, there\u2019s been a smattering of heavy metal gigs and a one-off Beyonc\u00e9 show in Mumbai in 2007, while Sting can always be counted on to throw in a sitar concert between yoga retreats, but low ticket prices and high production costs mean that big tours by the likes of U2 and Rihanna have traditionally bypassed the country.That has left a vacuum that\u2019s now being filled, perhaps inevitably, by mass-market EDM. Next month, Major Lazer will tour India for the first time. They\u2019re followed in January by Steve Aoki, who\u2019s returning to the country for his third tour. \u201cIndia is full of culture and life and we\u2019re excited to explore the country,\u201d says Diplo. \u201cMajor Lazer is all about doing things that other people don\u2019t do.\u201d And with those words, we move one step closer to a world where it\u2019s impossible to ever be out of earshot of a ludicrous drop.However, far from being a case of insidious cultural imperialism, Delhi-based DJ and producer Su Real argues that EDM artists coming to the country are helping to inspire a new local scene. \u201cMany of us, when we were growing up, could never have imagined pursuing a career in electronic music in India,\u201d he says. \u201cI think it\u2019s an important reflection of a new India of sab kuch milega \u2013 \u2018you can have everything\u2019. We don\u2019t have to go abroad to see these artists, we can have it all here.\u201dSu Real believes there\u2019s something specific about EDM that attracts Indian fans in a way that other western genres don\u2019t. \u201cEDM overcomes language and cultural barriers and attacks the base human sensibilities,\u201d he says. \u201cThe energy, volume, lights, build-ups and drops add up to a physical experience.\u201dMany in the Indian music industry attribute the rise of EDM to the success of Goa\u2019s Sunburn festival, which has brought the likes of Carl Cox, Paul Van Dyk and Armin Van Buuren to the country since it started in 2007. Goa, of course, has a long association with dance music, dating back to the trance scene in the late 80s. Sunburn festival boss Shailendra Singh is adamant that EDM will ultimately prove to be a force for good for the Indian music scene. \u201cFor now, Indian DJs are very seriously influenced by the content and performances of the successful international DJs,\u201d he admits, \u201cbut just wait for the day when that one Indian DJ creates a global impact. I think the world will freak out.\u201dRather than making the world sound increasingly homogenous, Singh hopes that by flying in international acts, they\u2019re encouraging a cross-pollination of traditional Indian music with club culture \u2013 with tasty results. \u201cWouldn\u2019t that be really cool?\u201d says Singh. \u201cWho doesn\u2019t like chicken tikka masala?\u201d", "tags": ["Dance music", "Music", "Culture", "Electronic music", "Diplo", "India"], "title": "EDM mania hits India"},{"date": "2014-12-16T14:00:20Z", "country": "india", "content": "After six hours of uphill driving, along Chang La, one of the highest roads in the world, Lina and I feel the air around Pangong Lake. A fortress of mountains hold us gently beside the lake. Here we can feel the chill of the water, see gem-like pebbles and gaze at a sky that showers cold winds mixed with a soothing sunshine.We are far away from the town of Leh, Ladakh\u2019s provincial capital in northern India. Our backs still ache from the unpaved road\u2019s zigzag rhythm; our plans of finding the perfect camera angle and taking a different shot of the lake vanish for a moment. The changing hues of the lake \u2013 now blue, now grey, now turquoise \u2013 mesmerise us. Lina picks up a shiny pebble from the lakeside, tosses it once or twice in the air and looks at the Himalayan ranges in the distance before throwing the pebble towards them. After a few seconds, the pebble creates a hardly audible plop in the water. Then a tiny flock of brown-headed gulls alights just where Lina and I stand. No trees nor resting place; did the birds appear from nowhere or fly out of the mountain\u2019s recesses? They hop from place to place, keeping a safe distance from us. We sit on the dyke, watching the gulls, the lake and the mountains. We feel as free as the gulls who call Pangong home.The day slides into afternoon. The sun grows more powerful, lending the water more beauty and depth of colour. The blue on one side and turquoise on the other are equally captivating. Lina fixes her eyes on the eastern shore where the lake meets China.A stone\u2019s throw away from the banks of Pangong is the Indian army\u2019s station, but here we don\u2019t have any sense of animosity. In the waters of Pangong lie reflected eternal peace. It would be hard to think of political machinations here in this Pangong paradise.Ammo and Prakash, our Ladakhi guides, are curious when they witness our joy. As we drove, Ammo did the talking and we listened, only asking for occasional clarification. At the lake\u2019s edge, we forgot everything, and everyone. Is this how some travellers get lost and strange travelogues are penned?Ammo tries to interrupt, telling us of a popular Bollywood film shot at Pangong. She is grateful to the filmmakers as they brought more tourists to Ladakh and to this 65km stretch of lake, more than half of which lies in China. \u201cWhether it be in India or China, the lake knows no difference, nor the mountains change their imposing stature and magnitude\u201d: Ammo\u2019s words seem unexpected for a tourist guide. We realise the Ladakhis\u2019 pride in their region, their land in the mountains and their close proximity to one another in the scattered villages, in the valleys and on the hills.Prakash waved and stopped on our way here to greet people each time we came across Ladakhis. Do Prakash and Ammo know all of them? Do all Ladakhis know each other? What a contrast to our chained world of inhibition!Lina and I turn towards the snow on the mountains. We see its white glare on the azure water. The sun seems to fade from view. The clouds from China accumulate. We watch and dine. The Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["India"], "title": "Letter from India: dizzy heights"},{"date": "2014-11-22T06:00:14Z", "country": "india", "content": "For a country of 1.25 billion people, India has never been a major stop on the international live music circuit. Sure, there\u2019s been a smattering of heavy metal gigs and a one-off Beyonc\u00e9 show in Mumbai in 2007, while Sting can always be counted on to throw in a sitar concert between yoga retreats, but low ticket prices and high production costs mean that big tours by the likes of U2 and Rihanna have traditionally bypassed the country.That has left a vacuum that\u2019s now being filled, perhaps inevitably, by mass-market EDM. Next month, Major Lazer will tour India for the first time. They\u2019re followed in January by Steve Aoki, who\u2019s returning to the country for his third tour. \u201cIndia is full of culture and life and we\u2019re excited to explore the country,\u201d says Diplo. \u201cMajor Lazer is all about doing things that other people don\u2019t do.\u201d And with those words, we move one step closer to a world where it\u2019s impossible to ever be out of earshot of a ludicrous drop.However, far from being a case of insidious cultural imperialism, Delhi-based DJ and producer Su Real argues that EDM artists coming to the country are helping to inspire a new local scene. \u201cMany of us, when we were growing up, could never have imagined pursuing a career in electronic music in India,\u201d he says. \u201cI think it\u2019s an important reflection of a new India of sab kuch milega \u2013 \u2018you can have everything\u2019. We don\u2019t have to go abroad to see these artists, we can have it all here.\u201dSu Real believes there\u2019s something specific about EDM that attracts Indian fans in a way that other western genres don\u2019t. \u201cEDM overcomes language and cultural barriers and attacks the base human sensibilities,\u201d he says. \u201cThe energy, volume, lights, build-ups and drops add up to a physical experience.\u201dMany in the Indian music industry attribute the rise of EDM to the success of Goa\u2019s Sunburn festival, which has brought the likes of Carl Cox, Paul Van Dyk and Armin Van Buuren to the country since it started in 2007. Goa, of course, has a long association with dance music, dating back to the trance scene in the late 80s. Sunburn festival boss Shailendra Singh is adamant that EDM will ultimately prove to be a force for good for the Indian music scene. \u201cFor now, Indian DJs are very seriously influenced by the content and performances of the successful international DJs,\u201d he admits, \u201cbut just wait for the day when that one Indian DJ creates a global impact. I think the world will freak out.\u201dRather than making the world sound increasingly homogenous, Singh hopes that by flying in international acts, they\u2019re encouraging a cross-pollination of traditional Indian music with club culture \u2013 with tasty results. \u201cWouldn\u2019t that be really cool?\u201d says Singh. \u201cWho doesn\u2019t like chicken tikka masala?\u201d", "tags": ["Dance music", "Music", "Culture", "Electronic music", "Diplo", "India"], "title": "EDM mania hits India"},{"date": "2014-12-16T14:00:20Z", "country": "india", "content": "After six hours of uphill driving, along Chang La, one of the highest roads in the world, Lina and I feel the air around Pangong Lake. A fortress of mountains hold us gently beside the lake. Here we can feel the chill of the water, see gem-like pebbles and gaze at a sky that showers cold winds mixed with a soothing sunshine.We are far away from the town of Leh, Ladakh\u2019s provincial capital in northern India. Our backs still ache from the unpaved road\u2019s zigzag rhythm; our plans of finding the perfect camera angle and taking a different shot of the lake vanish for a moment. The changing hues of the lake \u2013 now blue, now grey, now turquoise \u2013 mesmerise us. Lina picks up a shiny pebble from the lakeside, tosses it once or twice in the air and looks at the Himalayan ranges in the distance before throwing the pebble towards them. After a few seconds, the pebble creates a hardly audible plop in the water. Then a tiny flock of brown-headed gulls alights just where Lina and I stand. No trees nor resting place; did the birds appear from nowhere or fly out of the mountain\u2019s recesses? They hop from place to place, keeping a safe distance from us. We sit on the dyke, watching the gulls, the lake and the mountains. We feel as free as the gulls who call Pangong home.The day slides into afternoon. The sun grows more powerful, lending the water more beauty and depth of colour. The blue on one side and turquoise on the other are equally captivating. Lina fixes her eyes on the eastern shore where the lake meets China.A stone\u2019s throw away from the banks of Pangong is the Indian army\u2019s station, but here we don\u2019t have any sense of animosity. In the waters of Pangong lie reflected eternal peace. It would be hard to think of political machinations here in this Pangong paradise.Ammo and Prakash, our Ladakhi guides, are curious when they witness our joy. As we drove, Ammo did the talking and we listened, only asking for occasional clarification. At the lake\u2019s edge, we forgot everything, and everyone. Is this how some travellers get lost and strange travelogues are penned?Ammo tries to interrupt, telling us of a popular Bollywood film shot at Pangong. She is grateful to the filmmakers as they brought more tourists to Ladakh and to this 65km stretch of lake, more than half of which lies in China. \u201cWhether it be in India or China, the lake knows no difference, nor the mountains change their imposing stature and magnitude\u201d: Ammo\u2019s words seem unexpected for a tourist guide. We realise the Ladakhis\u2019 pride in their region, their land in the mountains and their close proximity to one another in the scattered villages, in the valleys and on the hills.Prakash waved and stopped on our way here to greet people each time we came across Ladakhis. Do Prakash and Ammo know all of them? Do all Ladakhis know each other? What a contrast to our chained world of inhibition!Lina and I turn towards the snow on the mountains. We see its white glare on the azure water. The sun seems to fade from view. The clouds from China accumulate. We watch and dine. The Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["India"], "title": "Letter from India: dizzy heights"},{"date": "2014-10-16T14:44:52Z", "country": "india", "content": "Who? Bournemouth-born artist William Doyle creates strange, structurally indefinable songs that are entirely self-produced. His first semi-public venture into music was in the post-Bluetones indie band Doyle & the Fourfathers, in which he honed his skills as a performer. After the band disintegrated, he started making music on his computer, music so impressive that John Doran of the Quietus started a label just so it could put out Doyle\u2019s early songs. His ideas for the album were born out of \u201ca long year of isolation\u201d on the edges of north London in his late teens, and it was his debut as a coming-of-age record that, rather than blossoming with the buoyancy of youth, revitalises the boredom and monotony of a lonely life the end of the Central line. As Tim Jonze pointed out in a review, he may well be the first artist in the history of music to have used a Foals pun as an album title. The album: Total Strife ForeverPrevious releases to date: 2013 \u2013 Hostel EPWhat we said: \u201cPerhaps surprisingly, Doyle is at his most affecting when he\u2019s vocal-free: songs such as Glitter Recession counterpoint their melodic beauty with a subtle, unsettling undertow. On Heaven How Long, however \u2013 which features a euphoric chorus that dissolves into a driving motorik rhythm \u2013 Doyle proves he\u2019s capable of pulling off both his tricks at the same time.\u201dWhat he said: \u201cIt was pressure that made this record what it is. Social, financial, all of that. And I didn\u2019t want to do what was expected of me: to make a \u2018song record\u2019 after I\u2019d been a songwriter for the last three years.\u201dNotable Mercury-friendly accolades: John Doran said he would have \u201cremortgaged my soul to get this music out there\u201d. Hopefully that kind of combative human connection should \u2013 as opposed to a big marketing push and extensive tours ahead of the awards \u2013 be enough to convince the judges he deserves the win. Brian Eno, the inventor of ambience, has also been known to turn up at Doye\u2019s gigs, probably because the album applies an otherworldly ambience to Krautrock, skewed electronics, techno and classical.Likelihood to win: All of the right components are there, but they were arguably there last year too, when similarly sombre solo electronic artist James Blake took the prize. Hopefully those comparisons won\u2019t work against him. At the moment, Ladbroke\u2019s has him pegged at 8/1 to win. Stream album:", "tags": ["Mercury prize", "Music", "Awards and prizes", "Culture", "Experimental music", "Electronic music", "Indie", "Pop and rock"], "title": "Mercury nominees 2014: East India Youth"},{"date": "2014-11-22T06:00:14Z", "country": "india", "content": "For a country of 1.25 billion people, India has never been a major stop on the international live music circuit. Sure, there\u2019s been a smattering of heavy metal gigs and a one-off Beyonc\u00e9 show in Mumbai in 2007, while Sting can always be counted on to throw in a sitar concert between yoga retreats, but low ticket prices and high production costs mean that big tours by the likes of U2 and Rihanna have traditionally bypassed the country.That has left a vacuum that\u2019s now being filled, perhaps inevitably, by mass-market EDM. Next month, Major Lazer will tour India for the first time. They\u2019re followed in January by Steve Aoki, who\u2019s returning to the country for his third tour. \u201cIndia is full of culture and life and we\u2019re excited to explore the country,\u201d says Diplo. \u201cMajor Lazer is all about doing things that other people don\u2019t do.\u201d And with those words, we move one step closer to a world where it\u2019s impossible to ever be out of earshot of a ludicrous drop.However, far from being a case of insidious cultural imperialism, Delhi-based DJ and producer Su Real argues that EDM artists coming to the country are helping to inspire a new local scene. \u201cMany of us, when we were growing up, could never have imagined pursuing a career in electronic music in India,\u201d he says. \u201cI think it\u2019s an important reflection of a new India of sab kuch milega \u2013 \u2018you can have everything\u2019. We don\u2019t have to go abroad to see these artists, we can have it all here.\u201dSu Real believes there\u2019s something specific about EDM that attracts Indian fans in a way that other western genres don\u2019t. \u201cEDM overcomes language and cultural barriers and attacks the base human sensibilities,\u201d he says. \u201cThe energy, volume, lights, build-ups and drops add up to a physical experience.\u201dMany in the Indian music industry attribute the rise of EDM to the success of Goa\u2019s Sunburn festival, which has brought the likes of Carl Cox, Paul Van Dyk and Armin Van Buuren to the country since it started in 2007. Goa, of course, has a long association with dance music, dating back to the trance scene in the late 80s. Sunburn festival boss Shailendra Singh is adamant that EDM will ultimately prove to be a force for good for the Indian music scene. \u201cFor now, Indian DJs are very seriously influenced by the content and performances of the successful international DJs,\u201d he admits, \u201cbut just wait for the day when that one Indian DJ creates a global impact. I think the world will freak out.\u201dRather than making the world sound increasingly homogenous, Singh hopes that by flying in international acts, they\u2019re encouraging a cross-pollination of traditional Indian music with club culture \u2013 with tasty results. \u201cWouldn\u2019t that be really cool?\u201d says Singh. \u201cWho doesn\u2019t like chicken tikka masala?\u201d", "tags": ["Dance music", "Music", "Culture", "Electronic music", "Diplo", "India"], "title": "EDM mania hits India"},{"date": "2014-12-16T14:00:20Z", "country": "india", "content": "After six hours of uphill driving, along Chang La, one of the highest roads in the world, Lina and I feel the air around Pangong Lake. A fortress of mountains hold us gently beside the lake. Here we can feel the chill of the water, see gem-like pebbles and gaze at a sky that showers cold winds mixed with a soothing sunshine.We are far away from the town of Leh, Ladakh\u2019s provincial capital in northern India. Our backs still ache from the unpaved road\u2019s zigzag rhythm; our plans of finding the perfect camera angle and taking a different shot of the lake vanish for a moment. The changing hues of the lake \u2013 now blue, now grey, now turquoise \u2013 mesmerise us. Lina picks up a shiny pebble from the lakeside, tosses it once or twice in the air and looks at the Himalayan ranges in the distance before throwing the pebble towards them. After a few seconds, the pebble creates a hardly audible plop in the water. Then a tiny flock of brown-headed gulls alights just where Lina and I stand. No trees nor resting place; did the birds appear from nowhere or fly out of the mountain\u2019s recesses? They hop from place to place, keeping a safe distance from us. We sit on the dyke, watching the gulls, the lake and the mountains. We feel as free as the gulls who call Pangong home.The day slides into afternoon. The sun grows more powerful, lending the water more beauty and depth of colour. The blue on one side and turquoise on the other are equally captivating. Lina fixes her eyes on the eastern shore where the lake meets China.A stone\u2019s throw away from the banks of Pangong is the Indian army\u2019s station, but here we don\u2019t have any sense of animosity. In the waters of Pangong lie reflected eternal peace. It would be hard to think of political machinations here in this Pangong paradise.Ammo and Prakash, our Ladakhi guides, are curious when they witness our joy. As we drove, Ammo did the talking and we listened, only asking for occasional clarification. At the lake\u2019s edge, we forgot everything, and everyone. Is this how some travellers get lost and strange travelogues are penned?Ammo tries to interrupt, telling us of a popular Bollywood film shot at Pangong. She is grateful to the filmmakers as they brought more tourists to Ladakh and to this 65km stretch of lake, more than half of which lies in China. \u201cWhether it be in India or China, the lake knows no difference, nor the mountains change their imposing stature and magnitude\u201d: Ammo\u2019s words seem unexpected for a tourist guide. We realise the Ladakhis\u2019 pride in their region, their land in the mountains and their close proximity to one another in the scattered villages, in the valleys and on the hills.Prakash waved and stopped on our way here to greet people each time we came across Ladakhis. Do Prakash and Ammo know all of them? Do all Ladakhis know each other? What a contrast to our chained world of inhibition!Lina and I turn towards the snow on the mountains. We see its white glare on the azure water. The sun seems to fade from view. The clouds from China accumulate. We watch and dine. The Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["India"], "title": "Letter from India: dizzy heights"},{"date": "2014-10-16T14:44:52Z", "country": "india", "content": "Who? Bournemouth-born artist William Doyle creates strange, structurally indefinable songs that are entirely self-produced. His first semi-public venture into music was in the post-Bluetones indie band Doyle & the Fourfathers, in which he honed his skills as a performer. After the band disintegrated, he started making music on his computer, music so impressive that John Doran of the Quietus started a label just so it could put out Doyle\u2019s early songs. His ideas for the album were born out of \u201ca long year of isolation\u201d on the edges of north London in his late teens, and it was his debut as a coming-of-age record that, rather than blossoming with the buoyancy of youth, revitalises the boredom and monotony of a lonely life the end of the Central line. As Tim Jonze pointed out in a review, he may well be the first artist in the history of music to have used a Foals pun as an album title. The album: Total Strife ForeverPrevious releases to date: 2013 \u2013 Hostel EPWhat we said: \u201cPerhaps surprisingly, Doyle is at his most affecting when he\u2019s vocal-free: songs such as Glitter Recession counterpoint their melodic beauty with a subtle, unsettling undertow. On Heaven How Long, however \u2013 which features a euphoric chorus that dissolves into a driving motorik rhythm \u2013 Doyle proves he\u2019s capable of pulling off both his tricks at the same time.\u201dWhat he said: \u201cIt was pressure that made this record what it is. Social, financial, all of that. And I didn\u2019t want to do what was expected of me: to make a \u2018song record\u2019 after I\u2019d been a songwriter for the last three years.\u201dNotable Mercury-friendly accolades: John Doran said he would have \u201cremortgaged my soul to get this music out there\u201d. Hopefully that kind of combative human connection should \u2013 as opposed to a big marketing push and extensive tours ahead of the awards \u2013 be enough to convince the judges he deserves the win. Brian Eno, the inventor of ambience, has also been known to turn up at Doye\u2019s gigs, probably because the album applies an otherworldly ambience to Krautrock, skewed electronics, techno and classical.Likelihood to win: All of the right components are there, but they were arguably there last year too, when similarly sombre solo electronic artist James Blake took the prize. Hopefully those comparisons won\u2019t work against him. At the moment, Ladbroke\u2019s has him pegged at 8/1 to win. Stream album:", "tags": ["Mercury prize", "Music", "Awards and prizes", "Culture", "Experimental music", "Electronic music", "Indie", "Pop and rock"], "title": "Mercury nominees 2014: East India Youth"},{"date": "2014-12-29T08:11:45Z", "country": "india", "content": "\n\n8.11am GMT\n08:11\n\nThe day in briefWell that was another absorbing day of cricket in this 3rd Test at the MCG. The scene is now set for an equally-compelling finish with Australia in a commanding position - 326 runs ahead - but not entirely certain that this talent-laden Indian batting line-up will fold on day five.Australia started the day by mopping up the Indian tail in clinical style before Chris Rogers (69) nudged, nurdled and occasionally even blasted (yes, you read that right) his way to his fourth consecutive Test half-century and provided the ballast as Australia went about setting a challenging total for the tourists. The Indians pegged them back with a steady flow of wickets though. Shane Watson (17) and Joe Burns (9) fell to loose strokes and Steve Smith (12) to a leg-side trap that had given the Indians no joy previously.Of the Indian bolwers, Yadav (2-73 from 14) was expensive and took wickets from shockers but stuck at his task, Ishant (2-49 from 19) was both probing an occasionally menacing and Ashwin (2-56 off 22) never less than a threat. If India\u2019s batting form of this summer and the feisty spirit in which this series has been played holds true, we\u2019re in for a far more absorbing final day tomorrow than the raw numbers might suggest. Make sure you join us at 10am local time for all the live action. \n\n8.03am GMT\n08:03\n\n75th over - Australia 261-7 (Marsh 62, Harris 8)With all that faffing of the last over, the world\u2019s oldest-looking 24-year-old, Mohammad Shami, will bowl the last over of the day. He starts with some rubbish down the leg side, which suits Ryan Harris just fine in his efforts to chaperone Marsh through to stumps. Harris even sneaks two through mid wicket when Shami fluffs his attempt at an in-swinging yorker. And that is that. Stumps is called on day four and the Australians lead by 326 with a 10am (local time) start tomorrow due to the time lost to weather today. \n\n7.57am GMT\n07:57\n\n74th over - Australia 259-7 (Marsh 62, Harris 6)There\u2019s just six minutes left now until the end of the day\u2019s play but if India are in a hurry to let their bowlers get the maximum opportunity for a dismissal, they\u2019ve got a funny way of showing it. They loll about in the field and at one point the ball - in the process of being passed back towards Yadav - is tossed over Kohli\u2019s head and half-way out to the boundary. Good to see CA offering a $20 adult charge to see the denouement of this Test match tomorrow. #goodvalue\n\n7.53am GMT\n07:53\n\n73rd over - Australia 257-7 (Marsh 62, Harris 5)Ryan Harris isn\u2019t afraid of a bit of hard work and digs in admirably as Ashwin zeroes in around his middle and leg stumps with a series of curling, drifting offies. His defence looks impregnable but it\u2019s effective for now. The maiden also probably comes as a relief to the bowler too. Australia leads by 322. Updated\nat 7.53am GMT\n\n\n7.48am GMT\n07:48\n\n72nd over - Australia 257-7 (Marsh 62, Harris 5)Yadav produces a maiden to Marsh. Six balls, no runs. Fancy that. KFC Trivia: What will Brayshaw call cricket balls in this commentary stint? A) Cherries B) Nuts C) Tomatoes D) Mogwais #ChannelNineNonsense\n\n7.43am GMT\n07:43\n\n71st over - Australia 257-7 (Marsh 62, Harris 5)The other thing that this recent onslaught has achieved for Australia, aside from the obvious, is that it\u2019s blunted Ashwin\u2019s influence as he\u2019s reactively tended towards a flatter and faster trajectory. That\u2019s a big win for the home side. Updated\nat 7.44am GMT\n\n\n7.41am GMT\n07:41\n\n70th over - Australia 255-7 (Marsh 61, Harris 4)Marsh is in charge now. He gets the strike back from Harris, digs out a yorker and then pummels Shami for a pair of wonderful boundaries through cover. He struggled to the 40s and made batting look like learning Sanskrit, but now I\u2019m convincing myself he\u2019s on for a ton. Can Harris hang around? Is there enough time? Australia leads by 320.\n\n7.37am GMT\n07:37\n\n69th over - Australia 246-7 (Marsh 53, Harris 3)Whoooof!! Out of nowhere, Shaun Marsh explodes into action by advancing down the track to Ashwin and thumping the spinner over long-on for six to bring up a determined half-century. India need to be careful here because Harris is no slouch, as his first-innings 74 would attest. I remember watching him play as a genuine all-rounder for the Redbacks in the late 90s. What a time that was. I wasn\u2019t even receding yet. @rustyjacko When one leaves a game then returns, one's perspective is different from those who have watched it. Aus look MILES ahead to me!But I\u2019ve seen things, Gary. I\u2019ve seen things. \n\n7.32am GMT\n07:32\n\n68th over - Australia 236-7 (Marsh 44, Harris 2)Rahane thinks he has another catch at leg gully from Harris but Kumar Dharmasena makes another judicious call, rightly identifying that it had come off the batsman\u2019s hip. The Australian lead edges past 300 with 2 to Harris. Robert Wilson is on the mark, as usual. \u201cThere\u2019s been so much sub-Beckett gloom about the evils of IPL and the death-throes of tests in the last couple of years. With this game setting up beautifully for the last day, that lovely NZ win and the W.Indies currently showing some wherewithal, may I just say that the death throes seem quite vigorous and entertaining?\u201dYes, you certainly can.\n\n7.29am GMT\n07:29\n\nShami strikes with a a slower-ball bouncer, tying Johnson up and drawing a false stroke that bobbles up in the air to Rahane at mid-wicket. The Australian lead now sits at 299 and there is a lot of feeling out in the middle. Johnson appears to have words to Kohli and perhaps Ishant on the way off. No surprises there, though probably not a great idea on the part of the tourists if the Gabba is anything to go by. \n\n7.25am GMT\n07:25\n\n67th over - Australia 234-6 (Marsh 44, Johnson 15)Ashwin and Dhoni have conspired to place two men in the deep, straight, to Johnson. That almost brings about a wicket when the Aussie moves down the track and biffs another flat, fearsome drive but it skids through to Murali Vijay from a single bounce, never rising greatly above head height.\n\n7.22am GMT\n07:22\n\n66th over - Australia 233-6 (Marsh 44, Johnson 14)Johnson might have been unshackled by that boundary off Ashwin because he unleashes a thunderous blow off Shami here too, a cross-bat mow that almost kills both the bowler and Umpire Kumar Dharmasena. That breeds some trepidation among the fielding side as well and there\u2019s a fumble in the field next up to gift him a single. I haven\u2019t mentioned it yet, but how magnificent has it been to have Bill Lawry back for what is now a kind of bittersweet Christmas present to cricket lovers?I'll never get tired of Bill Lawry saying 'he hit it as clean as a whistle' #AUSvIND\n\n7.17am GMT\n07:17\n\n65th over - Australia 228-6 (Marsh 44, Johnson 9)Mitchell Johnson had waited a shade under half an hour to to move beyond his score of four, but he doubles that in fine and muscular style by slog-sweeping Ashwin over mid-wicket for a boundary. The Ausralian lead creeps up to 293 with 15 overs still to play today. \n\n7.14am GMT\n07:14\n\n64th over - Australia 223-6 (Marsh 44, Johnson 4)Did I mention that today\u2019s play has been stretched by an hour due to the delays earlier? It will conclude at 7pm local time, in just under 50 minutes. Out in the middle, Ishant thinks he\u2019s got Marsh trapped in front not playing a shot, but replays confirm what was not immediately obvious to the naked eye - that the ball had pitched outside leg. ", "tags": ["Cricket", "Australia cricket team", "India cricket team", "Australia sport"], "title": "Australia v India: third Test, day four - as it happened"},{"date": "2014-11-22T06:00:14Z", "country": "india", "content": "For a country of 1.25 billion people, India has never been a major stop on the international live music circuit. Sure, there\u2019s been a smattering of heavy metal gigs and a one-off Beyonc\u00e9 show in Mumbai in 2007, while Sting can always be counted on to throw in a sitar concert between yoga retreats, but low ticket prices and high production costs mean that big tours by the likes of U2 and Rihanna have traditionally bypassed the country.That has left a vacuum that\u2019s now being filled, perhaps inevitably, by mass-market EDM. Next month, Major Lazer will tour India for the first time. They\u2019re followed in January by Steve Aoki, who\u2019s returning to the country for his third tour. \u201cIndia is full of culture and life and we\u2019re excited to explore the country,\u201d says Diplo. \u201cMajor Lazer is all about doing things that other people don\u2019t do.\u201d And with those words, we move one step closer to a world where it\u2019s impossible to ever be out of earshot of a ludicrous drop.However, far from being a case of insidious cultural imperialism, Delhi-based DJ and producer Su Real argues that EDM artists coming to the country are helping to inspire a new local scene. \u201cMany of us, when we were growing up, could never have imagined pursuing a career in electronic music in India,\u201d he says. \u201cI think it\u2019s an important reflection of a new India of sab kuch milega \u2013 \u2018you can have everything\u2019. We don\u2019t have to go abroad to see these artists, we can have it all here.\u201dSu Real believes there\u2019s something specific about EDM that attracts Indian fans in a way that other western genres don\u2019t. \u201cEDM overcomes language and cultural barriers and attacks the base human sensibilities,\u201d he says. \u201cThe energy, volume, lights, build-ups and drops add up to a physical experience.\u201dMany in the Indian music industry attribute the rise of EDM to the success of Goa\u2019s Sunburn festival, which has brought the likes of Carl Cox, Paul Van Dyk and Armin Van Buuren to the country since it started in 2007. Goa, of course, has a long association with dance music, dating back to the trance scene in the late 80s. Sunburn festival boss Shailendra Singh is adamant that EDM will ultimately prove to be a force for good for the Indian music scene. \u201cFor now, Indian DJs are very seriously influenced by the content and performances of the successful international DJs,\u201d he admits, \u201cbut just wait for the day when that one Indian DJ creates a global impact. I think the world will freak out.\u201dRather than making the world sound increasingly homogenous, Singh hopes that by flying in international acts, they\u2019re encouraging a cross-pollination of traditional Indian music with club culture \u2013 with tasty results. \u201cWouldn\u2019t that be really cool?\u201d says Singh. \u201cWho doesn\u2019t like chicken tikka masala?\u201d", "tags": ["Dance music", "Music", "Culture", "Electronic music", "Diplo", "India"], "title": "EDM mania hits India"},{"date": "2014-12-16T14:00:20Z", "country": "india", "content": "After six hours of uphill driving, along Chang La, one of the highest roads in the world, Lina and I feel the air around Pangong Lake. A fortress of mountains hold us gently beside the lake. Here we can feel the chill of the water, see gem-like pebbles and gaze at a sky that showers cold winds mixed with a soothing sunshine.We are far away from the town of Leh, Ladakh\u2019s provincial capital in northern India. Our backs still ache from the unpaved road\u2019s zigzag rhythm; our plans of finding the perfect camera angle and taking a different shot of the lake vanish for a moment. The changing hues of the lake \u2013 now blue, now grey, now turquoise \u2013 mesmerise us. Lina picks up a shiny pebble from the lakeside, tosses it once or twice in the air and looks at the Himalayan ranges in the distance before throwing the pebble towards them. After a few seconds, the pebble creates a hardly audible plop in the water. Then a tiny flock of brown-headed gulls alights just where Lina and I stand. No trees nor resting place; did the birds appear from nowhere or fly out of the mountain\u2019s recesses? They hop from place to place, keeping a safe distance from us. We sit on the dyke, watching the gulls, the lake and the mountains. We feel as free as the gulls who call Pangong home.The day slides into afternoon. The sun grows more powerful, lending the water more beauty and depth of colour. The blue on one side and turquoise on the other are equally captivating. Lina fixes her eyes on the eastern shore where the lake meets China.A stone\u2019s throw away from the banks of Pangong is the Indian army\u2019s station, but here we don\u2019t have any sense of animosity. In the waters of Pangong lie reflected eternal peace. It would be hard to think of political machinations here in this Pangong paradise.Ammo and Prakash, our Ladakhi guides, are curious when they witness our joy. As we drove, Ammo did the talking and we listened, only asking for occasional clarification. At the lake\u2019s edge, we forgot everything, and everyone. Is this how some travellers get lost and strange travelogues are penned?Ammo tries to interrupt, telling us of a popular Bollywood film shot at Pangong. She is grateful to the filmmakers as they brought more tourists to Ladakh and to this 65km stretch of lake, more than half of which lies in China. \u201cWhether it be in India or China, the lake knows no difference, nor the mountains change their imposing stature and magnitude\u201d: Ammo\u2019s words seem unexpected for a tourist guide. We realise the Ladakhis\u2019 pride in their region, their land in the mountains and their close proximity to one another in the scattered villages, in the valleys and on the hills.Prakash waved and stopped on our way here to greet people each time we came across Ladakhis. Do Prakash and Ammo know all of them? Do all Ladakhis know each other? What a contrast to our chained world of inhibition!Lina and I turn towards the snow on the mountains. We see its white glare on the azure water. The sun seems to fade from view. The clouds from China accumulate. We watch and dine. The Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["India"], "title": "Letter from India: dizzy heights"},{"date": "2014-10-16T14:44:52Z", "country": "india", "content": "Who? Bournemouth-born artist William Doyle creates strange, structurally indefinable songs that are entirely self-produced. His first semi-public venture into music was in the post-Bluetones indie band Doyle & the Fourfathers, in which he honed his skills as a performer. After the band disintegrated, he started making music on his computer, music so impressive that John Doran of the Quietus started a label just so it could put out Doyle\u2019s early songs. His ideas for the album were born out of \u201ca long year of isolation\u201d on the edges of north London in his late teens, and it was his debut as a coming-of-age record that, rather than blossoming with the buoyancy of youth, revitalises the boredom and monotony of a lonely life the end of the Central line. As Tim Jonze pointed out in a review, he may well be the first artist in the history of music to have used a Foals pun as an album title. The album: Total Strife ForeverPrevious releases to date: 2013 \u2013 Hostel EPWhat we said: \u201cPerhaps surprisingly, Doyle is at his most affecting when he\u2019s vocal-free: songs such as Glitter Recession counterpoint their melodic beauty with a subtle, unsettling undertow. On Heaven How Long, however \u2013 which features a euphoric chorus that dissolves into a driving motorik rhythm \u2013 Doyle proves he\u2019s capable of pulling off both his tricks at the same time.\u201dWhat he said: \u201cIt was pressure that made this record what it is. Social, financial, all of that. And I didn\u2019t want to do what was expected of me: to make a \u2018song record\u2019 after I\u2019d been a songwriter for the last three years.\u201dNotable Mercury-friendly accolades: John Doran said he would have \u201cremortgaged my soul to get this music out there\u201d. Hopefully that kind of combative human connection should \u2013 as opposed to a big marketing push and extensive tours ahead of the awards \u2013 be enough to convince the judges he deserves the win. Brian Eno, the inventor of ambience, has also been known to turn up at Doye\u2019s gigs, probably because the album applies an otherworldly ambience to Krautrock, skewed electronics, techno and classical.Likelihood to win: All of the right components are there, but they were arguably there last year too, when similarly sombre solo electronic artist James Blake took the prize. Hopefully those comparisons won\u2019t work against him. At the moment, Ladbroke\u2019s has him pegged at 8/1 to win. Stream album:", "tags": ["Mercury prize", "Music", "Awards and prizes", "Culture", "Experimental music", "Electronic music", "Indie", "Pop and rock"], "title": "Mercury nominees 2014: East India Youth"},{"date": "2014-12-29T08:11:45Z", "country": "india", "content": "\n\n8.11am GMT\n08:11\n\nThe day in briefWell that was another absorbing day of cricket in this 3rd Test at the MCG. The scene is now set for an equally-compelling finish with Australia in a commanding position - 326 runs ahead - but not entirely certain that this talent-laden Indian batting line-up will fold on day five.Australia started the day by mopping up the Indian tail in clinical style before Chris Rogers (69) nudged, nurdled and occasionally even blasted (yes, you read that right) his way to his fourth consecutive Test half-century and provided the ballast as Australia went about setting a challenging total for the tourists. The Indians pegged them back with a steady flow of wickets though. Shane Watson (17) and Joe Burns (9) fell to loose strokes and Steve Smith (12) to a leg-side trap that had given the Indians no joy previously.Of the Indian bolwers, Yadav (2-73 from 14) was expensive and took wickets from shockers but stuck at his task, Ishant (2-49 from 19) was both probing an occasionally menacing and Ashwin (2-56 off 22) never less than a threat. If India\u2019s batting form of this summer and the feisty spirit in which this series has been played holds true, we\u2019re in for a far more absorbing final day tomorrow than the raw numbers might suggest. Make sure you join us at 10am local time for all the live action. \n\n8.03am GMT\n08:03\n\n75th over - Australia 261-7 (Marsh 62, Harris 8)With all that faffing of the last over, the world\u2019s oldest-looking 24-year-old, Mohammad Shami, will bowl the last over of the day. He starts with some rubbish down the leg side, which suits Ryan Harris just fine in his efforts to chaperone Marsh through to stumps. Harris even sneaks two through mid wicket when Shami fluffs his attempt at an in-swinging yorker. And that is that. Stumps is called on day four and the Australians lead by 326 with a 10am (local time) start tomorrow due to the time lost to weather today. \n\n7.57am GMT\n07:57\n\n74th over - Australia 259-7 (Marsh 62, Harris 6)There\u2019s just six minutes left now until the end of the day\u2019s play but if India are in a hurry to let their bowlers get the maximum opportunity for a dismissal, they\u2019ve got a funny way of showing it. They loll about in the field and at one point the ball - in the process of being passed back towards Yadav - is tossed over Kohli\u2019s head and half-way out to the boundary. Good to see CA offering a $20 adult charge to see the denouement of this Test match tomorrow. #goodvalue\n\n7.53am GMT\n07:53\n\n73rd over - Australia 257-7 (Marsh 62, Harris 5)Ryan Harris isn\u2019t afraid of a bit of hard work and digs in admirably as Ashwin zeroes in around his middle and leg stumps with a series of curling, drifting offies. His defence looks impregnable but it\u2019s effective for now. The maiden also probably comes as a relief to the bowler too. Australia leads by 322. Updated\nat 7.53am GMT\n\n\n7.48am GMT\n07:48\n\n72nd over - Australia 257-7 (Marsh 62, Harris 5)Yadav produces a maiden to Marsh. Six balls, no runs. Fancy that. KFC Trivia: What will Brayshaw call cricket balls in this commentary stint? A) Cherries B) Nuts C) Tomatoes D) Mogwais #ChannelNineNonsense\n\n7.43am GMT\n07:43\n\n71st over - Australia 257-7 (Marsh 62, Harris 5)The other thing that this recent onslaught has achieved for Australia, aside from the obvious, is that it\u2019s blunted Ashwin\u2019s influence as he\u2019s reactively tended towards a flatter and faster trajectory. That\u2019s a big win for the home side. Updated\nat 7.44am GMT\n\n\n7.41am GMT\n07:41\n\n70th over - Australia 255-7 (Marsh 61, Harris 4)Marsh is in charge now. He gets the strike back from Harris, digs out a yorker and then pummels Shami for a pair of wonderful boundaries through cover. He struggled to the 40s and made batting look like learning Sanskrit, but now I\u2019m convincing myself he\u2019s on for a ton. Can Harris hang around? Is there enough time? Australia leads by 320.\n\n7.37am GMT\n07:37\n\n69th over - Australia 246-7 (Marsh 53, Harris 3)Whoooof!! Out of nowhere, Shaun Marsh explodes into action by advancing down the track to Ashwin and thumping the spinner over long-on for six to bring up a determined half-century. India need to be careful here because Harris is no slouch, as his first-innings 74 would attest. I remember watching him play as a genuine all-rounder for the Redbacks in the late 90s. What a time that was. I wasn\u2019t even receding yet. @rustyjacko When one leaves a game then returns, one's perspective is different from those who have watched it. Aus look MILES ahead to me!But I\u2019ve seen things, Gary. I\u2019ve seen things. \n\n7.32am GMT\n07:32\n\n68th over - Australia 236-7 (Marsh 44, Harris 2)Rahane thinks he has another catch at leg gully from Harris but Kumar Dharmasena makes another judicious call, rightly identifying that it had come off the batsman\u2019s hip. The Australian lead edges past 300 with 2 to Harris. Robert Wilson is on the mark, as usual. \u201cThere\u2019s been so much sub-Beckett gloom about the evils of IPL and the death-throes of tests in the last couple of years. With this game setting up beautifully for the last day, that lovely NZ win and the W.Indies currently showing some wherewithal, may I just say that the death throes seem quite vigorous and entertaining?\u201dYes, you certainly can.\n\n7.29am GMT\n07:29\n\nShami strikes with a a slower-ball bouncer, tying Johnson up and drawing a false stroke that bobbles up in the air to Rahane at mid-wicket. The Australian lead now sits at 299 and there is a lot of feeling out in the middle. Johnson appears to have words to Kohli and perhaps Ishant on the way off. No surprises there, though probably not a great idea on the part of the tourists if the Gabba is anything to go by. \n\n7.25am GMT\n07:25\n\n67th over - Australia 234-6 (Marsh 44, Johnson 15)Ashwin and Dhoni have conspired to place two men in the deep, straight, to Johnson. That almost brings about a wicket when the Aussie moves down the track and biffs another flat, fearsome drive but it skids through to Murali Vijay from a single bounce, never rising greatly above head height.\n\n7.22am GMT\n07:22\n\n66th over - Australia 233-6 (Marsh 44, Johnson 14)Johnson might have been unshackled by that boundary off Ashwin because he unleashes a thunderous blow off Shami here too, a cross-bat mow that almost kills both the bowler and Umpire Kumar Dharmasena. That breeds some trepidation among the fielding side as well and there\u2019s a fumble in the field next up to gift him a single. I haven\u2019t mentioned it yet, but how magnificent has it been to have Bill Lawry back for what is now a kind of bittersweet Christmas present to cricket lovers?I'll never get tired of Bill Lawry saying 'he hit it as clean as a whistle' #AUSvIND\n\n7.17am GMT\n07:17\n\n65th over - Australia 228-6 (Marsh 44, Johnson 9)Mitchell Johnson had waited a shade under half an hour to to move beyond his score of four, but he doubles that in fine and muscular style by slog-sweeping Ashwin over mid-wicket for a boundary. The Ausralian lead creeps up to 293 with 15 overs still to play today. \n\n7.14am GMT\n07:14\n\n64th over - Australia 223-6 (Marsh 44, Johnson 4)Did I mention that today\u2019s play has been stretched by an hour due to the delays earlier? It will conclude at 7pm local time, in just under 50 minutes. Out in the middle, Ishant thinks he\u2019s got Marsh trapped in front not playing a shot, but replays confirm what was not immediately obvious to the naked eye - that the ball had pitched outside leg. ", "tags": ["Cricket", "Australia cricket team", "India cricket team", "Australia sport"], "title": "Australia v India: third Test, day four - as it happened"},{"date": "2014-12-29T13:02:25Z", "country": "india", "content": "I have never met Rina, but an account of her struggle (pdf) to come to terms with her mental illness is moving.\u201cMy name is Rina \u2026 I have been to hell and back, and I am proud to be able to stand here tall and say that I survived and I am continuing to survive my illness and society\u2019s stereotypes of me. I am also a woman, mother, wife and an individual with schizophrenia.\u201dRina has the right combination of medication and a support structure to address her illness. But there are thousands of women in India who are not as fortunate, as a recent Human Rights Watch (HRW) report, Treated worse than animals, revealed.The HRW team visited 24 mental health hospitals and state-funded residential care facilities and interviewed 200 women and girls with psychosocial or mental health disabilities, their families and caretakers, as well as mental health professionals, service providers, government officials and police in six cities. The 104-page study is a difficult read. It exposes involuntary admissions and arbitrary detentions of women in these facilities; overcrowding and a lack of hygiene; inadequate access to healthcare; forced treatment, including electroconvulsive therapy, as well as physical, verbal and sexual violence.Take for example, the Yerawada mental hospital in Pune, Maharashtra. It is the biggest government-run hospital in Asia and houses 1,864 patients but has only 25 functional toilets. \u201cOpen defecation is the norm,\u201d Dr Vilas Bhailume, the hospital\u2019s superintendent, told the researchers. \u201cThe condition of mental hospitals is the same all over the country. This is because the ethos of these hospitals is wrong \u2026 they are run not as mental hospitals but as prisons,\u201d says Ratnaboli Ray, the director of Anjali, a Kolkata-based mental health rights organisation that interviewed Rina.She says these institutions suffer because of the bad quality of staff and their attitude. \u201cEven the trained staff lack empathy. Their attitude is \u2018we know best\u2019,\u201d Ray explains. \u201cUnfortunately, the training programmes reinforce this attitude.\u201d Kirti Sharma, researcher in the disability rights division of HRW, agrees. \u201cIt was not difficult to go into these institutions to investigate because their staff did not think that there was anything wrong in the way they are tackling the inmates.\u201dHRW researchers were told that staff do not receive training on how to deal with patients. Access to mental healthcare is limited in India. There are only 43 government mental health hospitals to provide services for the estimated more than 70 million people living with psychosocial disabilities. For every 1 million people, there are three psychiatrists, with psychologists even more scarce. Only 25% of hospitals, clinics and mental health professionals are in rural areas, where 70% of the population live.Both Ray and Sharma say that, for the situation to improve, the government must move from an institution-based approach to a community-based one, to address the needs of people with mental illness. They say India needs smaller, local clinics that people can access when symptoms first arise.In 1982, the government launched a national mental health programme to improve services by upgrading facilities and staff training, and providing care at the community level. But it has not been implemented well. \u201cI visited five centres in Delhi,\u201d says Sharma. \u201cEach is supposed to be staffed by one psychiatrist, one psychologist and a social worker. I found the same psychiatrist in all five centres, and in some there were no psychologists or social workers. There are not enough people working in the field, partly because the stigma of these disabilities extends to the professionals who assist them.\u201d In October, India unveiled its first mental health policy, which aims to reduce the treatment gap by providing universal access to mental healthcare through increased funding and human resources. \u201cThe policy is progressive but it does not move away from large institutions totally,\u201d says Sharma, adding that legal reform is needed to ensure that \u201clike everybody else, people with disabilities have legal capacity \u2013 the right to make their own decisions \u2013 and receive the necessary support to do so\u201d.Along with all these, there is one important factor that needs to change. Society must stop treating people with mental illness as outcasts. This, Sharma says, is a mammoth challenge. ", "tags": ["Global development", "Mental health", "Health", "India", "Women", "World news"], "title": "India faces massive challenge to get mental healthcare right | KumKum Dasgupta"},{"date": "2015-01-29T11:56:45Z", "country": "india", "content": "Last autumn, I left my desk in the Futures Entrepreneurship Centre at the University of Plymouth to spend a packed and fascinating week in India, as a guest of the British Council. I first travelled to Bhubaneswar, the capital of Odisha (formerly Orissa) and one of India\u2019s fastest growing cities, to meet with academic colleagues and students and to look at various social enterprise projects and programmes. Run by universities, these projects cater to hundreds, sometimes thousands of people. One such micro-enterprise programme provides training and enterprise space for potentially hundreds of slum dwellers and their families.  Related: Affordable housing challenges give way to inspiring social enterprise solutions  The project is called \u201cUrban Micro Business Centre\u201d and is a joint venture between the Government of Odisha, the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation, an employment training agency and Centurion University. It was in India that I was introduced to the concept of \u201clivelihood\u201d as a driver for social business programmes \u2013 so obvious, but so infrequently articulated in the UK.  We often express the social value of social enterprises without referring to the fact that they create decent and sustainable jobs for the people engaged in them, and are not part of the low wage, low value economy.I also visited a vocational training space for young people of tribal origin that offers employer-related training, guaranteeing work for their successful learners, and most impressively, a school for tribal children with 22,000 pupils \u2013 all residential! In Plymouth, we value our partnership with our local authority, our partner colleges and the local social enterprise network. We like to think we touch many people with our provision.My experience in Bhubaneswar gives us some perspective on the size of programmes needed in India \u2013 and indeed at a UK level. There is a certain humility when we review the size of our programmes and our investment in them. Social enterprise development programmes in the UK are disparate and uncoordinated, lacking coherence and diminishing potential impact. There are lessons to be learned about the importance of doing and making provision at scale. Scale aside, there were many similarities. As is the case in the UK, social enterprises in India form as a response to a real social need and are inspired by the passion and innovation of a few key people.  Related: The Social Stock Exchange: unlocking capital for social and environmental good I encountered real enthusiasm for social entrepreneurship from business school and institute of management students in Bhubaneswar. Here in Plymouth, interest in social enterprise is widespread amongst students too and they can access opportunities to learn about the subject across all our course delivery \u2013 not solely in the Faculty of Business. Indeed, we offer a wide range of learning opportunities for staff and students and our social enterprise community, through workshops, conferences, informal learning events, competitions, and the provision of incubation space.At the end of the week, I participated in a UK \u2013 India university dialogue on social enterprise that was hosted and co-ordinated by the British Council in New Dehli. As one of the UK delegates I was privileged to meet the Indian university staff and social entrepreneurs who attended. Whilst keen to explain and promote our ideas and activities here at Plymouth, I was also fascinated to hear about the breadth of expertise in Indian universities around the development of entrepreneurs in general, and social entrepreneurs in particular. We academic promoters found ourselves with much in common, and were keen to develop further links between institutions.Whilst most social entrepreneurship learning in India seems to be in business school postgraduate programmes, we also heard about university-run incubation programmes and facilities of various kinds. The Indian delegates repeatedly mentioned the role that social enterprise can play in providing a livelihood for their graduates, whilst UK contributors focussed on student experience, research and curriculum development and external partnerships.  Related: The World Bank and British Council back social enterprise in Morocco We also had really useful contributions from three Delhi-based social enterprises, demonstrating the passion, commitment and innovation that characterises our sector, whether in the UK or India. Particularly impressive was a women-only cab firm called Sakha Consulting Wings Pvt. Ltd. They set up to provide safe transport for women and children, and also to give livelihoods to women by training them as cab drivers. These drivers are able to become the chief breadwinner in their households, due to regular, fairly-paid work. Another social enterprise that participated in the dialogue was Green the Gap, which manufactures stylish laptop bags and other goods from recycled car tyres and similar materials \u2013 fantastic from both a consumer and ecological perspective. Their success served as a good reminder that many social enterprises flourish despite receiving very limited outside support.Moreover, these social entrepreneurs were insistent that we academics should consult them about the shape and type of any future provision of social enterprise teaching \u2013 a great reminder about keeping it real and relevant to our various audiences that is apparently as true in India as in the UK. So what did I bring home along with the purchases from the emporiums and markets of Delhi? First, Plymouth is in the first stages of developing an alliance with Centurion University in Bhubaneswar, which hopefully will become a lasting legacy of the British Council dialogue. Second, the British Council is planning to build on this first dialogue to create a sustained UK-India project \u2013 and Plymouth will hope to be part of it. Third, the journey was a reminder to centre our efforts to support new and existing social entrepreneurs within and outside our student population.Finally, it left me with a sense of belonging to a truly global movement.Judith Reynolds is the director, Social Enterprise University Enterprise Network, University of Plymouth. Until taking up her current post, Judith ran a very successful social enterprise support agency, enabling hundreds of social enterprises to develop across the south west of England. In this capacity she was responsible for the development and management of a revolving loan fund for social enterprises across Devon which ran for over five years. She was also, with other delivery partners, responsible for the design, development and management of a number of specialist business support programmes working across a range of funding streams including ESF and ERDF, European Community Funds, Single Regeneration Rounds 1-5 etc. In her current role with Plymouth University, she is responsible for the development and management of social enterprise working across the campus with staff and students, and forming partnerships with key players in the region to devise and deliver a range of social enterprise support. This has resulted in the formation of a delivery cluster with a current in year budget of over \u00a3100,000 for local support delivery, and the awarding by the Cabinet office of a social incubator project with a value of almost \u00a31m.Content on this page is paid for and provided by the British Council, sponsor of the International hub", "tags": ["Social Enterprise British Council Partner zone"], "title": "A social enterprise promoter\u2019s passage to India"},{"date": "2015-01-29T11:56:45Z", "country": "india", "content": "Last autumn, I left my desk in the Futures Entrepreneurship Centre at the University of Plymouth to spend a packed and fascinating week in India, as a guest of the British Council. I first travelled to Bhubaneswar, the capital of Odisha (formerly Orissa) and one of India\u2019s fastest growing cities, to meet with academic colleagues and students and to look at various social enterprise projects and programmes. Run by universities, these projects cater to hundreds, sometimes thousands of people. One such micro-enterprise programme provides training and enterprise space for potentially hundreds of slum dwellers and their families.  Related: Affordable housing challenges give way to inspiring social enterprise solutions  The project is called \u201cUrban Micro Business Centre\u201d and is a joint venture between the Government of Odisha, the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation, an employment training agency and Centurion University. It was in India that I was introduced to the concept of \u201clivelihood\u201d as a driver for social business programmes \u2013 so obvious, but so infrequently articulated in the UK.  We often express the social value of social enterprises without referring to the fact that they create decent and sustainable jobs for the people engaged in them, and are not part of the low wage, low value economy.I also visited a vocational training space for young people of tribal origin that offers employer-related training, guaranteeing work for their successful learners, and most impressively, a school for tribal children with 22,000 pupils \u2013 all residential! In Plymouth, we value our partnership with our local authority, our partner colleges and the local social enterprise network. We like to think we touch many people with our provision.My experience in Bhubaneswar gives us some perspective on the size of programmes needed in India \u2013 and indeed at a UK level. There is a certain humility when we review the size of our programmes and our investment in them. Social enterprise development programmes in the UK are disparate and uncoordinated, lacking coherence and diminishing potential impact. There are lessons to be learned about the importance of doing and making provision at scale. Scale aside, there were many similarities. As is the case in the UK, social enterprises in India form as a response to a real social need and are inspired by the passion and innovation of a few key people.  Related: The Social Stock Exchange: unlocking capital for social and environmental good I encountered real enthusiasm for social entrepreneurship from business school and institute of management students in Bhubaneswar. Here in Plymouth, interest in social enterprise is widespread amongst students too and they can access opportunities to learn about the subject across all our course delivery \u2013 not solely in the Faculty of Business. Indeed, we offer a wide range of learning opportunities for staff and students and our social enterprise community, through workshops, conferences, informal learning events, competitions, and the provision of incubation space.At the end of the week, I participated in a UK \u2013 India university dialogue on social enterprise that was hosted and co-ordinated by the British Council in New Dehli. As one of the UK delegates I was privileged to meet the Indian university staff and social entrepreneurs who attended. Whilst keen to explain and promote our ideas and activities here at Plymouth, I was also fascinated to hear about the breadth of expertise in Indian universities around the development of entrepreneurs in general, and social entrepreneurs in particular. We academic promoters found ourselves with much in common, and were keen to develop further links between institutions.Whilst most social entrepreneurship learning in India seems to be in business school postgraduate programmes, we also heard about university-run incubation programmes and facilities of various kinds. The Indian delegates repeatedly mentioned the role that social enterprise can play in providing a livelihood for their graduates, whilst UK contributors focussed on student experience, research and curriculum development and external partnerships.  Related: The World Bank and British Council back social enterprise in Morocco We also had really useful contributions from three Delhi-based social enterprises, demonstrating the passion, commitment and innovation that characterises our sector, whether in the UK or India. Particularly impressive was a women-only cab firm called Sakha Consulting Wings Pvt. Ltd. They set up to provide safe transport for women and children, and also to give livelihoods to women by training them as cab drivers. These drivers are able to become the chief breadwinner in their households, due to regular, fairly-paid work. Another social enterprise that participated in the dialogue was Green the Gap, which manufactures stylish laptop bags and other goods from recycled car tyres and similar materials \u2013 fantastic from both a consumer and ecological perspective. Their success served as a good reminder that many social enterprises flourish despite receiving very limited outside support.Moreover, these social entrepreneurs were insistent that we academics should consult them about the shape and type of any future provision of social enterprise teaching \u2013 a great reminder about keeping it real and relevant to our various audiences that is apparently as true in India as in the UK. So what did I bring home along with the purchases from the emporiums and markets of Delhi? First, Plymouth is in the first stages of developing an alliance with Centurion University in Bhubaneswar, which hopefully will become a lasting legacy of the British Council dialogue. Second, the British Council is planning to build on this first dialogue to create a sustained UK-India project \u2013 and Plymouth will hope to be part of it. Third, the journey was a reminder to centre our efforts to support new and existing social entrepreneurs within and outside our student population.Finally, it left me with a sense of belonging to a truly global movement.Judith Reynolds is the director, Social Enterprise University Enterprise Network, University of Plymouth. Until taking up her current post, Judith ran a very successful social enterprise support agency, enabling hundreds of social enterprises to develop across the south west of England. In this capacity she was responsible for the development and management of a revolving loan fund for social enterprises across Devon which ran for over five years. She was also, with other delivery partners, responsible for the design, development and management of a number of specialist business support programmes working across a range of funding streams including ESF and ERDF, European Community Funds, Single Regeneration Rounds 1-5 etc. In her current role with Plymouth University, she is responsible for the development and management of social enterprise working across the campus with staff and students, and forming partnerships with key players in the region to devise and deliver a range of social enterprise support. This has resulted in the formation of a delivery cluster with a current in year budget of over \u00a3100,000 for local support delivery, and the awarding by the Cabinet office of a social incubator project with a value of almost \u00a31m.Content on this page is paid for and provided by the British Council, sponsor of the International hub", "tags": ["Social Enterprise British Council Partner zone"], "title": "A social enterprise promoter\u2019s passage to India"},{"date": "2015-01-06T14:00:02Z", "country": "india", "content": "Over the next five years, India faces one of the world\u2019s biggest challenges \u2013 ending financial \u201cuntouchability\u201d for 100 million families, bringing clean, affordable and reliable supplies of water and energy to all of its 1.3 billion inhabitants, and investing in the enterprises that will provide livelihoods for an extra 10 million jobseekers each year.The demand for extra capital to meet these pressing needs is immense. Take renewable energy, which unites the issues of access and sustainability. India\u2019s new government has introduced a five-fold increase in the country\u2019s solar target to 100GW of installed capacity by 2022. This will require unprecedented investment, perhaps as much as an additional $100bn (\u00a364bn).Even though solar is increasingly competitive compared with power from conventional sources and offers attractive long-term cash flows with zero fuel risk, obstacles remain within the financial system. India\u2019s banks, for example, face regulatory exposure limits curbing the amount that they can lend to specific sectors. This means funding for clean energy can be capped because these limits have already been met for the power sector as a whole \u2013 leading to proposals to set a separate exposure limit for renewables.Alongside this capital deployment initiative is growing awareness of the need to establish a level playing field of sustainability standards in the financial world. Naina Lal Kidwai, country head for HSBC India, says: \u201cFor too long, a view has been allowed to take root in India that sustainability and finance are at odds; that taking account of environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors raises costs, reduces returns and impedes development.\u201dActual practice in India suggests the reverse. The Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI) has found, for example, that loans to energy efficient companies have a much better loan recovery rate than the norm. At infrastructure company IDFC the business case for sustainable finance is based on reduced risk, increased market share and greater access to international finance.This mix of necessity and opportunity provides an ideal moment to identify levers to scale up sustainable finance. To do this, the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) and the UNEP Inquiry have formed an advisory committee of leading financiers, policymakers and civil society representatives to generate practical policy options.Harnessing the power of financial innovation is key and this includes mobilising the country\u2019s debt and equity capital markets. Demand for green bonds among the world\u2019s institutional investors is soaring \u2013 and India\u2019s pipeline of investment projects in sustainable agriculture, clean energy, efficient buildings, mass transit, smart cities, clean water and waste provides the foundations for a thriving green bonds market. On India\u2019s equity markets, the new Infrastructure Investment Trust model offers another vehicle for investors to put money into sustainable infrastructure.Incentives will also be needed to overcome residual investment risks, but subsidies are unlikely to be the basis for sustainable finance in India. Key instruments could include guarantee and credit enhancement mechanisms from national and international development banks to draw in private capital \u2013 to underpin payments to energy service companies (ESCOs), for example, unlocking the crucial efficiency market in India.Tax breaks could also be used in a focused way to encourage investment flows, already used for the country\u2019s de facto green bond leader, the Indian Renewable Energy Development Authority (IREDA).Work is underway to develop a \u201cMade in India\u201d set of guidelines for the integration of ESG factors across banking. Refinements in financial regulation could also be necessary, particularly to correct for market failures (such as a lack of long-term capital for infrastructure). As well as looking at sector exposure levels, this could also involve examining how sustainability factors could impact upon core measures, such as the priority sector lending requirements in banking.Sell-side analysts and buy-side investors also need benchmarks to evaluate the quality of ESG information flowing from the new Business Responsibility reports from the top 100 companies on the country\u2019s stock exchanges.All of this will require new skills and capabilities across the financial system to grow an army of financial intermediaries who can provide the best advice and products to their clients, rich and poor, to navigate the sustainable finance landscape.There is growing momentum behind actions to link financial policy and sustainability around the world, whether it\u2019s Brazil\u2019s new requirements on environmental and social risk for its banking sector, or the Bank of England\u2019s examination of potential \u201cstranded assets\u201d linked to climate change.It is essential that this drive is linked to the broader expansion of financial inclusion so that India\u2019s under-served population get the financial services they deserve to meet their aspirations for energy, food, housing and sanitation.Jayant Sinha, India\u2019s minister of state for finance, said: \u201cIt\u2019s clear that India has to be a leader, and do it in a global way in partnership with others.\u201d There is no time to lose in building a sustainable financial system in India.Nick Robins is co-director of the UNEP Inquiry into the Design of a Sustainable Financial SystemRead more stories like this:The finance hub is funded by EY. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled \u2018brought to you by\u2019. Find out more here.Join the community of sustainability professionals and experts. Become a GSB member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox ", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "India", "Business"], "title": "Investing in India requires sustainable, reliable finance"},{"date": "2015-01-29T11:56:45Z", "country": "india", "content": "Last autumn, I left my desk in the Futures Entrepreneurship Centre at the University of Plymouth to spend a packed and fascinating week in India, as a guest of the British Council. I first travelled to Bhubaneswar, the capital of Odisha (formerly Orissa) and one of India\u2019s fastest growing cities, to meet with academic colleagues and students and to look at various social enterprise projects and programmes. Run by universities, these projects cater to hundreds, sometimes thousands of people. One such micro-enterprise programme provides training and enterprise space for potentially hundreds of slum dwellers and their families.  Related: Affordable housing challenges give way to inspiring social enterprise solutions  The project is called \u201cUrban Micro Business Centre\u201d and is a joint venture between the Government of Odisha, the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation, an employment training agency and Centurion University. It was in India that I was introduced to the concept of \u201clivelihood\u201d as a driver for social business programmes \u2013 so obvious, but so infrequently articulated in the UK.  We often express the social value of social enterprises without referring to the fact that they create decent and sustainable jobs for the people engaged in them, and are not part of the low wage, low value economy.I also visited a vocational training space for young people of tribal origin that offers employer-related training, guaranteeing work for their successful learners, and most impressively, a school for tribal children with 22,000 pupils \u2013 all residential! In Plymouth, we value our partnership with our local authority, our partner colleges and the local social enterprise network. We like to think we touch many people with our provision.My experience in Bhubaneswar gives us some perspective on the size of programmes needed in India \u2013 and indeed at a UK level. There is a certain humility when we review the size of our programmes and our investment in them. Social enterprise development programmes in the UK are disparate and uncoordinated, lacking coherence and diminishing potential impact. There are lessons to be learned about the importance of doing and making provision at scale. Scale aside, there were many similarities. As is the case in the UK, social enterprises in India form as a response to a real social need and are inspired by the passion and innovation of a few key people.  Related: The Social Stock Exchange: unlocking capital for social and environmental good I encountered real enthusiasm for social entrepreneurship from business school and institute of management students in Bhubaneswar. Here in Plymouth, interest in social enterprise is widespread amongst students too and they can access opportunities to learn about the subject across all our course delivery \u2013 not solely in the Faculty of Business. Indeed, we offer a wide range of learning opportunities for staff and students and our social enterprise community, through workshops, conferences, informal learning events, competitions, and the provision of incubation space.At the end of the week, I participated in a UK \u2013 India university dialogue on social enterprise that was hosted and co-ordinated by the British Council in New Dehli. As one of the UK delegates I was privileged to meet the Indian university staff and social entrepreneurs who attended. Whilst keen to explain and promote our ideas and activities here at Plymouth, I was also fascinated to hear about the breadth of expertise in Indian universities around the development of entrepreneurs in general, and social entrepreneurs in particular. We academic promoters found ourselves with much in common, and were keen to develop further links between institutions.Whilst most social entrepreneurship learning in India seems to be in business school postgraduate programmes, we also heard about university-run incubation programmes and facilities of various kinds. The Indian delegates repeatedly mentioned the role that social enterprise can play in providing a livelihood for their graduates, whilst UK contributors focussed on student experience, research and curriculum development and external partnerships.  Related: The World Bank and British Council back social enterprise in Morocco We also had really useful contributions from three Delhi-based social enterprises, demonstrating the passion, commitment and innovation that characterises our sector, whether in the UK or India. Particularly impressive was a women-only cab firm called Sakha Consulting Wings Pvt. Ltd. They set up to provide safe transport for women and children, and also to give livelihoods to women by training them as cab drivers. These drivers are able to become the chief breadwinner in their households, due to regular, fairly-paid work. Another social enterprise that participated in the dialogue was Green the Gap, which manufactures stylish laptop bags and other goods from recycled car tyres and similar materials \u2013 fantastic from both a consumer and ecological perspective. Their success served as a good reminder that many social enterprises flourish despite receiving very limited outside support.Moreover, these social entrepreneurs were insistent that we academics should consult them about the shape and type of any future provision of social enterprise teaching \u2013 a great reminder about keeping it real and relevant to our various audiences that is apparently as true in India as in the UK. So what did I bring home along with the purchases from the emporiums and markets of Delhi? First, Plymouth is in the first stages of developing an alliance with Centurion University in Bhubaneswar, which hopefully will become a lasting legacy of the British Council dialogue. Second, the British Council is planning to build on this first dialogue to create a sustained UK-India project \u2013 and Plymouth will hope to be part of it. Third, the journey was a reminder to centre our efforts to support new and existing social entrepreneurs within and outside our student population.Finally, it left me with a sense of belonging to a truly global movement.Judith Reynolds is the director, Social Enterprise University Enterprise Network, University of Plymouth. Until taking up her current post, Judith ran a very successful social enterprise support agency, enabling hundreds of social enterprises to develop across the south west of England. In this capacity she was responsible for the development and management of a revolving loan fund for social enterprises across Devon which ran for over five years. She was also, with other delivery partners, responsible for the design, development and management of a number of specialist business support programmes working across a range of funding streams including ESF and ERDF, European Community Funds, Single Regeneration Rounds 1-5 etc. In her current role with Plymouth University, she is responsible for the development and management of social enterprise working across the campus with staff and students, and forming partnerships with key players in the region to devise and deliver a range of social enterprise support. This has resulted in the formation of a delivery cluster with a current in year budget of over \u00a3100,000 for local support delivery, and the awarding by the Cabinet office of a social incubator project with a value of almost \u00a31m.Content on this page is paid for and provided by the British Council, sponsor of the International hub", "tags": ["Social Enterprise British Council Partner zone"], "title": "A social enterprise promoter\u2019s passage to India"},{"date": "2015-01-06T14:00:02Z", "country": "india", "content": "Over the next five years, India faces one of the world\u2019s biggest challenges \u2013 ending financial \u201cuntouchability\u201d for 100 million families, bringing clean, affordable and reliable supplies of water and energy to all of its 1.3 billion inhabitants, and investing in the enterprises that will provide livelihoods for an extra 10 million jobseekers each year.The demand for extra capital to meet these pressing needs is immense. Take renewable energy, which unites the issues of access and sustainability. India\u2019s new government has introduced a five-fold increase in the country\u2019s solar target to 100GW of installed capacity by 2022. This will require unprecedented investment, perhaps as much as an additional $100bn (\u00a364bn).Even though solar is increasingly competitive compared with power from conventional sources and offers attractive long-term cash flows with zero fuel risk, obstacles remain within the financial system. India\u2019s banks, for example, face regulatory exposure limits curbing the amount that they can lend to specific sectors. This means funding for clean energy can be capped because these limits have already been met for the power sector as a whole \u2013 leading to proposals to set a separate exposure limit for renewables.Alongside this capital deployment initiative is growing awareness of the need to establish a level playing field of sustainability standards in the financial world. Naina Lal Kidwai, country head for HSBC India, says: \u201cFor too long, a view has been allowed to take root in India that sustainability and finance are at odds; that taking account of environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors raises costs, reduces returns and impedes development.\u201dActual practice in India suggests the reverse. The Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI) has found, for example, that loans to energy efficient companies have a much better loan recovery rate than the norm. At infrastructure company IDFC the business case for sustainable finance is based on reduced risk, increased market share and greater access to international finance.This mix of necessity and opportunity provides an ideal moment to identify levers to scale up sustainable finance. To do this, the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) and the UNEP Inquiry have formed an advisory committee of leading financiers, policymakers and civil society representatives to generate practical policy options.Harnessing the power of financial innovation is key and this includes mobilising the country\u2019s debt and equity capital markets. Demand for green bonds among the world\u2019s institutional investors is soaring \u2013 and India\u2019s pipeline of investment projects in sustainable agriculture, clean energy, efficient buildings, mass transit, smart cities, clean water and waste provides the foundations for a thriving green bonds market. On India\u2019s equity markets, the new Infrastructure Investment Trust model offers another vehicle for investors to put money into sustainable infrastructure.Incentives will also be needed to overcome residual investment risks, but subsidies are unlikely to be the basis for sustainable finance in India. Key instruments could include guarantee and credit enhancement mechanisms from national and international development banks to draw in private capital \u2013 to underpin payments to energy service companies (ESCOs), for example, unlocking the crucial efficiency market in India.Tax breaks could also be used in a focused way to encourage investment flows, already used for the country\u2019s de facto green bond leader, the Indian Renewable Energy Development Authority (IREDA).Work is underway to develop a \u201cMade in India\u201d set of guidelines for the integration of ESG factors across banking. Refinements in financial regulation could also be necessary, particularly to correct for market failures (such as a lack of long-term capital for infrastructure). As well as looking at sector exposure levels, this could also involve examining how sustainability factors could impact upon core measures, such as the priority sector lending requirements in banking.Sell-side analysts and buy-side investors also need benchmarks to evaluate the quality of ESG information flowing from the new Business Responsibility reports from the top 100 companies on the country\u2019s stock exchanges.All of this will require new skills and capabilities across the financial system to grow an army of financial intermediaries who can provide the best advice and products to their clients, rich and poor, to navigate the sustainable finance landscape.There is growing momentum behind actions to link financial policy and sustainability around the world, whether it\u2019s Brazil\u2019s new requirements on environmental and social risk for its banking sector, or the Bank of England\u2019s examination of potential \u201cstranded assets\u201d linked to climate change.It is essential that this drive is linked to the broader expansion of financial inclusion so that India\u2019s under-served population get the financial services they deserve to meet their aspirations for energy, food, housing and sanitation.Jayant Sinha, India\u2019s minister of state for finance, said: \u201cIt\u2019s clear that India has to be a leader, and do it in a global way in partnership with others.\u201d There is no time to lose in building a sustainable financial system in India.Nick Robins is co-director of the UNEP Inquiry into the Design of a Sustainable Financial SystemRead more stories like this:The finance hub is funded by EY. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled \u2018brought to you by\u2019. Find out more here.Join the community of sustainability professionals and experts. Become a GSB member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox ", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "India", "Business"], "title": "Investing in India requires sustainable, reliable finance"},{"date": "2015-03-25T12:49:09Z", "country": "india", "content": "The global organisation for car safety has won a David and Goliath style battle with car giant Nissan to improve the safety of a brand new model that it argued should never have been allowed to go on sale.The Japanese car company has agreed to strengthen the body shell and fit airbags of its Datsun Go model, which has been on sale in India and South Africa since last year. Nissan had initially defended the integrity of the vehicle after the Global NCAP publicly called on Nissan last year to withdraw it from the Indian market. A crash test showed the Go had so little structural integrity that passengers were unlikely to survive a head-on collision. Related: Nissan called on to withdraw dangerous car model from Indian market David Ward, chief executive of Global NCAP, said the episode was a wake-up call to all car manufacturers that it is unacceptable to sell potentially dangerous cars in emerging markets and use the excuse that they comply with local legislation.The victory over Nissan comes after Global NCAP published a major report calling for urgent action on vehicle safety, warning that millions of new cars being sold in middle- and low-income countries fail to meet UN basic safety standards for front and side impacts.The report outlines a 10-point plan, including urging governments and the insurance industry to provide fiscal incentives and discounts to car buyers who opt for safer models and calling on automobile manufacturers to improve their sustainability reporting to include data on the applied safety standards of its global vehicle production.Global NCAP chairman Max Mosley said: \u201cSafety improvements stimulated by legislation and consumer awareness campaigns in high-income economies that have saved hundreds of thousands of lives are not yet systematically available for drivers and their families in rapidly growing lower-income markets.\u201cCrash-test standards introduced 20 years ago for cars sold in Europe are yet to be met by many new cars being sold today in leading middle-income countries in Africa, Asia and Latin America. This is entirely unacceptable. Manufacturers cannot continue to treat millions of their customers as second-class citizens when it comes to life-saving standards of occupant protection.\u201dWard said Nissan had complained that it was unfair to pick on the Datsun Go because \u201cthere were other cars on the market that were as bad, but we pointed out they were designed quite a few years ago. It was very significant that a brand new car was being introduced well into the UN Decade of Action for Road Safety should perform so badly.There is a disconnect between engineers who are trying to do their best and the financial people trying to save money\u201cTen companies produce 80% of all cars and they all know how to pass the safety tests. An obvious lesson is that they should all voluntarily agree minimum safety standards and then they can compete over and above that. If they do that, then the smaller manufacturers will have little option but to follow suit.\u201dWard said the car industry tends to exaggerate the cost of safety improvements and estimated the cost of fitting two airbags and strengthening the body shell of the Datsun Go would cost only around $200. He said even customers on a tight budget would be prepared to pay the extra cost to avoid the risk of death or serious injury.\u201cThese decisions are entirely driven by budget,\u201d he said. \u201cThere is a disconnect between the engineers who are trying to do their best and the financial people who try to save money by cutting back on safety features. This is what happens without a proper regulatory framework.\u201dWard says he met the head of the Datsun brand, Vincent Cobee, in February and will be meeting Nissan executives in May in Japan to press them to test the newly strengthened model before it goes on sale. Until then, Global NCAP is maintaing its position that the company should immediately stop selling the current model.A spur for action by Nissan, according to Ward, was that publicity over the crash test affected sales of the Datsun Go. He said this was a powerful example of the ability of consumers to drive change once they have the right information. This is not the first time that Global NCAP has clashed with Nissan. Mosley has in the past written two private letters to the company\u2019s CEO outlining problems with cars it is selling in Latin America, but never received a response.His complaint came after NCAP crash-tested the Nissan Tsuru in 2013. The car came close to total collapse and is fitted only with two-point seatbelts instead of the conventional three-point seatbelts in the rear, making it impossible to fit a child seat properly.Despite the dismal performance of the Tsuru, Nissan responded at the time to the Guardian by saying \u201cthe Tsuru meets safety regulations in the markets where it is sold. It is one of the best-selling sub-compact vehicles in our market due to its proven affordability, durability and reliability\u201d.A spokesperson for Nissan now said: \u201cAs a company, we invest in continuous product and model line-up enhancement taking into account market trends and customers\u2019 requirements. As part of ongoing product development we will offer driver\u2019s airbag as an option for Datsun GO+ and Datsun GO in India. Some technical evolution of the base car will also be implemented across the line-up to ensure efficient airbag performance.\u201dWhile the Datsun Go was the worst model to be tested in India, six other popular cars sold there also scored a zero rating. The others were the Maruti Suzuki Swift, Maruti Suzuki Alto 800, the Hyundai i10, the Ford Figo, the Volkswagen Polo, and the Tata Nano. The results are significant because India is the fifth-largest producer in the world of passenger cars and latest figures show that around 140,000 are killed in road accidents every year.After the results were published, Volkswagen decided to withdraw the models that did not have two airbags as standard and Toyota made a commitment to fit airbags in all cars sold in India.The social impact hub is funded by Anglo American. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled \u201cbrought to you by\u201d. Find out more here.Join the community of sustainability professionals and experts. Become a GSB member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Automotive industry", "Nissan", "Business"], "title": "Nissan backs down over car safety controversy in India"},{"date": "2015-01-29T11:56:45Z", "country": "india", "content": "Last autumn, I left my desk in the Futures Entrepreneurship Centre at the University of Plymouth to spend a packed and fascinating week in India, as a guest of the British Council. I first travelled to Bhubaneswar, the capital of Odisha (formerly Orissa) and one of India\u2019s fastest growing cities, to meet with academic colleagues and students and to look at various social enterprise projects and programmes. Run by universities, these projects cater to hundreds, sometimes thousands of people. One such micro-enterprise programme provides training and enterprise space for potentially hundreds of slum dwellers and their families.  Related: Affordable housing challenges give way to inspiring social enterprise solutions  The project is called \u201cUrban Micro Business Centre\u201d and is a joint venture between the Government of Odisha, the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation, an employment training agency and Centurion University. It was in India that I was introduced to the concept of \u201clivelihood\u201d as a driver for social business programmes \u2013 so obvious, but so infrequently articulated in the UK.  We often express the social value of social enterprises without referring to the fact that they create decent and sustainable jobs for the people engaged in them, and are not part of the low wage, low value economy.I also visited a vocational training space for young people of tribal origin that offers employer-related training, guaranteeing work for their successful learners, and most impressively, a school for tribal children with 22,000 pupils \u2013 all residential! In Plymouth, we value our partnership with our local authority, our partner colleges and the local social enterprise network. We like to think we touch many people with our provision.My experience in Bhubaneswar gives us some perspective on the size of programmes needed in India \u2013 and indeed at a UK level. There is a certain humility when we review the size of our programmes and our investment in them. Social enterprise development programmes in the UK are disparate and uncoordinated, lacking coherence and diminishing potential impact. There are lessons to be learned about the importance of doing and making provision at scale. Scale aside, there were many similarities. As is the case in the UK, social enterprises in India form as a response to a real social need and are inspired by the passion and innovation of a few key people.  Related: The Social Stock Exchange: unlocking capital for social and environmental good I encountered real enthusiasm for social entrepreneurship from business school and institute of management students in Bhubaneswar. Here in Plymouth, interest in social enterprise is widespread amongst students too and they can access opportunities to learn about the subject across all our course delivery \u2013 not solely in the Faculty of Business. Indeed, we offer a wide range of learning opportunities for staff and students and our social enterprise community, through workshops, conferences, informal learning events, competitions, and the provision of incubation space.At the end of the week, I participated in a UK \u2013 India university dialogue on social enterprise that was hosted and co-ordinated by the British Council in New Dehli. As one of the UK delegates I was privileged to meet the Indian university staff and social entrepreneurs who attended. Whilst keen to explain and promote our ideas and activities here at Plymouth, I was also fascinated to hear about the breadth of expertise in Indian universities around the development of entrepreneurs in general, and social entrepreneurs in particular. We academic promoters found ourselves with much in common, and were keen to develop further links between institutions.Whilst most social entrepreneurship learning in India seems to be in business school postgraduate programmes, we also heard about university-run incubation programmes and facilities of various kinds. The Indian delegates repeatedly mentioned the role that social enterprise can play in providing a livelihood for their graduates, whilst UK contributors focussed on student experience, research and curriculum development and external partnerships.  Related: The World Bank and British Council back social enterprise in Morocco We also had really useful contributions from three Delhi-based social enterprises, demonstrating the passion, commitment and innovation that characterises our sector, whether in the UK or India. Particularly impressive was a women-only cab firm called Sakha Consulting Wings Pvt. Ltd. They set up to provide safe transport for women and children, and also to give livelihoods to women by training them as cab drivers. These drivers are able to become the chief breadwinner in their households, due to regular, fairly-paid work. Another social enterprise that participated in the dialogue was Green the Gap, which manufactures stylish laptop bags and other goods from recycled car tyres and similar materials \u2013 fantastic from both a consumer and ecological perspective. Their success served as a good reminder that many social enterprises flourish despite receiving very limited outside support.Moreover, these social entrepreneurs were insistent that we academics should consult them about the shape and type of any future provision of social enterprise teaching \u2013 a great reminder about keeping it real and relevant to our various audiences that is apparently as true in India as in the UK. So what did I bring home along with the purchases from the emporiums and markets of Delhi? First, Plymouth is in the first stages of developing an alliance with Centurion University in Bhubaneswar, which hopefully will become a lasting legacy of the British Council dialogue. Second, the British Council is planning to build on this first dialogue to create a sustained UK-India project \u2013 and Plymouth will hope to be part of it. Third, the journey was a reminder to centre our efforts to support new and existing social entrepreneurs within and outside our student population.Finally, it left me with a sense of belonging to a truly global movement.Judith Reynolds is the director, Social Enterprise University Enterprise Network, University of Plymouth. Until taking up her current post, Judith ran a very successful social enterprise support agency, enabling hundreds of social enterprises to develop across the south west of England. In this capacity she was responsible for the development and management of a revolving loan fund for social enterprises across Devon which ran for over five years. She was also, with other delivery partners, responsible for the design, development and management of a number of specialist business support programmes working across a range of funding streams including ESF and ERDF, European Community Funds, Single Regeneration Rounds 1-5 etc. In her current role with Plymouth University, she is responsible for the development and management of social enterprise working across the campus with staff and students, and forming partnerships with key players in the region to devise and deliver a range of social enterprise support. This has resulted in the formation of a delivery cluster with a current in year budget of over \u00a3100,000 for local support delivery, and the awarding by the Cabinet office of a social incubator project with a value of almost \u00a31m.Content on this page is paid for and provided by the British Council, sponsor of the International hub", "tags": ["Social Enterprise British Council Partner zone"], "title": "A social enterprise promoter\u2019s passage to India"},{"date": "2015-01-06T14:00:02Z", "country": "india", "content": "Over the next five years, India faces one of the world\u2019s biggest challenges \u2013 ending financial \u201cuntouchability\u201d for 100 million families, bringing clean, affordable and reliable supplies of water and energy to all of its 1.3 billion inhabitants, and investing in the enterprises that will provide livelihoods for an extra 10 million jobseekers each year.The demand for extra capital to meet these pressing needs is immense. Take renewable energy, which unites the issues of access and sustainability. India\u2019s new government has introduced a five-fold increase in the country\u2019s solar target to 100GW of installed capacity by 2022. This will require unprecedented investment, perhaps as much as an additional $100bn (\u00a364bn).Even though solar is increasingly competitive compared with power from conventional sources and offers attractive long-term cash flows with zero fuel risk, obstacles remain within the financial system. India\u2019s banks, for example, face regulatory exposure limits curbing the amount that they can lend to specific sectors. This means funding for clean energy can be capped because these limits have already been met for the power sector as a whole \u2013 leading to proposals to set a separate exposure limit for renewables.Alongside this capital deployment initiative is growing awareness of the need to establish a level playing field of sustainability standards in the financial world. Naina Lal Kidwai, country head for HSBC India, says: \u201cFor too long, a view has been allowed to take root in India that sustainability and finance are at odds; that taking account of environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors raises costs, reduces returns and impedes development.\u201dActual practice in India suggests the reverse. The Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI) has found, for example, that loans to energy efficient companies have a much better loan recovery rate than the norm. At infrastructure company IDFC the business case for sustainable finance is based on reduced risk, increased market share and greater access to international finance.This mix of necessity and opportunity provides an ideal moment to identify levers to scale up sustainable finance. To do this, the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) and the UNEP Inquiry have formed an advisory committee of leading financiers, policymakers and civil society representatives to generate practical policy options.Harnessing the power of financial innovation is key and this includes mobilising the country\u2019s debt and equity capital markets. Demand for green bonds among the world\u2019s institutional investors is soaring \u2013 and India\u2019s pipeline of investment projects in sustainable agriculture, clean energy, efficient buildings, mass transit, smart cities, clean water and waste provides the foundations for a thriving green bonds market. On India\u2019s equity markets, the new Infrastructure Investment Trust model offers another vehicle for investors to put money into sustainable infrastructure.Incentives will also be needed to overcome residual investment risks, but subsidies are unlikely to be the basis for sustainable finance in India. Key instruments could include guarantee and credit enhancement mechanisms from national and international development banks to draw in private capital \u2013 to underpin payments to energy service companies (ESCOs), for example, unlocking the crucial efficiency market in India.Tax breaks could also be used in a focused way to encourage investment flows, already used for the country\u2019s de facto green bond leader, the Indian Renewable Energy Development Authority (IREDA).Work is underway to develop a \u201cMade in India\u201d set of guidelines for the integration of ESG factors across banking. Refinements in financial regulation could also be necessary, particularly to correct for market failures (such as a lack of long-term capital for infrastructure). As well as looking at sector exposure levels, this could also involve examining how sustainability factors could impact upon core measures, such as the priority sector lending requirements in banking.Sell-side analysts and buy-side investors also need benchmarks to evaluate the quality of ESG information flowing from the new Business Responsibility reports from the top 100 companies on the country\u2019s stock exchanges.All of this will require new skills and capabilities across the financial system to grow an army of financial intermediaries who can provide the best advice and products to their clients, rich and poor, to navigate the sustainable finance landscape.There is growing momentum behind actions to link financial policy and sustainability around the world, whether it\u2019s Brazil\u2019s new requirements on environmental and social risk for its banking sector, or the Bank of England\u2019s examination of potential \u201cstranded assets\u201d linked to climate change.It is essential that this drive is linked to the broader expansion of financial inclusion so that India\u2019s under-served population get the financial services they deserve to meet their aspirations for energy, food, housing and sanitation.Jayant Sinha, India\u2019s minister of state for finance, said: \u201cIt\u2019s clear that India has to be a leader, and do it in a global way in partnership with others.\u201d There is no time to lose in building a sustainable financial system in India.Nick Robins is co-director of the UNEP Inquiry into the Design of a Sustainable Financial SystemRead more stories like this:The finance hub is funded by EY. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled \u2018brought to you by\u2019. Find out more here.Join the community of sustainability professionals and experts. Become a GSB member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox ", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "India", "Business"], "title": "Investing in India requires sustainable, reliable finance"},{"date": "2015-03-25T12:49:09Z", "country": "india", "content": "The global organisation for car safety has won a David and Goliath style battle with car giant Nissan to improve the safety of a brand new model that it argued should never have been allowed to go on sale.The Japanese car company has agreed to strengthen the body shell and fit airbags of its Datsun Go model, which has been on sale in India and South Africa since last year. Nissan had initially defended the integrity of the vehicle after the Global NCAP publicly called on Nissan last year to withdraw it from the Indian market. A crash test showed the Go had so little structural integrity that passengers were unlikely to survive a head-on collision. Related: Nissan called on to withdraw dangerous car model from Indian market David Ward, chief executive of Global NCAP, said the episode was a wake-up call to all car manufacturers that it is unacceptable to sell potentially dangerous cars in emerging markets and use the excuse that they comply with local legislation.The victory over Nissan comes after Global NCAP published a major report calling for urgent action on vehicle safety, warning that millions of new cars being sold in middle- and low-income countries fail to meet UN basic safety standards for front and side impacts.The report outlines a 10-point plan, including urging governments and the insurance industry to provide fiscal incentives and discounts to car buyers who opt for safer models and calling on automobile manufacturers to improve their sustainability reporting to include data on the applied safety standards of its global vehicle production.Global NCAP chairman Max Mosley said: \u201cSafety improvements stimulated by legislation and consumer awareness campaigns in high-income economies that have saved hundreds of thousands of lives are not yet systematically available for drivers and their families in rapidly growing lower-income markets.\u201cCrash-test standards introduced 20 years ago for cars sold in Europe are yet to be met by many new cars being sold today in leading middle-income countries in Africa, Asia and Latin America. This is entirely unacceptable. Manufacturers cannot continue to treat millions of their customers as second-class citizens when it comes to life-saving standards of occupant protection.\u201dWard said Nissan had complained that it was unfair to pick on the Datsun Go because \u201cthere were other cars on the market that were as bad, but we pointed out they were designed quite a few years ago. It was very significant that a brand new car was being introduced well into the UN Decade of Action for Road Safety should perform so badly.There is a disconnect between engineers who are trying to do their best and the financial people trying to save money\u201cTen companies produce 80% of all cars and they all know how to pass the safety tests. An obvious lesson is that they should all voluntarily agree minimum safety standards and then they can compete over and above that. If they do that, then the smaller manufacturers will have little option but to follow suit.\u201dWard said the car industry tends to exaggerate the cost of safety improvements and estimated the cost of fitting two airbags and strengthening the body shell of the Datsun Go would cost only around $200. He said even customers on a tight budget would be prepared to pay the extra cost to avoid the risk of death or serious injury.\u201cThese decisions are entirely driven by budget,\u201d he said. \u201cThere is a disconnect between the engineers who are trying to do their best and the financial people who try to save money by cutting back on safety features. This is what happens without a proper regulatory framework.\u201dWard says he met the head of the Datsun brand, Vincent Cobee, in February and will be meeting Nissan executives in May in Japan to press them to test the newly strengthened model before it goes on sale. Until then, Global NCAP is maintaing its position that the company should immediately stop selling the current model.A spur for action by Nissan, according to Ward, was that publicity over the crash test affected sales of the Datsun Go. He said this was a powerful example of the ability of consumers to drive change once they have the right information. This is not the first time that Global NCAP has clashed with Nissan. Mosley has in the past written two private letters to the company\u2019s CEO outlining problems with cars it is selling in Latin America, but never received a response.His complaint came after NCAP crash-tested the Nissan Tsuru in 2013. The car came close to total collapse and is fitted only with two-point seatbelts instead of the conventional three-point seatbelts in the rear, making it impossible to fit a child seat properly.Despite the dismal performance of the Tsuru, Nissan responded at the time to the Guardian by saying \u201cthe Tsuru meets safety regulations in the markets where it is sold. It is one of the best-selling sub-compact vehicles in our market due to its proven affordability, durability and reliability\u201d.A spokesperson for Nissan now said: \u201cAs a company, we invest in continuous product and model line-up enhancement taking into account market trends and customers\u2019 requirements. As part of ongoing product development we will offer driver\u2019s airbag as an option for Datsun GO+ and Datsun GO in India. Some technical evolution of the base car will also be implemented across the line-up to ensure efficient airbag performance.\u201dWhile the Datsun Go was the worst model to be tested in India, six other popular cars sold there also scored a zero rating. The others were the Maruti Suzuki Swift, Maruti Suzuki Alto 800, the Hyundai i10, the Ford Figo, the Volkswagen Polo, and the Tata Nano. The results are significant because India is the fifth-largest producer in the world of passenger cars and latest figures show that around 140,000 are killed in road accidents every year.After the results were published, Volkswagen decided to withdraw the models that did not have two airbags as standard and Toyota made a commitment to fit airbags in all cars sold in India.The social impact hub is funded by Anglo American. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled \u201cbrought to you by\u201d. Find out more here.Join the community of sustainability professionals and experts. Become a GSB member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Automotive industry", "Nissan", "Business"], "title": "Nissan backs down over car safety controversy in India"},{"date": "2015-03-24T10:35:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "India\u2019s supreme court has struck down a controversial law that made posting \u201coffensive\u201d comments on social media a crime punishable by jail.The decision on Tuesday came after a two-year campaign by free speech activists, led by a  law student. In a decision that surprised many, judges said an amendment to India\u2019s Information Technology Act known as section 66A was unconstitutional and a restriction on freedom of speech.\u201cThe public\u2019s right to know is directly affected by section 66A,\u201d said Justice R F Nariman, reading out the judgment.The law, which received presidential assent in 2009, makes posting information of \u201cgrossly offensive or menacing character\u201d punishable by up to three years in jail. Campaigners claimed that it was repeatedly misused by police.This month police in the poor northern state of Uttar Pradesh arrested a teenager for a Facebook post which they said \u201ccarried derogatory language against a community\u201d wrongly attributed to a powerful local politician.Other cases include a university professor detained for posting a cartoon about the chief minister of the state of West Bengal.In 2012 two young women were arrested under the act over a Facebook post criticising the shutdown of Mumbai, India\u2019s commercial capital, after the death of a local hardline politician. One was arrested simply for \u201cliking\u201d the post, relatives said.The charges were later quashed by a Mumbai court but sparked outrage and fierce debate about online censorship in India.Karuna Nundy, a well-known lawyer who represented campaigners in the supreme court hearings, said section 66A had been \u201ca blot on the constitution\u201d. Nundy said: \u201cPeople who have taken on the biggest bullies can now speak without fear. The sense of freedom is wonderful. In these times of crackdowns on free speech around the world, and in India too, I am glad that our constitution still redeems us.\u201d The judgment runs to more than 200 pages, and is expected to deal with a range of issues related to online censorship.Politicians from all major parties in India welcomed the decision, though a spokesman for the rightwing Shiv Sena group said section 66A should remain to prevent \u201cmisuse\u201d of the internet.A spokesman for the ruling Bharatiya Janata party spoke of a \u201clandmark day for freedom of speech and expression\u201d.Ravi Shankar Prasad, the communications and law minister, told reporters that the government had earlier believed that firm guidelines should have been put in place to ensure the law \u201cwas in concordance with freedom of expression\u201d as guaranteed by the constitution.In court, government lawyers had agreed that the law had been misused, but argued that it was necessary to have some means to regulate offensive material on the internet.Manish Tewari, a politician from the Congress party, said the law \u201chad become an instrument of oppression\u201d.Tewari was minister for information and broadcasting in the previous government, led by the centre-left Congress party, which introduced the law.Other Congress officials said the law had been \u201cpoorly drafted\u201d.India is described as \u201cpartly free\u201d in terms of expression of opinion on the internet by US campaign group Freedom House. Neighbouring Pakistan and China were designated \u201cnot free\u201d.\u201cIn general, self-censorship is not widespread [in India],\u201d the group said in their 2014 report, though \u201ccriminal penalties on online speech in India have had a \u2018chilling effect\u2019 on online speech\u201d.Shreya Singhal, the young law student who petitioned the court on Section 66A, described the decision as \u201ca victory for the country\u201d.Questions of surveillance and censorship continue to fuel fierce argument in India. There are around 200 million internet users in the developing south Asian power, the third highest total in the world, although telecommunications infrastructure remains inadequate.Last month a BBC documentary on the gang-rape and murder of a student in Delhi in 2012 was banned from public screenings and broadcast in India. Facebook has reported that 5,832 pieces of content were restricted between July and December 2014 following requests from India, \u201cprimarily by law enforcement agencies and the India computer emergency response team including anti-religious content and hate speech that could cause unrest and disharmony\u201d. The Indian supreme court has a long history of intervening in controversial cases, and has often, though not exclusively, supported progressive arguments on human rights issues. One problem, campaigners say, is that laws dating back to the 19th century dealing with \u201csedition\u201d are being applied to online comment.Nundy, the lawyer, said much more needed to be done.\u201cThere has been no comprehensive overhaul of laws put in place by the [British] colonial government that had no interest in free speech,\u201d she said.", "tags": ["India", "Freedom of speech", "Internet", "Technology", "World news"], "title": "India supreme court strikes down internet censorship law"},{"date": "2015-01-29T11:56:45Z", "country": "india", "content": "Last autumn, I left my desk in the Futures Entrepreneurship Centre at the University of Plymouth to spend a packed and fascinating week in India, as a guest of the British Council. I first travelled to Bhubaneswar, the capital of Odisha (formerly Orissa) and one of India\u2019s fastest growing cities, to meet with academic colleagues and students and to look at various social enterprise projects and programmes. Run by universities, these projects cater to hundreds, sometimes thousands of people. One such micro-enterprise programme provides training and enterprise space for potentially hundreds of slum dwellers and their families.  Related: Affordable housing challenges give way to inspiring social enterprise solutions  The project is called \u201cUrban Micro Business Centre\u201d and is a joint venture between the Government of Odisha, the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation, an employment training agency and Centurion University. It was in India that I was introduced to the concept of \u201clivelihood\u201d as a driver for social business programmes \u2013 so obvious, but so infrequently articulated in the UK.  We often express the social value of social enterprises without referring to the fact that they create decent and sustainable jobs for the people engaged in them, and are not part of the low wage, low value economy.I also visited a vocational training space for young people of tribal origin that offers employer-related training, guaranteeing work for their successful learners, and most impressively, a school for tribal children with 22,000 pupils \u2013 all residential! In Plymouth, we value our partnership with our local authority, our partner colleges and the local social enterprise network. We like to think we touch many people with our provision.My experience in Bhubaneswar gives us some perspective on the size of programmes needed in India \u2013 and indeed at a UK level. There is a certain humility when we review the size of our programmes and our investment in them. Social enterprise development programmes in the UK are disparate and uncoordinated, lacking coherence and diminishing potential impact. There are lessons to be learned about the importance of doing and making provision at scale. Scale aside, there were many similarities. As is the case in the UK, social enterprises in India form as a response to a real social need and are inspired by the passion and innovation of a few key people.  Related: The Social Stock Exchange: unlocking capital for social and environmental good I encountered real enthusiasm for social entrepreneurship from business school and institute of management students in Bhubaneswar. Here in Plymouth, interest in social enterprise is widespread amongst students too and they can access opportunities to learn about the subject across all our course delivery \u2013 not solely in the Faculty of Business. Indeed, we offer a wide range of learning opportunities for staff and students and our social enterprise community, through workshops, conferences, informal learning events, competitions, and the provision of incubation space.At the end of the week, I participated in a UK \u2013 India university dialogue on social enterprise that was hosted and co-ordinated by the British Council in New Dehli. As one of the UK delegates I was privileged to meet the Indian university staff and social entrepreneurs who attended. Whilst keen to explain and promote our ideas and activities here at Plymouth, I was also fascinated to hear about the breadth of expertise in Indian universities around the development of entrepreneurs in general, and social entrepreneurs in particular. We academic promoters found ourselves with much in common, and were keen to develop further links between institutions.Whilst most social entrepreneurship learning in India seems to be in business school postgraduate programmes, we also heard about university-run incubation programmes and facilities of various kinds. The Indian delegates repeatedly mentioned the role that social enterprise can play in providing a livelihood for their graduates, whilst UK contributors focussed on student experience, research and curriculum development and external partnerships.  Related: The World Bank and British Council back social enterprise in Morocco We also had really useful contributions from three Delhi-based social enterprises, demonstrating the passion, commitment and innovation that characterises our sector, whether in the UK or India. Particularly impressive was a women-only cab firm called Sakha Consulting Wings Pvt. Ltd. They set up to provide safe transport for women and children, and also to give livelihoods to women by training them as cab drivers. These drivers are able to become the chief breadwinner in their households, due to regular, fairly-paid work. Another social enterprise that participated in the dialogue was Green the Gap, which manufactures stylish laptop bags and other goods from recycled car tyres and similar materials \u2013 fantastic from both a consumer and ecological perspective. Their success served as a good reminder that many social enterprises flourish despite receiving very limited outside support.Moreover, these social entrepreneurs were insistent that we academics should consult them about the shape and type of any future provision of social enterprise teaching \u2013 a great reminder about keeping it real and relevant to our various audiences that is apparently as true in India as in the UK. So what did I bring home along with the purchases from the emporiums and markets of Delhi? First, Plymouth is in the first stages of developing an alliance with Centurion University in Bhubaneswar, which hopefully will become a lasting legacy of the British Council dialogue. Second, the British Council is planning to build on this first dialogue to create a sustained UK-India project \u2013 and Plymouth will hope to be part of it. Third, the journey was a reminder to centre our efforts to support new and existing social entrepreneurs within and outside our student population.Finally, it left me with a sense of belonging to a truly global movement.Judith Reynolds is the director, Social Enterprise University Enterprise Network, University of Plymouth. Until taking up her current post, Judith ran a very successful social enterprise support agency, enabling hundreds of social enterprises to develop across the south west of England. In this capacity she was responsible for the development and management of a revolving loan fund for social enterprises across Devon which ran for over five years. She was also, with other delivery partners, responsible for the design, development and management of a number of specialist business support programmes working across a range of funding streams including ESF and ERDF, European Community Funds, Single Regeneration Rounds 1-5 etc. In her current role with Plymouth University, she is responsible for the development and management of social enterprise working across the campus with staff and students, and forming partnerships with key players in the region to devise and deliver a range of social enterprise support. This has resulted in the formation of a delivery cluster with a current in year budget of over \u00a3100,000 for local support delivery, and the awarding by the Cabinet office of a social incubator project with a value of almost \u00a31m.Content on this page is paid for and provided by the British Council, sponsor of the International hub", "tags": ["Social Enterprise British Council Partner zone"], "title": "A social enterprise promoter\u2019s passage to India"},{"date": "2015-01-06T14:00:02Z", "country": "india", "content": "Over the next five years, India faces one of the world\u2019s biggest challenges \u2013 ending financial \u201cuntouchability\u201d for 100 million families, bringing clean, affordable and reliable supplies of water and energy to all of its 1.3 billion inhabitants, and investing in the enterprises that will provide livelihoods for an extra 10 million jobseekers each year.The demand for extra capital to meet these pressing needs is immense. Take renewable energy, which unites the issues of access and sustainability. India\u2019s new government has introduced a five-fold increase in the country\u2019s solar target to 100GW of installed capacity by 2022. This will require unprecedented investment, perhaps as much as an additional $100bn (\u00a364bn).Even though solar is increasingly competitive compared with power from conventional sources and offers attractive long-term cash flows with zero fuel risk, obstacles remain within the financial system. India\u2019s banks, for example, face regulatory exposure limits curbing the amount that they can lend to specific sectors. This means funding for clean energy can be capped because these limits have already been met for the power sector as a whole \u2013 leading to proposals to set a separate exposure limit for renewables.Alongside this capital deployment initiative is growing awareness of the need to establish a level playing field of sustainability standards in the financial world. Naina Lal Kidwai, country head for HSBC India, says: \u201cFor too long, a view has been allowed to take root in India that sustainability and finance are at odds; that taking account of environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors raises costs, reduces returns and impedes development.\u201dActual practice in India suggests the reverse. The Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI) has found, for example, that loans to energy efficient companies have a much better loan recovery rate than the norm. At infrastructure company IDFC the business case for sustainable finance is based on reduced risk, increased market share and greater access to international finance.This mix of necessity and opportunity provides an ideal moment to identify levers to scale up sustainable finance. To do this, the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) and the UNEP Inquiry have formed an advisory committee of leading financiers, policymakers and civil society representatives to generate practical policy options.Harnessing the power of financial innovation is key and this includes mobilising the country\u2019s debt and equity capital markets. Demand for green bonds among the world\u2019s institutional investors is soaring \u2013 and India\u2019s pipeline of investment projects in sustainable agriculture, clean energy, efficient buildings, mass transit, smart cities, clean water and waste provides the foundations for a thriving green bonds market. On India\u2019s equity markets, the new Infrastructure Investment Trust model offers another vehicle for investors to put money into sustainable infrastructure.Incentives will also be needed to overcome residual investment risks, but subsidies are unlikely to be the basis for sustainable finance in India. Key instruments could include guarantee and credit enhancement mechanisms from national and international development banks to draw in private capital \u2013 to underpin payments to energy service companies (ESCOs), for example, unlocking the crucial efficiency market in India.Tax breaks could also be used in a focused way to encourage investment flows, already used for the country\u2019s de facto green bond leader, the Indian Renewable Energy Development Authority (IREDA).Work is underway to develop a \u201cMade in India\u201d set of guidelines for the integration of ESG factors across banking. Refinements in financial regulation could also be necessary, particularly to correct for market failures (such as a lack of long-term capital for infrastructure). As well as looking at sector exposure levels, this could also involve examining how sustainability factors could impact upon core measures, such as the priority sector lending requirements in banking.Sell-side analysts and buy-side investors also need benchmarks to evaluate the quality of ESG information flowing from the new Business Responsibility reports from the top 100 companies on the country\u2019s stock exchanges.All of this will require new skills and capabilities across the financial system to grow an army of financial intermediaries who can provide the best advice and products to their clients, rich and poor, to navigate the sustainable finance landscape.There is growing momentum behind actions to link financial policy and sustainability around the world, whether it\u2019s Brazil\u2019s new requirements on environmental and social risk for its banking sector, or the Bank of England\u2019s examination of potential \u201cstranded assets\u201d linked to climate change.It is essential that this drive is linked to the broader expansion of financial inclusion so that India\u2019s under-served population get the financial services they deserve to meet their aspirations for energy, food, housing and sanitation.Jayant Sinha, India\u2019s minister of state for finance, said: \u201cIt\u2019s clear that India has to be a leader, and do it in a global way in partnership with others.\u201d There is no time to lose in building a sustainable financial system in India.Nick Robins is co-director of the UNEP Inquiry into the Design of a Sustainable Financial SystemRead more stories like this:The finance hub is funded by EY. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled \u2018brought to you by\u2019. Find out more here.Join the community of sustainability professionals and experts. Become a GSB member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox ", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "India", "Business"], "title": "Investing in India requires sustainable, reliable finance"},{"date": "2015-03-25T12:49:09Z", "country": "india", "content": "The global organisation for car safety has won a David and Goliath style battle with car giant Nissan to improve the safety of a brand new model that it argued should never have been allowed to go on sale.The Japanese car company has agreed to strengthen the body shell and fit airbags of its Datsun Go model, which has been on sale in India and South Africa since last year. Nissan had initially defended the integrity of the vehicle after the Global NCAP publicly called on Nissan last year to withdraw it from the Indian market. A crash test showed the Go had so little structural integrity that passengers were unlikely to survive a head-on collision. Related: Nissan called on to withdraw dangerous car model from Indian market David Ward, chief executive of Global NCAP, said the episode was a wake-up call to all car manufacturers that it is unacceptable to sell potentially dangerous cars in emerging markets and use the excuse that they comply with local legislation.The victory over Nissan comes after Global NCAP published a major report calling for urgent action on vehicle safety, warning that millions of new cars being sold in middle- and low-income countries fail to meet UN basic safety standards for front and side impacts.The report outlines a 10-point plan, including urging governments and the insurance industry to provide fiscal incentives and discounts to car buyers who opt for safer models and calling on automobile manufacturers to improve their sustainability reporting to include data on the applied safety standards of its global vehicle production.Global NCAP chairman Max Mosley said: \u201cSafety improvements stimulated by legislation and consumer awareness campaigns in high-income economies that have saved hundreds of thousands of lives are not yet systematically available for drivers and their families in rapidly growing lower-income markets.\u201cCrash-test standards introduced 20 years ago for cars sold in Europe are yet to be met by many new cars being sold today in leading middle-income countries in Africa, Asia and Latin America. This is entirely unacceptable. Manufacturers cannot continue to treat millions of their customers as second-class citizens when it comes to life-saving standards of occupant protection.\u201dWard said Nissan had complained that it was unfair to pick on the Datsun Go because \u201cthere were other cars on the market that were as bad, but we pointed out they were designed quite a few years ago. It was very significant that a brand new car was being introduced well into the UN Decade of Action for Road Safety should perform so badly.There is a disconnect between engineers who are trying to do their best and the financial people trying to save money\u201cTen companies produce 80% of all cars and they all know how to pass the safety tests. An obvious lesson is that they should all voluntarily agree minimum safety standards and then they can compete over and above that. If they do that, then the smaller manufacturers will have little option but to follow suit.\u201dWard said the car industry tends to exaggerate the cost of safety improvements and estimated the cost of fitting two airbags and strengthening the body shell of the Datsun Go would cost only around $200. He said even customers on a tight budget would be prepared to pay the extra cost to avoid the risk of death or serious injury.\u201cThese decisions are entirely driven by budget,\u201d he said. \u201cThere is a disconnect between the engineers who are trying to do their best and the financial people who try to save money by cutting back on safety features. This is what happens without a proper regulatory framework.\u201dWard says he met the head of the Datsun brand, Vincent Cobee, in February and will be meeting Nissan executives in May in Japan to press them to test the newly strengthened model before it goes on sale. Until then, Global NCAP is maintaing its position that the company should immediately stop selling the current model.A spur for action by Nissan, according to Ward, was that publicity over the crash test affected sales of the Datsun Go. He said this was a powerful example of the ability of consumers to drive change once they have the right information. This is not the first time that Global NCAP has clashed with Nissan. Mosley has in the past written two private letters to the company\u2019s CEO outlining problems with cars it is selling in Latin America, but never received a response.His complaint came after NCAP crash-tested the Nissan Tsuru in 2013. The car came close to total collapse and is fitted only with two-point seatbelts instead of the conventional three-point seatbelts in the rear, making it impossible to fit a child seat properly.Despite the dismal performance of the Tsuru, Nissan responded at the time to the Guardian by saying \u201cthe Tsuru meets safety regulations in the markets where it is sold. It is one of the best-selling sub-compact vehicles in our market due to its proven affordability, durability and reliability\u201d.A spokesperson for Nissan now said: \u201cAs a company, we invest in continuous product and model line-up enhancement taking into account market trends and customers\u2019 requirements. As part of ongoing product development we will offer driver\u2019s airbag as an option for Datsun GO+ and Datsun GO in India. Some technical evolution of the base car will also be implemented across the line-up to ensure efficient airbag performance.\u201dWhile the Datsun Go was the worst model to be tested in India, six other popular cars sold there also scored a zero rating. The others were the Maruti Suzuki Swift, Maruti Suzuki Alto 800, the Hyundai i10, the Ford Figo, the Volkswagen Polo, and the Tata Nano. The results are significant because India is the fifth-largest producer in the world of passenger cars and latest figures show that around 140,000 are killed in road accidents every year.After the results were published, Volkswagen decided to withdraw the models that did not have two airbags as standard and Toyota made a commitment to fit airbags in all cars sold in India.The social impact hub is funded by Anglo American. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled \u201cbrought to you by\u201d. Find out more here.Join the community of sustainability professionals and experts. Become a GSB member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Automotive industry", "Nissan", "Business"], "title": "Nissan backs down over car safety controversy in India"},{"date": "2015-03-24T10:35:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "India\u2019s supreme court has struck down a controversial law that made posting \u201coffensive\u201d comments on social media a crime punishable by jail.The decision on Tuesday came after a two-year campaign by free speech activists, led by a  law student. In a decision that surprised many, judges said an amendment to India\u2019s Information Technology Act known as section 66A was unconstitutional and a restriction on freedom of speech.\u201cThe public\u2019s right to know is directly affected by section 66A,\u201d said Justice R F Nariman, reading out the judgment.The law, which received presidential assent in 2009, makes posting information of \u201cgrossly offensive or menacing character\u201d punishable by up to three years in jail. Campaigners claimed that it was repeatedly misused by police.This month police in the poor northern state of Uttar Pradesh arrested a teenager for a Facebook post which they said \u201ccarried derogatory language against a community\u201d wrongly attributed to a powerful local politician.Other cases include a university professor detained for posting a cartoon about the chief minister of the state of West Bengal.In 2012 two young women were arrested under the act over a Facebook post criticising the shutdown of Mumbai, India\u2019s commercial capital, after the death of a local hardline politician. One was arrested simply for \u201cliking\u201d the post, relatives said.The charges were later quashed by a Mumbai court but sparked outrage and fierce debate about online censorship in India.Karuna Nundy, a well-known lawyer who represented campaigners in the supreme court hearings, said section 66A had been \u201ca blot on the constitution\u201d. Nundy said: \u201cPeople who have taken on the biggest bullies can now speak without fear. The sense of freedom is wonderful. In these times of crackdowns on free speech around the world, and in India too, I am glad that our constitution still redeems us.\u201d The judgment runs to more than 200 pages, and is expected to deal with a range of issues related to online censorship.Politicians from all major parties in India welcomed the decision, though a spokesman for the rightwing Shiv Sena group said section 66A should remain to prevent \u201cmisuse\u201d of the internet.A spokesman for the ruling Bharatiya Janata party spoke of a \u201clandmark day for freedom of speech and expression\u201d.Ravi Shankar Prasad, the communications and law minister, told reporters that the government had earlier believed that firm guidelines should have been put in place to ensure the law \u201cwas in concordance with freedom of expression\u201d as guaranteed by the constitution.In court, government lawyers had agreed that the law had been misused, but argued that it was necessary to have some means to regulate offensive material on the internet.Manish Tewari, a politician from the Congress party, said the law \u201chad become an instrument of oppression\u201d.Tewari was minister for information and broadcasting in the previous government, led by the centre-left Congress party, which introduced the law.Other Congress officials said the law had been \u201cpoorly drafted\u201d.India is described as \u201cpartly free\u201d in terms of expression of opinion on the internet by US campaign group Freedom House. Neighbouring Pakistan and China were designated \u201cnot free\u201d.\u201cIn general, self-censorship is not widespread [in India],\u201d the group said in their 2014 report, though \u201ccriminal penalties on online speech in India have had a \u2018chilling effect\u2019 on online speech\u201d.Shreya Singhal, the young law student who petitioned the court on Section 66A, described the decision as \u201ca victory for the country\u201d.Questions of surveillance and censorship continue to fuel fierce argument in India. There are around 200 million internet users in the developing south Asian power, the third highest total in the world, although telecommunications infrastructure remains inadequate.Last month a BBC documentary on the gang-rape and murder of a student in Delhi in 2012 was banned from public screenings and broadcast in India. Facebook has reported that 5,832 pieces of content were restricted between July and December 2014 following requests from India, \u201cprimarily by law enforcement agencies and the India computer emergency response team including anti-religious content and hate speech that could cause unrest and disharmony\u201d. The Indian supreme court has a long history of intervening in controversial cases, and has often, though not exclusively, supported progressive arguments on human rights issues. One problem, campaigners say, is that laws dating back to the 19th century dealing with \u201csedition\u201d are being applied to online comment.Nundy, the lawyer, said much more needed to be done.\u201cThere has been no comprehensive overhaul of laws put in place by the [British] colonial government that had no interest in free speech,\u201d she said.", "tags": ["India", "Freedom of speech", "Internet", "Technology", "World news"], "title": "India supreme court strikes down internet censorship law"},{"date": "2015-03-15T14:00:02Z", "country": "india", "content": "In a police station in New Delhi, two officers are apologising to their superior. A young woman was brutally raped, and the police failed to take it seriously. A video showing their rudeness and reluctance to seek medical help has gone viral, sparking widespread criticism. \u201cSorry, sir,\u201d say the policemen, \u201cwe thought she was a randi [prostitute].\u201dIn December 2012, American journalist Lyndee Prickitt was living in\u00a0India\u2019s capital with her Indian partner and their new baby daughter when she heard about the horrific gang rape of Jyoti Singh (the subject of a recent controversial BBC documentary, India\u2019s Daughter). The attack on the 23-year-old medical student, who died of her injuries, provoked outrage and soul-searching in India and around the world, with calls to reform a deeply misogynistic culture.Prickitt\u2019s response was to do what came naturally to her: write. Having worked as a multimedia journalist for Reuters, she also understood how digital media could lend impact to her storytelling. The result is an interactive \u201cborn digital\u201d story, We Are Angry, which fuses fact and fiction, prose, audio and video in a devastatingly powerful way.The story \u2013 which is fictional, but has parallels with Singh\u2019s \u2013 is engagingly narrated by the victim, a 27-year-old entrepreneur. As we read or \u201cexperience\u201d it, we watch the \u201cviral video\u201d of policemen prodding the victim, read fictionalised news reports about the case and hear the voices of real Indians debating sexism. The experience flows seamlessly, even when we stop to click on the helpful integrated glossary of Hindi words.Prickitt\u2019s aim is to fuel the righteous anger she feels is necessary for change. She certainly achieves that, despite a tiny budget and reliance on volunteers. If an organisation were to lend funding\u00a0to polish it, translate it into Hindi and take it into schools, We Are Angry could have an even more profound impact.", "tags": ["Rape", "Books", "Technology", "India's Daughter", "India", "Women", "Ebooks", "Culture", "Society", "World news"], "title": "Outrage in India: rape and misogyny exposed - new ebooks"},{"date": "2015-01-29T11:56:45Z", "country": "india", "content": "Last autumn, I left my desk in the Futures Entrepreneurship Centre at the University of Plymouth to spend a packed and fascinating week in India, as a guest of the British Council. I first travelled to Bhubaneswar, the capital of Odisha (formerly Orissa) and one of India\u2019s fastest growing cities, to meet with academic colleagues and students and to look at various social enterprise projects and programmes. Run by universities, these projects cater to hundreds, sometimes thousands of people. One such micro-enterprise programme provides training and enterprise space for potentially hundreds of slum dwellers and their families.  Related: Affordable housing challenges give way to inspiring social enterprise solutions  The project is called \u201cUrban Micro Business Centre\u201d and is a joint venture between the Government of Odisha, the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation, an employment training agency and Centurion University. It was in India that I was introduced to the concept of \u201clivelihood\u201d as a driver for social business programmes \u2013 so obvious, but so infrequently articulated in the UK.  We often express the social value of social enterprises without referring to the fact that they create decent and sustainable jobs for the people engaged in them, and are not part of the low wage, low value economy.I also visited a vocational training space for young people of tribal origin that offers employer-related training, guaranteeing work for their successful learners, and most impressively, a school for tribal children with 22,000 pupils \u2013 all residential! In Plymouth, we value our partnership with our local authority, our partner colleges and the local social enterprise network. We like to think we touch many people with our provision.My experience in Bhubaneswar gives us some perspective on the size of programmes needed in India \u2013 and indeed at a UK level. There is a certain humility when we review the size of our programmes and our investment in them. Social enterprise development programmes in the UK are disparate and uncoordinated, lacking coherence and diminishing potential impact. There are lessons to be learned about the importance of doing and making provision at scale. Scale aside, there were many similarities. As is the case in the UK, social enterprises in India form as a response to a real social need and are inspired by the passion and innovation of a few key people.  Related: The Social Stock Exchange: unlocking capital for social and environmental good I encountered real enthusiasm for social entrepreneurship from business school and institute of management students in Bhubaneswar. Here in Plymouth, interest in social enterprise is widespread amongst students too and they can access opportunities to learn about the subject across all our course delivery \u2013 not solely in the Faculty of Business. Indeed, we offer a wide range of learning opportunities for staff and students and our social enterprise community, through workshops, conferences, informal learning events, competitions, and the provision of incubation space.At the end of the week, I participated in a UK \u2013 India university dialogue on social enterprise that was hosted and co-ordinated by the British Council in New Dehli. As one of the UK delegates I was privileged to meet the Indian university staff and social entrepreneurs who attended. Whilst keen to explain and promote our ideas and activities here at Plymouth, I was also fascinated to hear about the breadth of expertise in Indian universities around the development of entrepreneurs in general, and social entrepreneurs in particular. We academic promoters found ourselves with much in common, and were keen to develop further links between institutions.Whilst most social entrepreneurship learning in India seems to be in business school postgraduate programmes, we also heard about university-run incubation programmes and facilities of various kinds. The Indian delegates repeatedly mentioned the role that social enterprise can play in providing a livelihood for their graduates, whilst UK contributors focussed on student experience, research and curriculum development and external partnerships.  Related: The World Bank and British Council back social enterprise in Morocco We also had really useful contributions from three Delhi-based social enterprises, demonstrating the passion, commitment and innovation that characterises our sector, whether in the UK or India. Particularly impressive was a women-only cab firm called Sakha Consulting Wings Pvt. Ltd. They set up to provide safe transport for women and children, and also to give livelihoods to women by training them as cab drivers. These drivers are able to become the chief breadwinner in their households, due to regular, fairly-paid work. Another social enterprise that participated in the dialogue was Green the Gap, which manufactures stylish laptop bags and other goods from recycled car tyres and similar materials \u2013 fantastic from both a consumer and ecological perspective. Their success served as a good reminder that many social enterprises flourish despite receiving very limited outside support.Moreover, these social entrepreneurs were insistent that we academics should consult them about the shape and type of any future provision of social enterprise teaching \u2013 a great reminder about keeping it real and relevant to our various audiences that is apparently as true in India as in the UK. So what did I bring home along with the purchases from the emporiums and markets of Delhi? First, Plymouth is in the first stages of developing an alliance with Centurion University in Bhubaneswar, which hopefully will become a lasting legacy of the British Council dialogue. Second, the British Council is planning to build on this first dialogue to create a sustained UK-India project \u2013 and Plymouth will hope to be part of it. Third, the journey was a reminder to centre our efforts to support new and existing social entrepreneurs within and outside our student population.Finally, it left me with a sense of belonging to a truly global movement.Judith Reynolds is the director, Social Enterprise University Enterprise Network, University of Plymouth. Until taking up her current post, Judith ran a very successful social enterprise support agency, enabling hundreds of social enterprises to develop across the south west of England. In this capacity she was responsible for the development and management of a revolving loan fund for social enterprises across Devon which ran for over five years. She was also, with other delivery partners, responsible for the design, development and management of a number of specialist business support programmes working across a range of funding streams including ESF and ERDF, European Community Funds, Single Regeneration Rounds 1-5 etc. In her current role with Plymouth University, she is responsible for the development and management of social enterprise working across the campus with staff and students, and forming partnerships with key players in the region to devise and deliver a range of social enterprise support. This has resulted in the formation of a delivery cluster with a current in year budget of over \u00a3100,000 for local support delivery, and the awarding by the Cabinet office of a social incubator project with a value of almost \u00a31m.Content on this page is paid for and provided by the British Council, sponsor of the International hub", "tags": ["Social Enterprise British Council Partner zone"], "title": "A social enterprise promoter\u2019s passage to India"},{"date": "2015-01-06T14:00:02Z", "country": "india", "content": "Over the next five years, India faces one of the world\u2019s biggest challenges \u2013 ending financial \u201cuntouchability\u201d for 100 million families, bringing clean, affordable and reliable supplies of water and energy to all of its 1.3 billion inhabitants, and investing in the enterprises that will provide livelihoods for an extra 10 million jobseekers each year.The demand for extra capital to meet these pressing needs is immense. Take renewable energy, which unites the issues of access and sustainability. India\u2019s new government has introduced a five-fold increase in the country\u2019s solar target to 100GW of installed capacity by 2022. This will require unprecedented investment, perhaps as much as an additional $100bn (\u00a364bn).Even though solar is increasingly competitive compared with power from conventional sources and offers attractive long-term cash flows with zero fuel risk, obstacles remain within the financial system. India\u2019s banks, for example, face regulatory exposure limits curbing the amount that they can lend to specific sectors. This means funding for clean energy can be capped because these limits have already been met for the power sector as a whole \u2013 leading to proposals to set a separate exposure limit for renewables.Alongside this capital deployment initiative is growing awareness of the need to establish a level playing field of sustainability standards in the financial world. Naina Lal Kidwai, country head for HSBC India, says: \u201cFor too long, a view has been allowed to take root in India that sustainability and finance are at odds; that taking account of environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors raises costs, reduces returns and impedes development.\u201dActual practice in India suggests the reverse. The Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI) has found, for example, that loans to energy efficient companies have a much better loan recovery rate than the norm. At infrastructure company IDFC the business case for sustainable finance is based on reduced risk, increased market share and greater access to international finance.This mix of necessity and opportunity provides an ideal moment to identify levers to scale up sustainable finance. To do this, the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) and the UNEP Inquiry have formed an advisory committee of leading financiers, policymakers and civil society representatives to generate practical policy options.Harnessing the power of financial innovation is key and this includes mobilising the country\u2019s debt and equity capital markets. Demand for green bonds among the world\u2019s institutional investors is soaring \u2013 and India\u2019s pipeline of investment projects in sustainable agriculture, clean energy, efficient buildings, mass transit, smart cities, clean water and waste provides the foundations for a thriving green bonds market. On India\u2019s equity markets, the new Infrastructure Investment Trust model offers another vehicle for investors to put money into sustainable infrastructure.Incentives will also be needed to overcome residual investment risks, but subsidies are unlikely to be the basis for sustainable finance in India. Key instruments could include guarantee and credit enhancement mechanisms from national and international development banks to draw in private capital \u2013 to underpin payments to energy service companies (ESCOs), for example, unlocking the crucial efficiency market in India.Tax breaks could also be used in a focused way to encourage investment flows, already used for the country\u2019s de facto green bond leader, the Indian Renewable Energy Development Authority (IREDA).Work is underway to develop a \u201cMade in India\u201d set of guidelines for the integration of ESG factors across banking. Refinements in financial regulation could also be necessary, particularly to correct for market failures (such as a lack of long-term capital for infrastructure). As well as looking at sector exposure levels, this could also involve examining how sustainability factors could impact upon core measures, such as the priority sector lending requirements in banking.Sell-side analysts and buy-side investors also need benchmarks to evaluate the quality of ESG information flowing from the new Business Responsibility reports from the top 100 companies on the country\u2019s stock exchanges.All of this will require new skills and capabilities across the financial system to grow an army of financial intermediaries who can provide the best advice and products to their clients, rich and poor, to navigate the sustainable finance landscape.There is growing momentum behind actions to link financial policy and sustainability around the world, whether it\u2019s Brazil\u2019s new requirements on environmental and social risk for its banking sector, or the Bank of England\u2019s examination of potential \u201cstranded assets\u201d linked to climate change.It is essential that this drive is linked to the broader expansion of financial inclusion so that India\u2019s under-served population get the financial services they deserve to meet their aspirations for energy, food, housing and sanitation.Jayant Sinha, India\u2019s minister of state for finance, said: \u201cIt\u2019s clear that India has to be a leader, and do it in a global way in partnership with others.\u201d There is no time to lose in building a sustainable financial system in India.Nick Robins is co-director of the UNEP Inquiry into the Design of a Sustainable Financial SystemRead more stories like this:The finance hub is funded by EY. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled \u2018brought to you by\u2019. Find out more here.Join the community of sustainability professionals and experts. Become a GSB member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox ", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "India", "Business"], "title": "Investing in India requires sustainable, reliable finance"},{"date": "2015-03-25T12:49:09Z", "country": "india", "content": "The global organisation for car safety has won a David and Goliath style battle with car giant Nissan to improve the safety of a brand new model that it argued should never have been allowed to go on sale.The Japanese car company has agreed to strengthen the body shell and fit airbags of its Datsun Go model, which has been on sale in India and South Africa since last year. Nissan had initially defended the integrity of the vehicle after the Global NCAP publicly called on Nissan last year to withdraw it from the Indian market. A crash test showed the Go had so little structural integrity that passengers were unlikely to survive a head-on collision. Related: Nissan called on to withdraw dangerous car model from Indian market David Ward, chief executive of Global NCAP, said the episode was a wake-up call to all car manufacturers that it is unacceptable to sell potentially dangerous cars in emerging markets and use the excuse that they comply with local legislation.The victory over Nissan comes after Global NCAP published a major report calling for urgent action on vehicle safety, warning that millions of new cars being sold in middle- and low-income countries fail to meet UN basic safety standards for front and side impacts.The report outlines a 10-point plan, including urging governments and the insurance industry to provide fiscal incentives and discounts to car buyers who opt for safer models and calling on automobile manufacturers to improve their sustainability reporting to include data on the applied safety standards of its global vehicle production.Global NCAP chairman Max Mosley said: \u201cSafety improvements stimulated by legislation and consumer awareness campaigns in high-income economies that have saved hundreds of thousands of lives are not yet systematically available for drivers and their families in rapidly growing lower-income markets.\u201cCrash-test standards introduced 20 years ago for cars sold in Europe are yet to be met by many new cars being sold today in leading middle-income countries in Africa, Asia and Latin America. This is entirely unacceptable. Manufacturers cannot continue to treat millions of their customers as second-class citizens when it comes to life-saving standards of occupant protection.\u201dWard said Nissan had complained that it was unfair to pick on the Datsun Go because \u201cthere were other cars on the market that were as bad, but we pointed out they were designed quite a few years ago. It was very significant that a brand new car was being introduced well into the UN Decade of Action for Road Safety should perform so badly.There is a disconnect between engineers who are trying to do their best and the financial people trying to save money\u201cTen companies produce 80% of all cars and they all know how to pass the safety tests. An obvious lesson is that they should all voluntarily agree minimum safety standards and then they can compete over and above that. If they do that, then the smaller manufacturers will have little option but to follow suit.\u201dWard said the car industry tends to exaggerate the cost of safety improvements and estimated the cost of fitting two airbags and strengthening the body shell of the Datsun Go would cost only around $200. He said even customers on a tight budget would be prepared to pay the extra cost to avoid the risk of death or serious injury.\u201cThese decisions are entirely driven by budget,\u201d he said. \u201cThere is a disconnect between the engineers who are trying to do their best and the financial people who try to save money by cutting back on safety features. This is what happens without a proper regulatory framework.\u201dWard says he met the head of the Datsun brand, Vincent Cobee, in February and will be meeting Nissan executives in May in Japan to press them to test the newly strengthened model before it goes on sale. Until then, Global NCAP is maintaing its position that the company should immediately stop selling the current model.A spur for action by Nissan, according to Ward, was that publicity over the crash test affected sales of the Datsun Go. He said this was a powerful example of the ability of consumers to drive change once they have the right information. This is not the first time that Global NCAP has clashed with Nissan. Mosley has in the past written two private letters to the company\u2019s CEO outlining problems with cars it is selling in Latin America, but never received a response.His complaint came after NCAP crash-tested the Nissan Tsuru in 2013. The car came close to total collapse and is fitted only with two-point seatbelts instead of the conventional three-point seatbelts in the rear, making it impossible to fit a child seat properly.Despite the dismal performance of the Tsuru, Nissan responded at the time to the Guardian by saying \u201cthe Tsuru meets safety regulations in the markets where it is sold. It is one of the best-selling sub-compact vehicles in our market due to its proven affordability, durability and reliability\u201d.A spokesperson for Nissan now said: \u201cAs a company, we invest in continuous product and model line-up enhancement taking into account market trends and customers\u2019 requirements. As part of ongoing product development we will offer driver\u2019s airbag as an option for Datsun GO+ and Datsun GO in India. Some technical evolution of the base car will also be implemented across the line-up to ensure efficient airbag performance.\u201dWhile the Datsun Go was the worst model to be tested in India, six other popular cars sold there also scored a zero rating. The others were the Maruti Suzuki Swift, Maruti Suzuki Alto 800, the Hyundai i10, the Ford Figo, the Volkswagen Polo, and the Tata Nano. The results are significant because India is the fifth-largest producer in the world of passenger cars and latest figures show that around 140,000 are killed in road accidents every year.After the results were published, Volkswagen decided to withdraw the models that did not have two airbags as standard and Toyota made a commitment to fit airbags in all cars sold in India.The social impact hub is funded by Anglo American. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled \u201cbrought to you by\u201d. Find out more here.Join the community of sustainability professionals and experts. Become a GSB member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Automotive industry", "Nissan", "Business"], "title": "Nissan backs down over car safety controversy in India"},{"date": "2015-03-24T10:35:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "India\u2019s supreme court has struck down a controversial law that made posting \u201coffensive\u201d comments on social media a crime punishable by jail.The decision on Tuesday came after a two-year campaign by free speech activists, led by a  law student. In a decision that surprised many, judges said an amendment to India\u2019s Information Technology Act known as section 66A was unconstitutional and a restriction on freedom of speech.\u201cThe public\u2019s right to know is directly affected by section 66A,\u201d said Justice R F Nariman, reading out the judgment.The law, which received presidential assent in 2009, makes posting information of \u201cgrossly offensive or menacing character\u201d punishable by up to three years in jail. Campaigners claimed that it was repeatedly misused by police.This month police in the poor northern state of Uttar Pradesh arrested a teenager for a Facebook post which they said \u201ccarried derogatory language against a community\u201d wrongly attributed to a powerful local politician.Other cases include a university professor detained for posting a cartoon about the chief minister of the state of West Bengal.In 2012 two young women were arrested under the act over a Facebook post criticising the shutdown of Mumbai, India\u2019s commercial capital, after the death of a local hardline politician. One was arrested simply for \u201cliking\u201d the post, relatives said.The charges were later quashed by a Mumbai court but sparked outrage and fierce debate about online censorship in India.Karuna Nundy, a well-known lawyer who represented campaigners in the supreme court hearings, said section 66A had been \u201ca blot on the constitution\u201d. Nundy said: \u201cPeople who have taken on the biggest bullies can now speak without fear. The sense of freedom is wonderful. In these times of crackdowns on free speech around the world, and in India too, I am glad that our constitution still redeems us.\u201d The judgment runs to more than 200 pages, and is expected to deal with a range of issues related to online censorship.Politicians from all major parties in India welcomed the decision, though a spokesman for the rightwing Shiv Sena group said section 66A should remain to prevent \u201cmisuse\u201d of the internet.A spokesman for the ruling Bharatiya Janata party spoke of a \u201clandmark day for freedom of speech and expression\u201d.Ravi Shankar Prasad, the communications and law minister, told reporters that the government had earlier believed that firm guidelines should have been put in place to ensure the law \u201cwas in concordance with freedom of expression\u201d as guaranteed by the constitution.In court, government lawyers had agreed that the law had been misused, but argued that it was necessary to have some means to regulate offensive material on the internet.Manish Tewari, a politician from the Congress party, said the law \u201chad become an instrument of oppression\u201d.Tewari was minister for information and broadcasting in the previous government, led by the centre-left Congress party, which introduced the law.Other Congress officials said the law had been \u201cpoorly drafted\u201d.India is described as \u201cpartly free\u201d in terms of expression of opinion on the internet by US campaign group Freedom House. Neighbouring Pakistan and China were designated \u201cnot free\u201d.\u201cIn general, self-censorship is not widespread [in India],\u201d the group said in their 2014 report, though \u201ccriminal penalties on online speech in India have had a \u2018chilling effect\u2019 on online speech\u201d.Shreya Singhal, the young law student who petitioned the court on Section 66A, described the decision as \u201ca victory for the country\u201d.Questions of surveillance and censorship continue to fuel fierce argument in India. There are around 200 million internet users in the developing south Asian power, the third highest total in the world, although telecommunications infrastructure remains inadequate.Last month a BBC documentary on the gang-rape and murder of a student in Delhi in 2012 was banned from public screenings and broadcast in India. Facebook has reported that 5,832 pieces of content were restricted between July and December 2014 following requests from India, \u201cprimarily by law enforcement agencies and the India computer emergency response team including anti-religious content and hate speech that could cause unrest and disharmony\u201d. The Indian supreme court has a long history of intervening in controversial cases, and has often, though not exclusively, supported progressive arguments on human rights issues. One problem, campaigners say, is that laws dating back to the 19th century dealing with \u201csedition\u201d are being applied to online comment.Nundy, the lawyer, said much more needed to be done.\u201cThere has been no comprehensive overhaul of laws put in place by the [British] colonial government that had no interest in free speech,\u201d she said.", "tags": ["India", "Freedom of speech", "Internet", "Technology", "World news"], "title": "India supreme court strikes down internet censorship law"},{"date": "2015-03-15T14:00:02Z", "country": "india", "content": "In a police station in New Delhi, two officers are apologising to their superior. A young woman was brutally raped, and the police failed to take it seriously. A video showing their rudeness and reluctance to seek medical help has gone viral, sparking widespread criticism. \u201cSorry, sir,\u201d say the policemen, \u201cwe thought she was a randi [prostitute].\u201dIn December 2012, American journalist Lyndee Prickitt was living in\u00a0India\u2019s capital with her Indian partner and their new baby daughter when she heard about the horrific gang rape of Jyoti Singh (the subject of a recent controversial BBC documentary, India\u2019s Daughter). The attack on the 23-year-old medical student, who died of her injuries, provoked outrage and soul-searching in India and around the world, with calls to reform a deeply misogynistic culture.Prickitt\u2019s response was to do what came naturally to her: write. Having worked as a multimedia journalist for Reuters, she also understood how digital media could lend impact to her storytelling. The result is an interactive \u201cborn digital\u201d story, We Are Angry, which fuses fact and fiction, prose, audio and video in a devastatingly powerful way.The story \u2013 which is fictional, but has parallels with Singh\u2019s \u2013 is engagingly narrated by the victim, a 27-year-old entrepreneur. As we read or \u201cexperience\u201d it, we watch the \u201cviral video\u201d of policemen prodding the victim, read fictionalised news reports about the case and hear the voices of real Indians debating sexism. The experience flows seamlessly, even when we stop to click on the helpful integrated glossary of Hindi words.Prickitt\u2019s aim is to fuel the righteous anger she feels is necessary for change. She certainly achieves that, despite a tiny budget and reliance on volunteers. If an organisation were to lend funding\u00a0to polish it, translate it into Hindi and take it into schools, We Are Angry could have an even more profound impact.", "tags": ["Rape", "Books", "Technology", "India's Daughter", "India", "Women", "Ebooks", "Culture", "Society", "World news"], "title": "Outrage in India: rape and misogyny exposed - new ebooks"},{"date": "2015-03-15T20:59:48Z", "country": "india", "content": "Prayers were said at churches across India on Sunday for an elderly nun who was raped at a convent school in an attack that has scared Christians and intensified the nationwide anger over sexual violence.The 71-year-old was raped when she tried to stop a robbery early on Saturday at the Convent of Jesus and Mary in Ranaghat town, 74km north of Kolkata. Six armed men raided the convent, vandalised the chapel and stole the equivalent of \u00a37,500 from the school.The nun was left bleeding in the convent and was being treated in a hospital on Sunday. The convent\u2019s CCTV system caught the raiders on camera and police have detained several men. Related: Delhi rape: how India's other half lives The attack took place as India continues to debate the controversial documentary India\u2019s Daughter, broadcast by the BBC in Britain and other countries but banned from receiving an official airing in India by the authorities.  Related: India's Daughter: Delhi gang-rape film airs early on BBC following objections Police in Delhi arrested a 21-year-old activist on Saturday who has been attempting to get around the ban on the film, which explores the fatal gang rape of a student in Delhi in 2012. He was later released on bail.Ketan Dixit screened director Leslee Udwin\u2019s film in a slum in south Delhi where Mukesh Singh and three other men on death row for the brutal assault used to live.With borrowed projection equipment, Dixit showed the documentary to around 40 people in the Ravidas Camp slum. \u201cSo I felt people in the camp should see India\u2019s Daughter and make up their own minds about the film,\u201d he told the Guardian. \u201cThey may be poor, but they have a right to see such films and discuss them. What we\u2019ve to understand is that the issue is not about poverty or lack of education, but about mindsets.\u201d The women in the slum were shocked by the fury of the defence lawyer A.P. Singh, who effectively blamed the victim for her own death, Dixit said. He said a woman had told him after the screening: \u201cIf men change their mentality, women will be safe. It\u2019s shocking to see so-called educated men talk like this. We don\u2019t think like [the lawyer] though we\u2019ve never been to school.\u201dDixit had defied the ban earlier too and shown the film in a village near Agra on International Women\u2019s Day. Speaking before his arrest, Dixit had said he was less worried about the police than about radical Hindu groups. \u201cThey threatened to attack my parents\u2019 house in Agra if I\u2019m not arrested within 48 hours. Instead of fighting a social evil like rape, they\u2019re agitated about a film on rape,\u201d he said.", "tags": ["India", "Rape", "World news", "Society"], "title": "Prayers said across India for elderly nun who was raped"},{"date": "2015-01-29T11:56:45Z", "country": "india", "content": "Last autumn, I left my desk in the Futures Entrepreneurship Centre at the University of Plymouth to spend a packed and fascinating week in India, as a guest of the British Council. I first travelled to Bhubaneswar, the capital of Odisha (formerly Orissa) and one of India\u2019s fastest growing cities, to meet with academic colleagues and students and to look at various social enterprise projects and programmes. Run by universities, these projects cater to hundreds, sometimes thousands of people. One such micro-enterprise programme provides training and enterprise space for potentially hundreds of slum dwellers and their families.  Related: Affordable housing challenges give way to inspiring social enterprise solutions  The project is called \u201cUrban Micro Business Centre\u201d and is a joint venture between the Government of Odisha, the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation, an employment training agency and Centurion University. It was in India that I was introduced to the concept of \u201clivelihood\u201d as a driver for social business programmes \u2013 so obvious, but so infrequently articulated in the UK.  We often express the social value of social enterprises without referring to the fact that they create decent and sustainable jobs for the people engaged in them, and are not part of the low wage, low value economy.I also visited a vocational training space for young people of tribal origin that offers employer-related training, guaranteeing work for their successful learners, and most impressively, a school for tribal children with 22,000 pupils \u2013 all residential! In Plymouth, we value our partnership with our local authority, our partner colleges and the local social enterprise network. We like to think we touch many people with our provision.My experience in Bhubaneswar gives us some perspective on the size of programmes needed in India \u2013 and indeed at a UK level. There is a certain humility when we review the size of our programmes and our investment in them. Social enterprise development programmes in the UK are disparate and uncoordinated, lacking coherence and diminishing potential impact. There are lessons to be learned about the importance of doing and making provision at scale. Scale aside, there were many similarities. As is the case in the UK, social enterprises in India form as a response to a real social need and are inspired by the passion and innovation of a few key people.  Related: The Social Stock Exchange: unlocking capital for social and environmental good I encountered real enthusiasm for social entrepreneurship from business school and institute of management students in Bhubaneswar. Here in Plymouth, interest in social enterprise is widespread amongst students too and they can access opportunities to learn about the subject across all our course delivery \u2013 not solely in the Faculty of Business. Indeed, we offer a wide range of learning opportunities for staff and students and our social enterprise community, through workshops, conferences, informal learning events, competitions, and the provision of incubation space.At the end of the week, I participated in a UK \u2013 India university dialogue on social enterprise that was hosted and co-ordinated by the British Council in New Dehli. As one of the UK delegates I was privileged to meet the Indian university staff and social entrepreneurs who attended. Whilst keen to explain and promote our ideas and activities here at Plymouth, I was also fascinated to hear about the breadth of expertise in Indian universities around the development of entrepreneurs in general, and social entrepreneurs in particular. We academic promoters found ourselves with much in common, and were keen to develop further links between institutions.Whilst most social entrepreneurship learning in India seems to be in business school postgraduate programmes, we also heard about university-run incubation programmes and facilities of various kinds. The Indian delegates repeatedly mentioned the role that social enterprise can play in providing a livelihood for their graduates, whilst UK contributors focussed on student experience, research and curriculum development and external partnerships.  Related: The World Bank and British Council back social enterprise in Morocco We also had really useful contributions from three Delhi-based social enterprises, demonstrating the passion, commitment and innovation that characterises our sector, whether in the UK or India. Particularly impressive was a women-only cab firm called Sakha Consulting Wings Pvt. Ltd. They set up to provide safe transport for women and children, and also to give livelihoods to women by training them as cab drivers. These drivers are able to become the chief breadwinner in their households, due to regular, fairly-paid work. Another social enterprise that participated in the dialogue was Green the Gap, which manufactures stylish laptop bags and other goods from recycled car tyres and similar materials \u2013 fantastic from both a consumer and ecological perspective. Their success served as a good reminder that many social enterprises flourish despite receiving very limited outside support.Moreover, these social entrepreneurs were insistent that we academics should consult them about the shape and type of any future provision of social enterprise teaching \u2013 a great reminder about keeping it real and relevant to our various audiences that is apparently as true in India as in the UK. So what did I bring home along with the purchases from the emporiums and markets of Delhi? First, Plymouth is in the first stages of developing an alliance with Centurion University in Bhubaneswar, which hopefully will become a lasting legacy of the British Council dialogue. Second, the British Council is planning to build on this first dialogue to create a sustained UK-India project \u2013 and Plymouth will hope to be part of it. Third, the journey was a reminder to centre our efforts to support new and existing social entrepreneurs within and outside our student population.Finally, it left me with a sense of belonging to a truly global movement.Judith Reynolds is the director, Social Enterprise University Enterprise Network, University of Plymouth. Until taking up her current post, Judith ran a very successful social enterprise support agency, enabling hundreds of social enterprises to develop across the south west of England. In this capacity she was responsible for the development and management of a revolving loan fund for social enterprises across Devon which ran for over five years. She was also, with other delivery partners, responsible for the design, development and management of a number of specialist business support programmes working across a range of funding streams including ESF and ERDF, European Community Funds, Single Regeneration Rounds 1-5 etc. In her current role with Plymouth University, she is responsible for the development and management of social enterprise working across the campus with staff and students, and forming partnerships with key players in the region to devise and deliver a range of social enterprise support. This has resulted in the formation of a delivery cluster with a current in year budget of over \u00a3100,000 for local support delivery, and the awarding by the Cabinet office of a social incubator project with a value of almost \u00a31m.Content on this page is paid for and provided by the British Council, sponsor of the International hub", "tags": ["Social Enterprise British Council Partner zone"], "title": "A social enterprise promoter\u2019s passage to India"},{"date": "2015-01-06T14:00:02Z", "country": "india", "content": "Over the next five years, India faces one of the world\u2019s biggest challenges \u2013 ending financial \u201cuntouchability\u201d for 100 million families, bringing clean, affordable and reliable supplies of water and energy to all of its 1.3 billion inhabitants, and investing in the enterprises that will provide livelihoods for an extra 10 million jobseekers each year.The demand for extra capital to meet these pressing needs is immense. Take renewable energy, which unites the issues of access and sustainability. India\u2019s new government has introduced a five-fold increase in the country\u2019s solar target to 100GW of installed capacity by 2022. This will require unprecedented investment, perhaps as much as an additional $100bn (\u00a364bn).Even though solar is increasingly competitive compared with power from conventional sources and offers attractive long-term cash flows with zero fuel risk, obstacles remain within the financial system. India\u2019s banks, for example, face regulatory exposure limits curbing the amount that they can lend to specific sectors. This means funding for clean energy can be capped because these limits have already been met for the power sector as a whole \u2013 leading to proposals to set a separate exposure limit for renewables.Alongside this capital deployment initiative is growing awareness of the need to establish a level playing field of sustainability standards in the financial world. Naina Lal Kidwai, country head for HSBC India, says: \u201cFor too long, a view has been allowed to take root in India that sustainability and finance are at odds; that taking account of environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors raises costs, reduces returns and impedes development.\u201dActual practice in India suggests the reverse. The Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI) has found, for example, that loans to energy efficient companies have a much better loan recovery rate than the norm. At infrastructure company IDFC the business case for sustainable finance is based on reduced risk, increased market share and greater access to international finance.This mix of necessity and opportunity provides an ideal moment to identify levers to scale up sustainable finance. To do this, the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) and the UNEP Inquiry have formed an advisory committee of leading financiers, policymakers and civil society representatives to generate practical policy options.Harnessing the power of financial innovation is key and this includes mobilising the country\u2019s debt and equity capital markets. Demand for green bonds among the world\u2019s institutional investors is soaring \u2013 and India\u2019s pipeline of investment projects in sustainable agriculture, clean energy, efficient buildings, mass transit, smart cities, clean water and waste provides the foundations for a thriving green bonds market. On India\u2019s equity markets, the new Infrastructure Investment Trust model offers another vehicle for investors to put money into sustainable infrastructure.Incentives will also be needed to overcome residual investment risks, but subsidies are unlikely to be the basis for sustainable finance in India. Key instruments could include guarantee and credit enhancement mechanisms from national and international development banks to draw in private capital \u2013 to underpin payments to energy service companies (ESCOs), for example, unlocking the crucial efficiency market in India.Tax breaks could also be used in a focused way to encourage investment flows, already used for the country\u2019s de facto green bond leader, the Indian Renewable Energy Development Authority (IREDA).Work is underway to develop a \u201cMade in India\u201d set of guidelines for the integration of ESG factors across banking. Refinements in financial regulation could also be necessary, particularly to correct for market failures (such as a lack of long-term capital for infrastructure). As well as looking at sector exposure levels, this could also involve examining how sustainability factors could impact upon core measures, such as the priority sector lending requirements in banking.Sell-side analysts and buy-side investors also need benchmarks to evaluate the quality of ESG information flowing from the new Business Responsibility reports from the top 100 companies on the country\u2019s stock exchanges.All of this will require new skills and capabilities across the financial system to grow an army of financial intermediaries who can provide the best advice and products to their clients, rich and poor, to navigate the sustainable finance landscape.There is growing momentum behind actions to link financial policy and sustainability around the world, whether it\u2019s Brazil\u2019s new requirements on environmental and social risk for its banking sector, or the Bank of England\u2019s examination of potential \u201cstranded assets\u201d linked to climate change.It is essential that this drive is linked to the broader expansion of financial inclusion so that India\u2019s under-served population get the financial services they deserve to meet their aspirations for energy, food, housing and sanitation.Jayant Sinha, India\u2019s minister of state for finance, said: \u201cIt\u2019s clear that India has to be a leader, and do it in a global way in partnership with others.\u201d There is no time to lose in building a sustainable financial system in India.Nick Robins is co-director of the UNEP Inquiry into the Design of a Sustainable Financial SystemRead more stories like this:The finance hub is funded by EY. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled \u2018brought to you by\u2019. Find out more here.Join the community of sustainability professionals and experts. Become a GSB member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox ", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "India", "Business"], "title": "Investing in India requires sustainable, reliable finance"},{"date": "2015-03-25T12:49:09Z", "country": "india", "content": "The global organisation for car safety has won a David and Goliath style battle with car giant Nissan to improve the safety of a brand new model that it argued should never have been allowed to go on sale.The Japanese car company has agreed to strengthen the body shell and fit airbags of its Datsun Go model, which has been on sale in India and South Africa since last year. Nissan had initially defended the integrity of the vehicle after the Global NCAP publicly called on Nissan last year to withdraw it from the Indian market. A crash test showed the Go had so little structural integrity that passengers were unlikely to survive a head-on collision. Related: Nissan called on to withdraw dangerous car model from Indian market David Ward, chief executive of Global NCAP, said the episode was a wake-up call to all car manufacturers that it is unacceptable to sell potentially dangerous cars in emerging markets and use the excuse that they comply with local legislation.The victory over Nissan comes after Global NCAP published a major report calling for urgent action on vehicle safety, warning that millions of new cars being sold in middle- and low-income countries fail to meet UN basic safety standards for front and side impacts.The report outlines a 10-point plan, including urging governments and the insurance industry to provide fiscal incentives and discounts to car buyers who opt for safer models and calling on automobile manufacturers to improve their sustainability reporting to include data on the applied safety standards of its global vehicle production.Global NCAP chairman Max Mosley said: \u201cSafety improvements stimulated by legislation and consumer awareness campaigns in high-income economies that have saved hundreds of thousands of lives are not yet systematically available for drivers and their families in rapidly growing lower-income markets.\u201cCrash-test standards introduced 20 years ago for cars sold in Europe are yet to be met by many new cars being sold today in leading middle-income countries in Africa, Asia and Latin America. This is entirely unacceptable. Manufacturers cannot continue to treat millions of their customers as second-class citizens when it comes to life-saving standards of occupant protection.\u201dWard said Nissan had complained that it was unfair to pick on the Datsun Go because \u201cthere were other cars on the market that were as bad, but we pointed out they were designed quite a few years ago. It was very significant that a brand new car was being introduced well into the UN Decade of Action for Road Safety should perform so badly.There is a disconnect between engineers who are trying to do their best and the financial people trying to save money\u201cTen companies produce 80% of all cars and they all know how to pass the safety tests. An obvious lesson is that they should all voluntarily agree minimum safety standards and then they can compete over and above that. If they do that, then the smaller manufacturers will have little option but to follow suit.\u201dWard said the car industry tends to exaggerate the cost of safety improvements and estimated the cost of fitting two airbags and strengthening the body shell of the Datsun Go would cost only around $200. He said even customers on a tight budget would be prepared to pay the extra cost to avoid the risk of death or serious injury.\u201cThese decisions are entirely driven by budget,\u201d he said. \u201cThere is a disconnect between the engineers who are trying to do their best and the financial people who try to save money by cutting back on safety features. This is what happens without a proper regulatory framework.\u201dWard says he met the head of the Datsun brand, Vincent Cobee, in February and will be meeting Nissan executives in May in Japan to press them to test the newly strengthened model before it goes on sale. Until then, Global NCAP is maintaing its position that the company should immediately stop selling the current model.A spur for action by Nissan, according to Ward, was that publicity over the crash test affected sales of the Datsun Go. He said this was a powerful example of the ability of consumers to drive change once they have the right information. This is not the first time that Global NCAP has clashed with Nissan. Mosley has in the past written two private letters to the company\u2019s CEO outlining problems with cars it is selling in Latin America, but never received a response.His complaint came after NCAP crash-tested the Nissan Tsuru in 2013. The car came close to total collapse and is fitted only with two-point seatbelts instead of the conventional three-point seatbelts in the rear, making it impossible to fit a child seat properly.Despite the dismal performance of the Tsuru, Nissan responded at the time to the Guardian by saying \u201cthe Tsuru meets safety regulations in the markets where it is sold. It is one of the best-selling sub-compact vehicles in our market due to its proven affordability, durability and reliability\u201d.A spokesperson for Nissan now said: \u201cAs a company, we invest in continuous product and model line-up enhancement taking into account market trends and customers\u2019 requirements. As part of ongoing product development we will offer driver\u2019s airbag as an option for Datsun GO+ and Datsun GO in India. Some technical evolution of the base car will also be implemented across the line-up to ensure efficient airbag performance.\u201dWhile the Datsun Go was the worst model to be tested in India, six other popular cars sold there also scored a zero rating. The others were the Maruti Suzuki Swift, Maruti Suzuki Alto 800, the Hyundai i10, the Ford Figo, the Volkswagen Polo, and the Tata Nano. The results are significant because India is the fifth-largest producer in the world of passenger cars and latest figures show that around 140,000 are killed in road accidents every year.After the results were published, Volkswagen decided to withdraw the models that did not have two airbags as standard and Toyota made a commitment to fit airbags in all cars sold in India.The social impact hub is funded by Anglo American. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled \u201cbrought to you by\u201d. Find out more here.Join the community of sustainability professionals and experts. Become a GSB member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Automotive industry", "Nissan", "Business"], "title": "Nissan backs down over car safety controversy in India"},{"date": "2015-03-24T10:35:00Z", "country": "india", "content": "India\u2019s supreme court has struck down a controversial law that made posting \u201coffensive\u201d comments on social media a crime punishable by jail.The decision on Tuesday came after a two-year campaign by free speech activists, led by a  law student. In a decision that surprised many, judges said an amendment to India\u2019s Information Technology Act known as section 66A was unconstitutional and a restriction on freedom of speech.\u201cThe public\u2019s right to know is directly affected by section 66A,\u201d said Justice R F Nariman, reading out the judgment.The law, which received presidential assent in 2009, makes posting information of \u201cgrossly offensive or menacing character\u201d punishable by up to three years in jail. Campaigners claimed that it was repeatedly misused by police.This month police in the poor northern state of Uttar Pradesh arrested a teenager for a Facebook post which they said \u201ccarried derogatory language against a community\u201d wrongly attributed to a powerful local politician.Other cases include a university professor detained for posting a cartoon about the chief minister of the state of West Bengal.In 2012 two young women were arrested under the act over a Facebook post criticising the shutdown of Mumbai, India\u2019s commercial capital, after the death of a local hardline politician. One was arrested simply for \u201cliking\u201d the post, relatives said.The charges were later quashed by a Mumbai court but sparked outrage and fierce debate about online censorship in India.Karuna Nundy, a well-known lawyer who represented campaigners in the supreme court hearings, said section 66A had been \u201ca blot on the constitution\u201d. Nundy said: \u201cPeople who have taken on the biggest bullies can now speak without fear. The sense of freedom is wonderful. In these times of crackdowns on free speech around the world, and in India too, I am glad that our constitution still redeems us.\u201d The judgment runs to more than 200 pages, and is expected to deal with a range of issues related to online censorship.Politicians from all major parties in India welcomed the decision, though a spokesman for the rightwing Shiv Sena group said section 66A should remain to prevent \u201cmisuse\u201d of the internet.A spokesman for the ruling Bharatiya Janata party spoke of a \u201clandmark day for freedom of speech and expression\u201d.Ravi Shankar Prasad, the communications and law minister, told reporters that the government had earlier believed that firm guidelines should have been put in place to ensure the law \u201cwas in concordance with freedom of expression\u201d as guaranteed by the constitution.In court, government lawyers had agreed that the law had been misused, but argued that it was necessary to have some means to regulate offensive material on the internet.Manish Tewari, a politician from the Congress party, said the law \u201chad become an instrument of oppression\u201d.Tewari was minister for information and broadcasting in the previous government, led by the centre-left Congress party, which introduced the law.Other Congress officials said the law had been \u201cpoorly drafted\u201d.India is described as \u201cpartly free\u201d in terms of expression of opinion on the internet by US campaign group Freedom House. Neighbouring Pakistan and China were designated \u201cnot free\u201d.\u201cIn general, self-censorship is not widespread [in India],\u201d the group said in their 2014 report, though \u201ccriminal penalties on online speech in India have had a \u2018chilling effect\u2019 on online speech\u201d.Shreya Singhal, the young law student who petitioned the court on Section 66A, described the decision as \u201ca victory for the country\u201d.Questions of surveillance and censorship continue to fuel fierce argument in India. There are around 200 million internet users in the developing south Asian power, the third highest total in the world, although telecommunications infrastructure remains inadequate.Last month a BBC documentary on the gang-rape and murder of a student in Delhi in 2012 was banned from public screenings and broadcast in India. Facebook has reported that 5,832 pieces of content were restricted between July and December 2014 following requests from India, \u201cprimarily by law enforcement agencies and the India computer emergency response team including anti-religious content and hate speech that could cause unrest and disharmony\u201d. The Indian supreme court has a long history of intervening in controversial cases, and has often, though not exclusively, supported progressive arguments on human rights issues. One problem, campaigners say, is that laws dating back to the 19th century dealing with \u201csedition\u201d are being applied to online comment.Nundy, the lawyer, said much more needed to be done.\u201cThere has been no comprehensive overhaul of laws put in place by the [British] colonial government that had no interest in free speech,\u201d she said.", "tags": ["India", "Freedom of speech", "Internet", "Technology", "World news"], "title": "India supreme court strikes down internet censorship law"},{"date": "2015-03-15T14:00:02Z", "country": "india", "content": "In a police station in New Delhi, two officers are apologising to their superior. A young woman was brutally raped, and the police failed to take it seriously. A video showing their rudeness and reluctance to seek medical help has gone viral, sparking widespread criticism. \u201cSorry, sir,\u201d say the policemen, \u201cwe thought she was a randi [prostitute].\u201dIn December 2012, American journalist Lyndee Prickitt was living in\u00a0India\u2019s capital with her Indian partner and their new baby daughter when she heard about the horrific gang rape of Jyoti Singh (the subject of a recent controversial BBC documentary, India\u2019s Daughter). The attack on the 23-year-old medical student, who died of her injuries, provoked outrage and soul-searching in India and around the world, with calls to reform a deeply misogynistic culture.Prickitt\u2019s response was to do what came naturally to her: write. Having worked as a multimedia journalist for Reuters, she also understood how digital media could lend impact to her storytelling. The result is an interactive \u201cborn digital\u201d story, We Are Angry, which fuses fact and fiction, prose, audio and video in a devastatingly powerful way.The story \u2013 which is fictional, but has parallels with Singh\u2019s \u2013 is engagingly narrated by the victim, a 27-year-old entrepreneur. As we read or \u201cexperience\u201d it, we watch the \u201cviral video\u201d of policemen prodding the victim, read fictionalised news reports about the case and hear the voices of real Indians debating sexism. The experience flows seamlessly, even when we stop to click on the helpful integrated glossary of Hindi words.Prickitt\u2019s aim is to fuel the righteous anger she feels is necessary for change. She certainly achieves that, despite a tiny budget and reliance on volunteers. If an organisation were to lend funding\u00a0to polish it, translate it into Hindi and take it into schools, We Are Angry could have an even more profound impact.", "tags": ["Rape", "Books", "Technology", "India's Daughter", "India", "Women", "Ebooks", "Culture", "Society", "World news"], "title": "Outrage in India: rape and misogyny exposed - new ebooks"},{"date": "2015-03-15T20:59:48Z", "country": "india", "content": "Prayers were said at churches across India on Sunday for an elderly nun who was raped at a convent school in an attack that has scared Christians and intensified the nationwide anger over sexual violence.The 71-year-old was raped when she tried to stop a robbery early on Saturday at the Convent of Jesus and Mary in Ranaghat town, 74km north of Kolkata. Six armed men raided the convent, vandalised the chapel and stole the equivalent of \u00a37,500 from the school.The nun was left bleeding in the convent and was being treated in a hospital on Sunday. The convent\u2019s CCTV system caught the raiders on camera and police have detained several men. Related: Delhi rape: how India's other half lives The attack took place as India continues to debate the controversial documentary India\u2019s Daughter, broadcast by the BBC in Britain and other countries but banned from receiving an official airing in India by the authorities.  Related: India's Daughter: Delhi gang-rape film airs early on BBC following objections Police in Delhi arrested a 21-year-old activist on Saturday who has been attempting to get around the ban on the film, which explores the fatal gang rape of a student in Delhi in 2012. He was later released on bail.Ketan Dixit screened director Leslee Udwin\u2019s film in a slum in south Delhi where Mukesh Singh and three other men on death row for the brutal assault used to live.With borrowed projection equipment, Dixit showed the documentary to around 40 people in the Ravidas Camp slum. \u201cSo I felt people in the camp should see India\u2019s Daughter and make up their own minds about the film,\u201d he told the Guardian. \u201cThey may be poor, but they have a right to see such films and discuss them. What we\u2019ve to understand is that the issue is not about poverty or lack of education, but about mindsets.\u201d The women in the slum were shocked by the fury of the defence lawyer A.P. Singh, who effectively blamed the victim for her own death, Dixit said. He said a woman had told him after the screening: \u201cIf men change their mentality, women will be safe. It\u2019s shocking to see so-called educated men talk like this. We don\u2019t think like [the lawyer] though we\u2019ve never been to school.\u201dDixit had defied the ban earlier too and shown the film in a village near Agra on International Women\u2019s Day. Speaking before his arrest, Dixit had said he was less worried about the police than about radical Hindu groups. \u201cThey threatened to attack my parents\u2019 house in Agra if I\u2019m not arrested within 48 hours. Instead of fighting a social evil like rape, they\u2019re agitated about a film on rape,\u201d he said.", "tags": ["India", "Rape", "World news", "Society"], "title": "Prayers said across India for elderly nun who was raped"},{"date": "2015-03-14T12:54:57Z", "country": "india", "content": "A nun in her 70s has been gang-raped by a group of robbers when she tried to prevent them from robbing a Christian missionary school in eastern India.A police officer says the nun was admitted to hospital in serious condition after the attack, which was committed early on Saturday by seven to eight robbers at the Convent of Jesus and Mary School in West Bengal state\u2019s Nadia district.The attack is the latest incident to focus attention on the scourge of sexual violence in India. Related: It\u2019s not Leslee Udwin\u2019s message that India is struggling to accept, it\u2019s the messenger  The officer says police are searching for the bandits, who escaped with some cash, a mobile phone, a laptop computer and a camera after vandalising the school.Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee of West Bengal state, where the school is located, condemned the incident and said \u201cswift, strongest action\u201d would be taken. Last week Delhi police went to a lower court to prevent the broadcast of rape documentary India\u2019s Daughter by an Indian TV station on International Women\u2019s Day. But after it was shown on BBC4 in the UK, the film went viral on the internet, attracting a huge audience in India and widespread discussion.", "tags": ["India", "Rape", "Law", "Society", "World news"], "title": "Elderly nun gang-raped by robbers in eastern India"},{"date": "2015-05-27T05:00:29Z", "country": "india", "content": "Beneath a sky made opaque by billowing dust, a mechanised shovel driver steered his vehicle toward the vast wall of an open coal mine. It was the middle of a central Indian summer afternoon, and outside, the temperature had hit 45C. Up in the cab, 15 metres above the black, shiny ground, it was comfortable, air-conditioned.The driver tipped the steel-toothed rim of the shovel\u2019s bucket downwards, then slammed it into the coal seam wall in front of him. A few hours earlier, a drilling rig mounted on caterpillar tracks had drilled deep holes into the coal from the flat ground above, and filled them with explosives. Their detonation broke the coal into diggable chunks, some of them pebbles, others a metre across.The seam being worked was 20 metres thick, and lay some 300 metres beneath what was once the ground\u2019s surface \u2013 the deeper of two black stripes of coal. Overlying the seams, until it was blasted and dug away, were much larger quantities of grey-brown shale, what miners call \u201coverburden\u201d. Having been stripped from the coal, it lay stacked up in mountainous piles on either side of the mine, the walls of an artificial Grand Canyon. The surface area of this mine, Dudhichua, is 16 square\u00a0kilometres.In the year ending March 2015, Dudhichua produced 15m tonnes of coal \u2013 more than the UK\u2019s entire remaining production. But it is only one of 16 mines in the Singrauli coalfield, which spans parts of two districts in Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. All but one are owned by the state-run Northern Coalfields Ltd, a subsidiary of Coal India, one of the country\u2019s biggest firms. As is the case with other Indian coalfields, Singrauli is home to numerous coal-fired thermal electricity plants, some almost on the doorstep of the mines. Their current aggregate capacity is about 20 gigawatts, nearly 10% of India\u2019s total national generating capacity. (By comparison, peak electricity demand for the entire UK is only 57GW.)Singrauli may be one of India\u2019s biggest energy hubs, but it is also isolated. Apart from the mines and power stations, the coalfield is home to a handful of towns, poverty-stricken villages and some prosperous corporate \u201ccolonies\u201d, with their own schools, sports fields and clinics. To visit the area involves a 220km drive from the nearest airport at Varanasi, on a chaotic road that often lacks a proper surface: the journey\u00a0can easily take eight hours. Phone signals and internet\u00a0are intermittent. The only communications that really work are the high-voltage power lines that carry Singrauli\u2019s output to the teeming cities of northern India\u2019s plains. Last year, the coalfield\u2019s total production was about 87m tonnes. (When the British coal industry began to decline with the outbreak of the 1984 miners\u2019 strike, it was producing about 130m tonnes annually.)Singrauli\u2019s significance \u2013 and that of the subcontinent\u2019s many other coalfields, which span the length and breadth of\u00a0India, with further large reserves in Pakistan \u2013 extends globally. In 2013, the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) reported that in order to restrict the increase of world average temperatures to 2C above pre-industrial times, the world must adopt a strict \u201ccarbon budget\u201d for emissions. According to the IPCC, the current rate of fossil fuel burning will exhaust this within 25 years, after which fuels must either be left unexploited, or have their emissions kept from the atmosphere by carbon capture and storage.India has the world\u2019s fifth-largest coal reserves \u2013\u00a0and very few cleaner fossil fuels, such as natural gas. Its leaders are also determined to spread the benefits of economic\u00a0development more widely among its population of almost 1.3bn people \u2013\u00a0one third of whom still have no access to\u00a0electricity.Anil Swarup, the permanent secretary at the coal ministry in Delhi, said in an interview that last year Indian production from both private and state-owned mines was 620m tonnes, more than 85% of it from open-cast workings. A further 400m tonnes were imported. At Singrauli and elsewhere, he added, production is set to increase rapidly, with strong encouragement from the rightwing Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, which swept to power last year. Modi is determined to restore the sustained GDP growth rate of 8-10% that India enjoyed for a decade until 2011.\u201cWe are looking to double Indian coal production by 2020,\u201d Swarup said, \u201cand to reduce reliance on imports.\u201d Beyond that date, he said production would continue to rise to 1.5bn tonnes a year, with most of this being burnt in coal-fired power plants. In the past six months, the government has given environmental clearance to 41 new mining projects. The consequence, Swarup said, is that from now until 2020, \u201ca new mine will be opened every month. You have to work on the assumption of requirement, and in India, there is a need for power.\u201dLast August, the Indian supreme court ruled that more than 200 mining licences awarded by governments before 2010 were illegal, forcing the cancellation of numerous planned projects. The system that its judgment set aside had already been shown to be rife with corruption. The most prominent casualty of India\u2019s \u201cCoalgate\u201d scandal was the former Congress prime minister Manmohan Singh, who last month came close to criminal indictment.Enshrined in a law enacted by Modi\u2019s government is a new scheme under which coal blocks are auctioned to the highest bidder. It hugely incentivises state governments to foster new mines. According to Swarup, the auctions of the 209 blocks that have been sold off to date have raised about \u00a317bn \u2013 money that will swell state coffers for the next 30 years: \u201cThis will change the states\u2019 economies. They were really strapped for money. Now they will get it.\u201dMany of the richest untapped reserves lie in heavily forested areas, some near Singrauli in Madhya Pradesh, but mainly in Chattisgarh and Jharkand in central India. There, those whose land will be subject to \u201cacquisition\u201d are some of India\u2019s poorest inhabitants, many of them Adivasis \u2013\u00a0members of indigenous tribes.Swarup insisted that preserving the environment was a high priority for those overseeing India\u2019s new coal boom. \u201cSeeing how the environment can be maintained is a crucial part of this. Whenever I talk to my officers, I say the environment is non-negotiable. But there is no viable alternative to developing more coal. Energy requirements have to be met.\u201dTo many western environmentalists, who are determined to see a binding global deal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions at the UN climate change conference in Paris later this year, India\u2019s rising coal use is anathema. However, across a broad range of Delhi politicians and policymakers there is near unanimity. There is, they say, simply no possibility that at this stage in its development India will agree to any form of emissions cap, let alone a cut. Even a pledge of the kind made by China\u2019s leader Xi Jinping after talks with US president\u00a0Barack Obama last year, that Chinese emissions would rise to a peak in 2030 and thereafter decline, would be out of the question.This issue \u2013 the balance between the environment and growth \u2013 arises in every developing country. But India\u2019s sheer size means that its resolution is of exceptional significance.Modi has spoken repeatedly of India\u2019s \u201cright to growth\u201d. Prakash Javadekar, the cabinet minister responsible for the environment, forests and climate change, enlarged on this in blunt terms, speaking in his office at the Rajya Sabha, the upper house of India\u2019s parliament: \u201cOur emissions will grow because we are not developed and we have a right, every person on this Earth has a right, to develop. If today the world is 0.8C warmer [than it was in pre-industrial times], it is not my fault. It is the historical responsibility of those who started emitting with the industrial revolution.\u201d (However, largely because of its sheer size and population, India is one of the ten biggest historical emitters, having contributed around 7% to the warming the world has seen so far, compared to 20% for the US and 5% for the UK.)He cited a Hindi political slogan, taken up by the BJP in its struggle to eclipse the once-impregnable Congress Party: \u201cSinghasan khali karo ki janata aati hai,\u201d which roughly means \u201cVacate the throne, the people are coming.\u201d In Javadekar\u2019s view, for now and for years to come, responsibility for reducing global emissions must be borne by the west: \u201cThey must vacate the carbon space because we are coming. We are developing.\u201dUnderlying that insistence are some brutal facts. India is famously the world\u2019s largest democracy, and is often said to possess the world\u2019s biggest \u201cmiddle class\u201d. But in India this term has a meaning very different to its usage in the west. Navroz Dubash, the head of the climate initiative at Delhi\u2019s Centre for Policy Research, pointed out that among the richest 10% of Indians, a third live in households which have no refrigerators. In the next richest 10%, only 45% have refrigerators, and in the 10% after that, only 28%. At the mid-point of India\u2019s income distribution, the proportion of fridge owners is just 10%.Among the richest 10% of Indians, a third live in households which have no refrigeratorsDubash, a lead author of the IPCC\u2019s reports, is personally in no doubt as to the need to reduce global emissions. But he said that the limited reach of refrigerators \u2013 which India\u2019s climate would seem to make indispensable \u2013 \u201ctells you scary things. If you ask people with that level of access to energy to tighten their belts, that\u2019s a very big ask. It means that emissions inevitably have to grow.\u201d In India, he added, the number of people who consume as much energy as anyone deemed to be above the official poverty line in the developed world is, at most, a few tens of millions. Everyone else consumes less. \u201cFrom a global perspective, you have to give India carbon headroom.\u201dDubash is the principal author of a recent report that examines seven separate projections of India\u2019s future energy needs and likely emissions. All of them \u2013 from institutions including government departments, the World Bank and TERI, the Energy and Resources Institute headed until recently by Raj Pachauri, the former IPCC chairman \u2013 state that both coal-fired power and Indian greenhouse gas emissions are set to increase substantially.\u201cBy 2030, coal use is projected \u2026 to be 2.5-three times current levels,\u201d the report says. Even with stringent policy action to increase the deployment of renewables and increase energy efficiency, \u201ccoal use is projected by all but one study to be more than two times current levels\u201d. (Although India has a small nuclear industry \u2013 which provides less than 5% of its electricity \u2013 attempts to expand it have met strong political resistance. Any new nuclear capacity would take years to build and bring online, so it cannot be expected to fill the country\u2019s energy needs any time soon.)The consequence is that if, as the projections suggest, India\u2019s emissions grow between two and three times by 2030, \u201cIndia could be the second largest global emitter within the next decade.\u201d Its projected output\u00a0\u2013 between 4bn and 5.7bn tonnes of carbon dioxide each year \u2013\u00a0will surpass that of the US, which in 2011 was 5.3bn tonnes and falling, and be smaller only than China\u2019s.India\u2019s population is set to outstrip China\u2019s by 2028. But while its total emissions will be high, they will be nowhere near as great, on a per capita basis, as those of more developed countries. The Xi\u2013Obama deal was based on the notion that by 2030, the two nations will reach per capita emissions \u201cconvergence\u201d, with each person responsible for producing 14 tonnes of carbon each year. By that date, Prakash Javadekar said, the figure for the average Indian will be just 4 tonnes, a little over twice as much as today: \u201cIndia will never reach the Chinese-American convergence point. Every climate action has a cost, but I can\u2019t tax my poor.\u201d Even in 2030, Indian per capita emissions are expected to remain below the current world average.Dubash\u2019s report regards all the projections as flawed: they tend to assume sustained high GDP growth, which may not be achievable, and there is a wide divergence between them. \u201cWe don\u2019t have a very solid set of analytical inputs, and the projections are not robust,\u201d Dubash said. For that reason alone, \u201cstringent pledges would be unwise, because there is too much uncertainty\u201d.Similar opinions can be found in Delhi among people of very different political stripes. There are a few dissenters, such as Greenpeace India \u2013\u00a0which led a campaign by local people to resist the development of a new mine in Singrauli that was finally cancelled last year. Since then, the government has taken steps to curb its activities, freezing all its bank accounts on the grounds that it received donations from abroad. But Greenpeace remains on the margins of India\u2019s debate.According to Barun Mitra, the director of the Liberty Institute, a free-market think tank, \u201cin a country where a third of the population doesn\u2019t have electricity, binding emissions limits are a fairy tale\u201d.Nitin Desai is a retired UN diplomat, who organised the 1992 Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro and later represented the UN secretary-general at international climate conferences. He is now a member of a small expert panel advising Modi in the lead-up to Paris. \u201cIn a country with blackouts and so many people without access to electricity, can I really manage without developing more coal?\u201d he asked. \u201cWhy should we be accountable? The pressure should be on the countries whose per capita emissions are much higher. If you try to force India to adopt emissions targets, you will fail.\u201dThe last time US and European leaders made a serious push for a binding global deal, at the 2009 climate conference in Copenhagen, India\u2019s delegation was led by Jairam Ramesh, who did Javedekar\u2019s job in the then-Congress-led government. As a minister, he was mercilessly attacked for holding up development on environmental grounds. He said: \u201cThe idea that India can set targets in Paris is completely ridiculous and unrealistic. It will not happen. This is a difficult concept for eco-fundamentalists, and I say this as a guy who is considered in India to be very green.\u201dCopenhagen, he said, failed because of what he termed \u201cclimate evangelism. I was sitting for days with Gordon Brown, Ed Miliband, Angela Merkel, Barack Obama and Sarkozy. It was absolutely bizarre. It failed because of an excess of evangelical zeal, of which Brown was the chief proponent. It should not happen again.\u201dHe added: \u201cEven with the most aggressive strategy on nuclear, wind, hydro and solar, coal will still provide 55% of electricity consumption by 2030, which means coal consumption will be 2.5 or three times higher than at present. Mining and burning coal imposes huge environmental burdens. It\u2019s a double whammy: the more coal we extract, the more forest we lose, and that too will add to global warming.\u201dNevertheless, he concluded, \u201cI don\u2019t see any alternative other than at least to double India\u2019s coal consumption in the next 15 years.\u201dIn Singrauli, the \u201cenvironmental burdens\u201d imposed by mining and burning coal are not difficult to spot.Some of the area\u2019s power stations date back to the 1970s, and their chimneys, which are almost 300m high, belch great plumes of thick, oily smoke. Coal power station chimneys are supposed to be fitted with electrostatic precipitators, devices to stop ash being emitted into the atmosphere. But Singrauli coal\u2019s ash content is high, up to 40%, and the people who live in the shadow of the older plants say houses, vehicles and other exposed surfaces will often be coated in a thick, grey film.\u201cNo one dries their washing outside round here,\u201d said Dr KK Aggarwal, who runs a clinic in the town of Anpara, the site of four big plants, two of them old and two extremely new \u2013 the newest, Anpara D, began to come on stream this month. \u201cMany of my patients suffer from respiratory problems, such as asthma, nasal conditions, bronchitis, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. There are also skin conditions such as eczema and psoriasis.\u201d He is convinced the incidence of such conditions is higher than it should be because of the mines and power plants. \u201cPollution is everywhere.\u201dSome of Singrauli\u2019s mine and power plant operators have already taken elaborate steps to reduce discharges into the air and water. Gigantic water sprayers and closed conveyor belts carrying coal from mine to power station keep dust to a minimum. The chimneys at the newest stations, Anpara C and D, and the nearby \u201csuper critical\u201d plant run by the private firm Reliance, India\u2019s biggest company, emit no visible smoke at all \u2013 and use only three-quarters as much coal as older stations.Elsewhere, however, the noxious odour of coal dust hangs in the air, and after a few minutes outside, one senses gritty particles in the recesses of one\u2019s mouth and throat. Some of the mines still ship their coal in open trucks, coating roadside trees, ground and buildings in layers of black grime. One of the worst places is the huge yard on the outskirts of Singrauli town, where loads are transferred from the trucks to railway wagons. At the yard entrance there\u2019s a mini-roundabout, adorned with a seven-metre sculpture of a clenched fist, a monument to India\u2019s trade unions. The fist, once red, is stained the deepest black.Since 2010, the Indian government has designated Singrauli a \u201ccritically polluted area\u201d. In 2012, Delhi\u2019s prestigious Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) tested Singrauli\u2019s water supplies, along with fish from local reservoirs, human blood and hair samples. In all, the study found high levels of mercury: in one village, water from pumps contained 26 times\u00a0the maximum safe limit laid down by the Bureau of Indian Standards. Some of the hair samples had five times the \u201csafe\u201d concentration, while the fish contained twice the recommended level.The CSE study also found high incidences of vitiligo, shivers, impaired vision, and burning sensation in the limbs, all recognised effects of mercury. Continued exposure, the study reported, might lead to depression, memory loss, and kidney damage. Chandra Bushan, the CSE\u2019s deputy director and one of the study\u2019s authors, told me the source of the mercury was evident: \u201cfly ash\u201d from Singrauli\u2019s power plants.Fly ash has its uses \u2013 for example, in making cement. But for decades, untold thousands of tonnes have been collected from the chimneys, mixed with water and then discharged into the Singrauli environment in the form of grey slurry, left to dry and blow about in vast, open air \u201cash decks\u201d.Filthiest of all is the treatment of ash from Anpara A, commissioned in 1987, and Anpara B, which began to generate power seven years later. From the plants, a row of pipes carries the slurry to a series of huge ponds, where the ash is supposed to settle out. But the system does not work. From the third and final pond, the milky, polluted liquid tumbles over a grey cascade into the Rihand reservoir, the source of drinking water for the entire Singrauli region. Where the slurry meets the blue reservoir waters, there is a clear and visible boundary. Once the ash is in the reservoir, there is no way to get rid of it.In one of the ponds, Ram Pri, a landless Adivasi, was up to his waist in liquid muck, sieving out the ash in order to decant it into 33kg bags, which are used to make cement. He said he gets paid Rs50 \u2013 about 50p \u2013 per bag, and by this perilous, toxic labour, can make Rs200\u2013300 a day. His wife used to help him, \u201cbut she can\u2019t any longer: her feet, her knees and ankles are all swollen. She\u2019s not able to walk. Maybe that\u2019s because of what\u2019s in the water.\u201dHis is not the only local family to have derived little benefit from the Singrauli coal and power boom. For more than 20 years, several thousand mainly Adivasi people have been living in Simplex, a concrete shanty town adjoining the perimeter wall of the 4.7GW Vindhyachal power plant \u2013 one of the biggest in India. The colony was built to house workers who built the plant\u2019s early phases, and its high-voltage output lines run directly overhead.Astonishingly, Simplex is still not connected to the electricity grid. Its first \u201creverse osmosis\u201d water treatment unit opened only eight months ago. Until then, said Anjani Kumar Chaubey, a local activist, \u201cwe used to get severe gastric problems. The water we took from our handpumps made your skin sting, and in the monsoon, it contained worms. The whole of India gets electricity from this plant, but we are like the darkness around a candle. How can our children study? Sometimes, when there is a lot of wind, the whole area gets covered with ash. A lot of our people get sick.\u201dIn Chilkantanbasti, where 7,000 people live close to a 35-year old coal plant at Shaktinagar, run by the state-owned National Thermal Power Corporation, there is electricity. But the air is some of the region\u2019s dirtiest: \u201cA man gets up here in the morning and he eats coal dust,\u201d said Umar Kand, 19. \u201cHe goes to bed at night, and he\u2019s eating coal dust still. If you put anything out anything out round here, it will have a film of ash within an hour.\u201d The streets stink also of sewage: there is no sanitation, and despite a promise by NTPC two years ago, no water treatment unit. There are three public toilets, but none of them work. Kand shrugged: \u201cWe go in the forest.\u201dChilkatanbasti is exposed to another hazard. There are now strict rules governing the landscaping and afforestation of mine overburden piles, which must be split into tiers and divided by broad, flat \u201cbenches\u201d, with no slope steeper than 37 degrees. When a giant pile from the Kharia mine that looms over the village was created, these rules did not exist, and the result is a tottering brown mountain, its slopes strewn with boulders the size of cars, its surface deeply etched by the water channels that form each monsoon.\u201cWhen it rains, material comes down towards us,\u201d said Renu, a local woman who preferred not to give her surname. \u201cThe police have even come to tell us we should evacuate our houses in case it slips. I\u2019ve seen the rocks falling down the slopes. If it ever went altogether, it would be like a tsunami. But how can we leave our homes?\u201d* * *Speaking to Time magazine earlier this month, Prime Minister Modi failed to answer a question as to whether India would agree any binding emissions curb in Paris. Instead, he waxed lyrical about Indians\u2019 love for nature, a theme echoed by environment minister Javadekar, who insisted: \u201cGrowth and environmental protection are not against each other. We want a clean India, a green India. Clean air is our birthright\u201d \u2013 a statement that any visitor to Delhi, which currently endures the world\u2019s worst particulate air pollution, will appreciate.Yet these may not be empty words. For among the BJP government\u2019s most ambitious acts has been to quintuple the 2022 targets set for non-fossil energy by the previous regime, to 175GW \u2013 almost six times its current level. The most ambitious target of all is that for solar energy, which is meant to rise from just 3GW now to 100GW, in only seven years. No country has ever built solar at anything approaching this pace, and it would leave India with three times as much solar capacity as Germany \u2013 which over the course of decades, has deployed 38.5GW, much more than anywhere else in Europe, and more than twice as much as the United States. Many people, Dubash said, regard the target as \u201caspirational\u201d: the sheer manufacturing requirement, likely to come at first mainly from China, is huge.On the other hand, for very obvious reasons, photovoltaic solar energy is a much more viable proposition in India than it is in northern European countries such as Germany, or for that matter, Britain. A well-sited solar panel in India will produce energy up to 22% of the time, as against perhaps 8% in the UK.Ratul Puri, chairman of Hindustan Powerprojects Ltd, a multibillion-pound company that has invested heavily in both coal and solar, pointed out that solar has a further local advantage: \u201cSolar generation perfectly overlays the demand cycle.\u201d In other words, the hot, dry and sunny months will see solar output peak, just as the demand for irrigation pumps, fans and air conditioning is also at its greatest. During the cooling monsoon, solar output plummets, but so does demand: there is no need for irrigation when it\u2019s pouring with rain.\u201cCan we have 100% of energy in India from solar?\u201d Puri asked. \u201cNo, because I still want to be able to turn on my lights at 9pm at night, when solar is generating nothing. But 15, 20% of our energy coming from solar: we can easily do this in the very near future.\u201dEven in fertile, intensely farmed states such as Punjab, 15% of the land is arid, and unsuitable for irrigation \u2013 but ideal for solar panels. Meanwhile, in distinct contrast to Germany or Britain, the levelised cost of solar energy per 1KW/hr unit, averaged out over 25 years, is already close to \u201cgrid parity\u201d, simply because Indian solar panels are so much more productive. Government subsidies have in the past been provided for small-scale users \u2013\u00a0though these were recently cut, from 30% to 15% of installation costs, while only 15% those who deployed solar panels ever claimed them anyway. In India, even without subsidy, solar is becoming competitive with electricity from coal.According to Puri, the price of solar electricity has fallen from Rs13 to Rs6.5 per 1KW/hr unit over the past five years \u2013 very close to the Rs6 cost of thermal power from coal. However, recent reforms to the finance of long-term infrastructure debt are reducing the gap still further. Puri added: \u201cEveryone expects interest rates [currently a ruinous 10- 12%] to come down. If that happens, solar is going to hit grid parity, irrespective of any technical discoveries, within the next two years.\u201dA well-sited solar panel in India will produce energy up to 22% of the time, as against perhaps 8% in the UKIn the past five years, Puri\u2019s balance sheet has been split, two to one, in favour of coal over renewables. He said that over the next five years, he intends to reverse that balance, with \u00a31bn going to coal and close to \u00a33bn to solar \u2013 making Hindustan Powerprojects easily India\u2019s biggest renewables investor.Behind that decision is the fact that during the growth slowdown after 2011, very few new coal power plants were commissioned, while most of the private power firms which have come to dominate the industry are financially \u201cdistressed\u201d.The reasons are complex. They partly stem from the chaotic and indebted state of the \u201cdiscoms\u201d, or distribution companies, the middlemen in India\u2019s electricity industry, which buy power from generators and sell it to consumers. Artificially low tariffs imposed by state governments mean that discoms deliberately restrict supply, preferring to make power cuts than to increase their losses by selling power at prices below its purchase cost. There has also been a widespread failure to take action against rampant electricity theft in informal urban settlements. The upshot is that most coal plants are operating at only 60% capacity \u2013 for the time being, there is a surprising degree of slack in the system.But Puri said that if the economy \u201cdoes start to roar again\u201d in the way that Modi intends, the country will face a serious power shortfall by 2017. Even if new coal plants started to be planned today, they would not avert this problem: it usually takes seven-to-10 years for a freshly conceived coal plant to become operational.On the other hand, solar projects can typically be realised within 12 to 18 months. \u201cThe inactivity in commissioning new thermal plants over the last three years leaves India no choice but to go out and build solar capacity. That means India can overcome the crisis of electricity shortages, have cleaner air, have a more stable grid and go say nice things at the climate change negotiations in Paris.\u201dWithout storage technology far in advance of what exists today, coal will still have to provide India\u2019s \u201cbaseload\u201d: lights and air conditioning at night; power for the factories Modi wants to see built. But beyond 2030, anything is possible. \u201cI think the entire energy landscape is going to change in the next 30 years,\u201d Puri said. \u201cStorage is going to revolutionise it. I also think solar energy will become much cheaper than coal. So why would you build a coal thermal plant?\u201dThere are other solar niches. The unreliability of India\u2019s grid power means the country possesses a staggering 80GW of expensive, off-grid, liquid-fuel generating capacity, most from highly polluting diesel generators. Typically, consumers pay about Rs18 per unit for it when their grid power goes off \u2013 three times the usual price.In Noida, a burgeoning satellite city on the outskirts of the Delhi megalopolis, Kushagara Nandan runs Sunsource Energy, a solar start-up. Educated in the US, he cut his teeth on a similar outfit based in New Jersey. Last year, Sunsource revenues quintupled, to \u00a36m.Part of his business is supplying rooftop units which, when the sun is shining, can fill the gap caused by grid outages far more cheaply than diesel: \u201cWe synchronise grid, diesel and solar together. In Delhi alone, the potential for rooftop solar is at least 1.5GW.\u201d One of his projects, rated at 250KW, adorns the Habitat Centre, a complex that includes conference venues, auditoria, restaurants and art galleries. Another 500KW array has allowed a school to save 20% on its power bills.Cheap, off-grid solar also has great potential in India\u2019s vast rural hinterland. Last year, a solar project to desalinate briny ground water from wells and power irrigation pumps at a village in the southern state of Andhra Pradesh, which Sunsource helped develop with an Indian NGO, was given a Google Global Impact Challenge award. It worked so well that it has now been rolled out in five different villages.Like Ratul Puri, Nandan is a businessman. He is in solar primarily to make money. He urged caution: \u201cUnrealistic expectations must not be raised. It\u2019s crucial to realise that solar must be part of the mix \u2013 it cannot substitute for other sources. For the foreseeable future, India doesn\u2019t have a choice between coal and solar. It needs both.\u201dPragmatism of this kind of now characterises other parts of Indian discourse over energy and the environment. There is, for example, little dispute that the pollution caused in earlier phases of mining and power generation at Singrauli is unacceptable. \u201cThere\u2019s about 80GW \u2013 40% of India\u2019s capacity \u2013 that is either in such disrepair or so dirty that it needs to be replaced,\u201d said Puri. \u201cThe open trucks transporting coal and so on are a short-term phenomenon. No one in their right mind would transport coal by truck.\u201dFor the past two years, Ashwani Dubey, a Delhi lawyer who was brought up in Singrauli, has been fighting a case to force the mine and power plant operators to clean up their act in the National Green Tribunal, a powerful judicial body that rules on environmental matters. In written evidence to the court issued in March, India\u2019s Central Pollution Control Board recommended stringent measures, including the end of ash discharge into the Rihand reservoir by 31 July, and much stricter monitoring of air and water quality. Where necessary, remedial measures should be taken within six months \u2013 to be funded on the \u201cpolluter pays principle\u201d. Within a few months, the open coal trucks are supposed to be gone \u2013 replaced by a closed \u201cmerry-go-round\u201d railway linking mines to power plants.Northern Coalfields now has an environmental team in Singrauli, led by BK Sharma. As parts of the mines are worked out, it \u201cback-fills\u201d the overburden in an effort restore the landscape, and replants native species: \u201cWe are trying to recreate the forest, so that when we leave, it will merge into the ecology of the area,\u201d Sharma said.It sounds utopian. But trees in central India grow fast, and on a visit to what was a part of the Nigahi mine, it was hard to distinguish between remediated pit and original forest. Meanwhile, following a Green Tribunal order, nine village water treatment units have been installed this year. By the end of June, a further 15 are meant to be operational.There are further developments at the national level. Under the new mining law, a third of the money raised by the mining royalty \u2013 a 15% levy on all mine revenue, payable to state governments \u2013 must be given to communities in mine-affected areas, to be spent as they determine. The details have yet to be worked out. But according to Chandra Bushan of the Centre for Science and Environment, \u201cthis is a revolutionary development with huge implications for the entire developing world\u201d.It is to be applied immediately, to old mines and new, and should mean the \u201cdarkness around the candle\u201d seen in places such as Simplex will end. \u201cSingrauli could become one of the richest districts in the country,\u201d said Bushan. \u201cNow we must make sure the money is spent on the right things.\u201dMeanwhile, the government has just introduced new pollution standards for coal plant technology \u2013 as strict as any in the world. \u201cYou will no longer be able to burn coal cheaply and pollute,\u201d said Bushan. Under these rules, old plants such as Shaktinagar and Anpara A will have to be scrapped.Bushan warned that better regulations would not necessarily be enforced. \u201cThe arm of the law is not always long in India. But there are certain trends that are positive. I am impressed quite frankly with the Modi government on these issues. They\u2019ve done more than I expected.\u201dWhere does all this leave India in the run-up to Paris? According to Navroz Dubash, what India and other developing countries need are not rigid emissions targets, but programmes designed to \u201cbend the curve\u201d \u2013 to make emissions lower in the five years after 2020 than they would have been otherwise. The changing format of UN climate negotiations makes this easier to achieve. The diplomatic focus now is not on emissions targets but what are termed INDCs \u2013\u00a0each country\u2019s \u201cintended nationally determined contribution\u201d. These, Dubash said, \u201cprovide an opportunity to dissolve the barrier between development and climate needs\u201d.Measures Dubash would like to see in India\u2019s INDC include its targets for solar energy, better building standards, shifting freight from road to rail, low-energy ceiling fans, and widespread use of LEDs. Most are already in the pipeline: Javadekar said India is about to announce a massive plan to replace city street lights with low-energy LEDs.That approach may allow India to plot the delicate course between environmental and developmental needs. \u201cAs an old UN hand, I must tell you that we only distinguish between success and outstanding success,\u201d Nitin Desai joked. \u201c2015 will be a success. The issue is how great it will be.\u201d\u2022 Follow the Guardian Long Read on Twitter: @gdnlongread", "tags": ["India", "Fossil fuels", "Energy", "Coal", "Solar power", "Renewable energy", "Environment", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Global development", "Natural resources and development"], "title": "Why India is captured by carbon | David Rose"},{"date": "2015-05-27T05:00:29Z", "country": "india", "content": "Beneath a sky made opaque by billowing dust, a mechanised shovel driver steered his vehicle toward the vast wall of an open coal mine. It was the middle of a central Indian summer afternoon, and outside, the temperature had hit 45C. Up in the cab, 15 metres above the black, shiny ground, it was comfortable, air-conditioned.The driver tipped the steel-toothed rim of the shovel\u2019s bucket downwards, then slammed it into the coal seam wall in front of him. A few hours earlier, a drilling rig mounted on caterpillar tracks had drilled deep holes into the coal from the flat ground above, and filled them with explosives. Their detonation broke the coal into diggable chunks, some of them pebbles, others a metre across.The seam being worked was 20 metres thick, and lay some 300 metres beneath what was once the ground\u2019s surface \u2013 the deeper of two black stripes of coal. Overlying the seams, until it was blasted and dug away, were much larger quantities of grey-brown shale, what miners call \u201coverburden\u201d. Having been stripped from the coal, it lay stacked up in mountainous piles on either side of the mine, the walls of an artificial Grand Canyon. The surface area of this mine, Dudhichua, is 16 square\u00a0kilometres.In the year ending March 2015, Dudhichua produced 15m tonnes of coal \u2013 more than the UK\u2019s entire remaining production. But it is only one of 16 mines in the Singrauli coalfield, which spans parts of two districts in Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. All but one are owned by the state-run Northern Coalfields Ltd, a subsidiary of Coal India, one of the country\u2019s biggest firms. As is the case with other Indian coalfields, Singrauli is home to numerous coal-fired thermal electricity plants, some almost on the doorstep of the mines. Their current aggregate capacity is about 20 gigawatts, nearly 10% of India\u2019s total national generating capacity. (By comparison, peak electricity demand for the entire UK is only 57GW.)Singrauli may be one of India\u2019s biggest energy hubs, but it is also isolated. Apart from the mines and power stations, the coalfield is home to a handful of towns, poverty-stricken villages and some prosperous corporate \u201ccolonies\u201d, with their own schools, sports fields and clinics. To visit the area involves a 220km drive from the nearest airport at Varanasi, on a chaotic road that often lacks a proper surface: the journey\u00a0can easily take eight hours. Phone signals and internet\u00a0are intermittent. The only communications that really work are the high-voltage power lines that carry Singrauli\u2019s output to the teeming cities of northern India\u2019s plains. Last year, the coalfield\u2019s total production was about 87m tonnes. (When the British coal industry began to decline with the outbreak of the 1984 miners\u2019 strike, it was producing about 130m tonnes annually.)Singrauli\u2019s significance \u2013 and that of the subcontinent\u2019s many other coalfields, which span the length and breadth of\u00a0India, with further large reserves in Pakistan \u2013 extends globally. In 2013, the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) reported that in order to restrict the increase of world average temperatures to 2C above pre-industrial times, the world must adopt a strict \u201ccarbon budget\u201d for emissions. According to the IPCC, the current rate of fossil fuel burning will exhaust this within 25 years, after which fuels must either be left unexploited, or have their emissions kept from the atmosphere by carbon capture and storage.India has the world\u2019s fifth-largest coal reserves \u2013\u00a0and very few cleaner fossil fuels, such as natural gas. Its leaders are also determined to spread the benefits of economic\u00a0development more widely among its population of almost 1.3bn people \u2013\u00a0one third of whom still have no access to\u00a0electricity.Anil Swarup, the permanent secretary at the coal ministry in Delhi, said in an interview that last year Indian production from both private and state-owned mines was 620m tonnes, more than 85% of it from open-cast workings. A further 400m tonnes were imported. At Singrauli and elsewhere, he added, production is set to increase rapidly, with strong encouragement from the rightwing Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, which swept to power last year. Modi is determined to restore the sustained GDP growth rate of 8-10% that India enjoyed for a decade until 2011.\u201cWe are looking to double Indian coal production by 2020,\u201d Swarup said, \u201cand to reduce reliance on imports.\u201d Beyond that date, he said production would continue to rise to 1.5bn tonnes a year, with most of this being burnt in coal-fired power plants. In the past six months, the government has given environmental clearance to 41 new mining projects. The consequence, Swarup said, is that from now until 2020, \u201ca new mine will be opened every month. You have to work on the assumption of requirement, and in India, there is a need for power.\u201dLast August, the Indian supreme court ruled that more than 200 mining licences awarded by governments before 2010 were illegal, forcing the cancellation of numerous planned projects. The system that its judgment set aside had already been shown to be rife with corruption. The most prominent casualty of India\u2019s \u201cCoalgate\u201d scandal was the former Congress prime minister Manmohan Singh, who last month came close to criminal indictment.Enshrined in a law enacted by Modi\u2019s government is a new scheme under which coal blocks are auctioned to the highest bidder. It hugely incentivises state governments to foster new mines. According to Swarup, the auctions of the 209 blocks that have been sold off to date have raised about \u00a317bn \u2013 money that will swell state coffers for the next 30 years: \u201cThis will change the states\u2019 economies. They were really strapped for money. Now they will get it.\u201dMany of the richest untapped reserves lie in heavily forested areas, some near Singrauli in Madhya Pradesh, but mainly in Chattisgarh and Jharkand in central India. There, those whose land will be subject to \u201cacquisition\u201d are some of India\u2019s poorest inhabitants, many of them Adivasis \u2013\u00a0members of indigenous tribes.Swarup insisted that preserving the environment was a high priority for those overseeing India\u2019s new coal boom. \u201cSeeing how the environment can be maintained is a crucial part of this. Whenever I talk to my officers, I say the environment is non-negotiable. But there is no viable alternative to developing more coal. Energy requirements have to be met.\u201dTo many western environmentalists, who are determined to see a binding global deal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions at the UN climate change conference in Paris later this year, India\u2019s rising coal use is anathema. However, across a broad range of Delhi politicians and policymakers there is near unanimity. There is, they say, simply no possibility that at this stage in its development India will agree to any form of emissions cap, let alone a cut. Even a pledge of the kind made by China\u2019s leader Xi Jinping after talks with US president\u00a0Barack Obama last year, that Chinese emissions would rise to a peak in 2030 and thereafter decline, would be out of the question.This issue \u2013 the balance between the environment and growth \u2013 arises in every developing country. But India\u2019s sheer size means that its resolution is of exceptional significance.Modi has spoken repeatedly of India\u2019s \u201cright to growth\u201d. Prakash Javadekar, the cabinet minister responsible for the environment, forests and climate change, enlarged on this in blunt terms, speaking in his office at the Rajya Sabha, the upper house of India\u2019s parliament: \u201cOur emissions will grow because we are not developed and we have a right, every person on this Earth has a right, to develop. If today the world is 0.8C warmer [than it was in pre-industrial times], it is not my fault. It is the historical responsibility of those who started emitting with the industrial revolution.\u201d (However, largely because of its sheer size and population, India is one of the ten biggest historical emitters, having contributed around 7% to the warming the world has seen so far, compared to 20% for the US and 5% for the UK.)He cited a Hindi political slogan, taken up by the BJP in its struggle to eclipse the once-impregnable Congress Party: \u201cSinghasan khali karo ki janata aati hai,\u201d which roughly means \u201cVacate the throne, the people are coming.\u201d In Javadekar\u2019s view, for now and for years to come, responsibility for reducing global emissions must be borne by the west: \u201cThey must vacate the carbon space because we are coming. We are developing.\u201dUnderlying that insistence are some brutal facts. India is famously the world\u2019s largest democracy, and is often said to possess the world\u2019s biggest \u201cmiddle class\u201d. But in India this term has a meaning very different to its usage in the west. Navroz Dubash, the head of the climate initiative at Delhi\u2019s Centre for Policy Research, pointed out that among the richest 10% of Indians, a third live in households which have no refrigerators. In the next richest 10%, only 45% have refrigerators, and in the 10% after that, only 28%. At the mid-point of India\u2019s income distribution, the proportion of fridge owners is just 10%.Among the richest 10% of Indians, a third live in households which have no refrigeratorsDubash, a lead author of the IPCC\u2019s reports, is personally in no doubt as to the need to reduce global emissions. But he said that the limited reach of refrigerators \u2013 which India\u2019s climate would seem to make indispensable \u2013 \u201ctells you scary things. If you ask people with that level of access to energy to tighten their belts, that\u2019s a very big ask. It means that emissions inevitably have to grow.\u201d In India, he added, the number of people who consume as much energy as anyone deemed to be above the official poverty line in the developed world is, at most, a few tens of millions. Everyone else consumes less. \u201cFrom a global perspective, you have to give India carbon headroom.\u201dDubash is the principal author of a recent report that examines seven separate projections of India\u2019s future energy needs and likely emissions. All of them \u2013 from institutions including government departments, the World Bank and TERI, the Energy and Resources Institute headed until recently by Raj Pachauri, the former IPCC chairman \u2013 state that both coal-fired power and Indian greenhouse gas emissions are set to increase substantially.\u201cBy 2030, coal use is projected \u2026 to be 2.5-three times current levels,\u201d the report says. Even with stringent policy action to increase the deployment of renewables and increase energy efficiency, \u201ccoal use is projected by all but one study to be more than two times current levels\u201d. (Although India has a small nuclear industry \u2013 which provides less than 5% of its electricity \u2013 attempts to expand it have met strong political resistance. Any new nuclear capacity would take years to build and bring online, so it cannot be expected to fill the country\u2019s energy needs any time soon.)The consequence is that if, as the projections suggest, India\u2019s emissions grow between two and three times by 2030, \u201cIndia could be the second largest global emitter within the next decade.\u201d Its projected output\u00a0\u2013 between 4bn and 5.7bn tonnes of carbon dioxide each year \u2013\u00a0will surpass that of the US, which in 2011 was 5.3bn tonnes and falling, and be smaller only than China\u2019s.India\u2019s population is set to outstrip China\u2019s by 2028. But while its total emissions will be high, they will be nowhere near as great, on a per capita basis, as those of more developed countries. The Xi\u2013Obama deal was based on the notion that by 2030, the two nations will reach per capita emissions \u201cconvergence\u201d, with each person responsible for producing 14 tonnes of carbon each year. By that date, Prakash Javadekar said, the figure for the average Indian will be just 4 tonnes, a little over twice as much as today: \u201cIndia will never reach the Chinese-American convergence point. Every climate action has a cost, but I can\u2019t tax my poor.\u201d Even in 2030, Indian per capita emissions are expected to remain below the current world average.Dubash\u2019s report regards all the projections as flawed: they tend to assume sustained high GDP growth, which may not be achievable, and there is a wide divergence between them. \u201cWe don\u2019t have a very solid set of analytical inputs, and the projections are not robust,\u201d Dubash said. For that reason alone, \u201cstringent pledges would be unwise, because there is too much uncertainty\u201d.Similar opinions can be found in Delhi among people of very different political stripes. There are a few dissenters, such as Greenpeace India \u2013\u00a0which led a campaign by local people to resist the development of a new mine in Singrauli that was finally cancelled last year. Since then, the government has taken steps to curb its activities, freezing all its bank accounts on the grounds that it received donations from abroad. But Greenpeace remains on the margins of India\u2019s debate.According to Barun Mitra, the director of the Liberty Institute, a free-market think tank, \u201cin a country where a third of the population doesn\u2019t have electricity, binding emissions limits are a fairy tale\u201d.Nitin Desai is a retired UN diplomat, who organised the 1992 Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro and later represented the UN secretary-general at international climate conferences. He is now a member of a small expert panel advising Modi in the lead-up to Paris. \u201cIn a country with blackouts and so many people without access to electricity, can I really manage without developing more coal?\u201d he asked. \u201cWhy should we be accountable? The pressure should be on the countries whose per capita emissions are much higher. If you try to force India to adopt emissions targets, you will fail.\u201dThe last time US and European leaders made a serious push for a binding global deal, at the 2009 climate conference in Copenhagen, India\u2019s delegation was led by Jairam Ramesh, who did Javedekar\u2019s job in the then-Congress-led government. As a minister, he was mercilessly attacked for holding up development on environmental grounds. He said: \u201cThe idea that India can set targets in Paris is completely ridiculous and unrealistic. It will not happen. This is a difficult concept for eco-fundamentalists, and I say this as a guy who is considered in India to be very green.\u201dCopenhagen, he said, failed because of what he termed \u201cclimate evangelism. I was sitting for days with Gordon Brown, Ed Miliband, Angela Merkel, Barack Obama and Sarkozy. It was absolutely bizarre. It failed because of an excess of evangelical zeal, of which Brown was the chief proponent. It should not happen again.\u201dHe added: \u201cEven with the most aggressive strategy on nuclear, wind, hydro and solar, coal will still provide 55% of electricity consumption by 2030, which means coal consumption will be 2.5 or three times higher than at present. Mining and burning coal imposes huge environmental burdens. It\u2019s a double whammy: the more coal we extract, the more forest we lose, and that too will add to global warming.\u201dNevertheless, he concluded, \u201cI don\u2019t see any alternative other than at least to double India\u2019s coal consumption in the next 15 years.\u201dIn Singrauli, the \u201cenvironmental burdens\u201d imposed by mining and burning coal are not difficult to spot.Some of the area\u2019s power stations date back to the 1970s, and their chimneys, which are almost 300m high, belch great plumes of thick, oily smoke. Coal power station chimneys are supposed to be fitted with electrostatic precipitators, devices to stop ash being emitted into the atmosphere. But Singrauli coal\u2019s ash content is high, up to 40%, and the people who live in the shadow of the older plants say houses, vehicles and other exposed surfaces will often be coated in a thick, grey film.\u201cNo one dries their washing outside round here,\u201d said Dr KK Aggarwal, who runs a clinic in the town of Anpara, the site of four big plants, two of them old and two extremely new \u2013 the newest, Anpara D, began to come on stream this month. \u201cMany of my patients suffer from respiratory problems, such as asthma, nasal conditions, bronchitis, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. There are also skin conditions such as eczema and psoriasis.\u201d He is convinced the incidence of such conditions is higher than it should be because of the mines and power plants. \u201cPollution is everywhere.\u201dSome of Singrauli\u2019s mine and power plant operators have already taken elaborate steps to reduce discharges into the air and water. Gigantic water sprayers and closed conveyor belts carrying coal from mine to power station keep dust to a minimum. The chimneys at the newest stations, Anpara C and D, and the nearby \u201csuper critical\u201d plant run by the private firm Reliance, India\u2019s biggest company, emit no visible smoke at all \u2013 and use only three-quarters as much coal as older stations.Elsewhere, however, the noxious odour of coal dust hangs in the air, and after a few minutes outside, one senses gritty particles in the recesses of one\u2019s mouth and throat. Some of the mines still ship their coal in open trucks, coating roadside trees, ground and buildings in layers of black grime. One of the worst places is the huge yard on the outskirts of Singrauli town, where loads are transferred from the trucks to railway wagons. At the yard entrance there\u2019s a mini-roundabout, adorned with a seven-metre sculpture of a clenched fist, a monument to India\u2019s trade unions. The fist, once red, is stained the deepest black.Since 2010, the Indian government has designated Singrauli a \u201ccritically polluted area\u201d. In 2012, Delhi\u2019s prestigious Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) tested Singrauli\u2019s water supplies, along with fish from local reservoirs, human blood and hair samples. In all, the study found high levels of mercury: in one village, water from pumps contained 26 times\u00a0the maximum safe limit laid down by the Bureau of Indian Standards. Some of the hair samples had five times the \u201csafe\u201d concentration, while the fish contained twice the recommended level.The CSE study also found high incidences of vitiligo, shivers, impaired vision, and burning sensation in the limbs, all recognised effects of mercury. Continued exposure, the study reported, might lead to depression, memory loss, and kidney damage. Chandra Bushan, the CSE\u2019s deputy director and one of the study\u2019s authors, told me the source of the mercury was evident: \u201cfly ash\u201d from Singrauli\u2019s power plants.Fly ash has its uses \u2013 for example, in making cement. But for decades, untold thousands of tonnes have been collected from the chimneys, mixed with water and then discharged into the Singrauli environment in the form of grey slurry, left to dry and blow about in vast, open air \u201cash decks\u201d.Filthiest of all is the treatment of ash from Anpara A, commissioned in 1987, and Anpara B, which began to generate power seven years later. From the plants, a row of pipes carries the slurry to a series of huge ponds, where the ash is supposed to settle out. But the system does not work. From the third and final pond, the milky, polluted liquid tumbles over a grey cascade into the Rihand reservoir, the source of drinking water for the entire Singrauli region. Where the slurry meets the blue reservoir waters, there is a clear and visible boundary. Once the ash is in the reservoir, there is no way to get rid of it.In one of the ponds, Ram Pri, a landless Adivasi, was up to his waist in liquid muck, sieving out the ash in order to decant it into 33kg bags, which are used to make cement. He said he gets paid Rs50 \u2013 about 50p \u2013 per bag, and by this perilous, toxic labour, can make Rs200\u2013300 a day. His wife used to help him, \u201cbut she can\u2019t any longer: her feet, her knees and ankles are all swollen. She\u2019s not able to walk. Maybe that\u2019s because of what\u2019s in the water.\u201dHis is not the only local family to have derived little benefit from the Singrauli coal and power boom. For more than 20 years, several thousand mainly Adivasi people have been living in Simplex, a concrete shanty town adjoining the perimeter wall of the 4.7GW Vindhyachal power plant \u2013 one of the biggest in India. The colony was built to house workers who built the plant\u2019s early phases, and its high-voltage output lines run directly overhead.Astonishingly, Simplex is still not connected to the electricity grid. Its first \u201creverse osmosis\u201d water treatment unit opened only eight months ago. Until then, said Anjani Kumar Chaubey, a local activist, \u201cwe used to get severe gastric problems. The water we took from our handpumps made your skin sting, and in the monsoon, it contained worms. The whole of India gets electricity from this plant, but we are like the darkness around a candle. How can our children study? Sometimes, when there is a lot of wind, the whole area gets covered with ash. A lot of our people get sick.\u201dIn Chilkantanbasti, where 7,000 people live close to a 35-year old coal plant at Shaktinagar, run by the state-owned National Thermal Power Corporation, there is electricity. But the air is some of the region\u2019s dirtiest: \u201cA man gets up here in the morning and he eats coal dust,\u201d said Umar Kand, 19. \u201cHe goes to bed at night, and he\u2019s eating coal dust still. If you put anything out anything out round here, it will have a film of ash within an hour.\u201d The streets stink also of sewage: there is no sanitation, and despite a promise by NTPC two years ago, no water treatment unit. There are three public toilets, but none of them work. Kand shrugged: \u201cWe go in the forest.\u201dChilkatanbasti is exposed to another hazard. There are now strict rules governing the landscaping and afforestation of mine overburden piles, which must be split into tiers and divided by broad, flat \u201cbenches\u201d, with no slope steeper than 37 degrees. When a giant pile from the Kharia mine that looms over the village was created, these rules did not exist, and the result is a tottering brown mountain, its slopes strewn with boulders the size of cars, its surface deeply etched by the water channels that form each monsoon.\u201cWhen it rains, material comes down towards us,\u201d said Renu, a local woman who preferred not to give her surname. \u201cThe police have even come to tell us we should evacuate our houses in case it slips. I\u2019ve seen the rocks falling down the slopes. If it ever went altogether, it would be like a tsunami. But how can we leave our homes?\u201d* * *Speaking to Time magazine earlier this month, Prime Minister Modi failed to answer a question as to whether India would agree any binding emissions curb in Paris. Instead, he waxed lyrical about Indians\u2019 love for nature, a theme echoed by environment minister Javadekar, who insisted: \u201cGrowth and environmental protection are not against each other. We want a clean India, a green India. Clean air is our birthright\u201d \u2013 a statement that any visitor to Delhi, which currently endures the world\u2019s worst particulate air pollution, will appreciate.Yet these may not be empty words. For among the BJP government\u2019s most ambitious acts has been to quintuple the 2022 targets set for non-fossil energy by the previous regime, to 175GW \u2013 almost six times its current level. The most ambitious target of all is that for solar energy, which is meant to rise from just 3GW now to 100GW, in only seven years. No country has ever built solar at anything approaching this pace, and it would leave India with three times as much solar capacity as Germany \u2013 which over the course of decades, has deployed 38.5GW, much more than anywhere else in Europe, and more than twice as much as the United States. Many people, Dubash said, regard the target as \u201caspirational\u201d: the sheer manufacturing requirement, likely to come at first mainly from China, is huge.On the other hand, for very obvious reasons, photovoltaic solar energy is a much more viable proposition in India than it is in northern European countries such as Germany, or for that matter, Britain. A well-sited solar panel in India will produce energy up to 22% of the time, as against perhaps 8% in the UK.Ratul Puri, chairman of Hindustan Powerprojects Ltd, a multibillion-pound company that has invested heavily in both coal and solar, pointed out that solar has a further local advantage: \u201cSolar generation perfectly overlays the demand cycle.\u201d In other words, the hot, dry and sunny months will see solar output peak, just as the demand for irrigation pumps, fans and air conditioning is also at its greatest. During the cooling monsoon, solar output plummets, but so does demand: there is no need for irrigation when it\u2019s pouring with rain.\u201cCan we have 100% of energy in India from solar?\u201d Puri asked. \u201cNo, because I still want to be able to turn on my lights at 9pm at night, when solar is generating nothing. But 15, 20% of our energy coming from solar: we can easily do this in the very near future.\u201dEven in fertile, intensely farmed states such as Punjab, 15% of the land is arid, and unsuitable for irrigation \u2013 but ideal for solar panels. Meanwhile, in distinct contrast to Germany or Britain, the levelised cost of solar energy per 1KW/hr unit, averaged out over 25 years, is already close to \u201cgrid parity\u201d, simply because Indian solar panels are so much more productive. Government subsidies have in the past been provided for small-scale users \u2013\u00a0though these were recently cut, from 30% to 15% of installation costs, while only 15% those who deployed solar panels ever claimed them anyway. In India, even without subsidy, solar is becoming competitive with electricity from coal.According to Puri, the price of solar electricity has fallen from Rs13 to Rs6.5 per 1KW/hr unit over the past five years \u2013 very close to the Rs6 cost of thermal power from coal. However, recent reforms to the finance of long-term infrastructure debt are reducing the gap still further. Puri added: \u201cEveryone expects interest rates [currently a ruinous 10- 12%] to come down. If that happens, solar is going to hit grid parity, irrespective of any technical discoveries, within the next two years.\u201dA well-sited solar panel in India will produce energy up to 22% of the time, as against perhaps 8% in the UKIn the past five years, Puri\u2019s balance sheet has been split, two to one, in favour of coal over renewables. He said that over the next five years, he intends to reverse that balance, with \u00a31bn going to coal and close to \u00a33bn to solar \u2013 making Hindustan Powerprojects easily India\u2019s biggest renewables investor.Behind that decision is the fact that during the growth slowdown after 2011, very few new coal power plants were commissioned, while most of the private power firms which have come to dominate the industry are financially \u201cdistressed\u201d.The reasons are complex. They partly stem from the chaotic and indebted state of the \u201cdiscoms\u201d, or distribution companies, the middlemen in India\u2019s electricity industry, which buy power from generators and sell it to consumers. Artificially low tariffs imposed by state governments mean that discoms deliberately restrict supply, preferring to make power cuts than to increase their losses by selling power at prices below its purchase cost. There has also been a widespread failure to take action against rampant electricity theft in informal urban settlements. The upshot is that most coal plants are operating at only 60% capacity \u2013 for the time being, there is a surprising degree of slack in the system.But Puri said that if the economy \u201cdoes start to roar again\u201d in the way that Modi intends, the country will face a serious power shortfall by 2017. Even if new coal plants started to be planned today, they would not avert this problem: it usually takes seven-to-10 years for a freshly conceived coal plant to become operational.On the other hand, solar projects can typically be realised within 12 to 18 months. \u201cThe inactivity in commissioning new thermal plants over the last three years leaves India no choice but to go out and build solar capacity. That means India can overcome the crisis of electricity shortages, have cleaner air, have a more stable grid and go say nice things at the climate change negotiations in Paris.\u201dWithout storage technology far in advance of what exists today, coal will still have to provide India\u2019s \u201cbaseload\u201d: lights and air conditioning at night; power for the factories Modi wants to see built. But beyond 2030, anything is possible. \u201cI think the entire energy landscape is going to change in the next 30 years,\u201d Puri said. \u201cStorage is going to revolutionise it. I also think solar energy will become much cheaper than coal. So why would you build a coal thermal plant?\u201dThere are other solar niches. The unreliability of India\u2019s grid power means the country possesses a staggering 80GW of expensive, off-grid, liquid-fuel generating capacity, most from highly polluting diesel generators. Typically, consumers pay about Rs18 per unit for it when their grid power goes off \u2013 three times the usual price.In Noida, a burgeoning satellite city on the outskirts of the Delhi megalopolis, Kushagara Nandan runs Sunsource Energy, a solar start-up. Educated in the US, he cut his teeth on a similar outfit based in New Jersey. Last year, Sunsource revenues quintupled, to \u00a36m.Part of his business is supplying rooftop units which, when the sun is shining, can fill the gap caused by grid outages far more cheaply than diesel: \u201cWe synchronise grid, diesel and solar together. In Delhi alone, the potential for rooftop solar is at least 1.5GW.\u201d One of his projects, rated at 250KW, adorns the Habitat Centre, a complex that includes conference venues, auditoria, restaurants and art galleries. Another 500KW array has allowed a school to save 20% on its power bills.Cheap, off-grid solar also has great potential in India\u2019s vast rural hinterland. Last year, a solar project to desalinate briny ground water from wells and power irrigation pumps at a village in the southern state of Andhra Pradesh, which Sunsource helped develop with an Indian NGO, was given a Google Global Impact Challenge award. It worked so well that it has now been rolled out in five different villages.Like Ratul Puri, Nandan is a businessman. He is in solar primarily to make money. He urged caution: \u201cUnrealistic expectations must not be raised. It\u2019s crucial to realise that solar must be part of the mix \u2013 it cannot substitute for other sources. For the foreseeable future, India doesn\u2019t have a choice between coal and solar. It needs both.\u201dPragmatism of this kind of now characterises other parts of Indian discourse over energy and the environment. There is, for example, little dispute that the pollution caused in earlier phases of mining and power generation at Singrauli is unacceptable. \u201cThere\u2019s about 80GW \u2013 40% of India\u2019s capacity \u2013 that is either in such disrepair or so dirty that it needs to be replaced,\u201d said Puri. \u201cThe open trucks transporting coal and so on are a short-term phenomenon. No one in their right mind would transport coal by truck.\u201dFor the past two years, Ashwani Dubey, a Delhi lawyer who was brought up in Singrauli, has been fighting a case to force the mine and power plant operators to clean up their act in the National Green Tribunal, a powerful judicial body that rules on environmental matters. In written evidence to the court issued in March, India\u2019s Central Pollution Control Board recommended stringent measures, including the end of ash discharge into the Rihand reservoir by 31 July, and much stricter monitoring of air and water quality. Where necessary, remedial measures should be taken within six months \u2013 to be funded on the \u201cpolluter pays principle\u201d. Within a few months, the open coal trucks are supposed to be gone \u2013 replaced by a closed \u201cmerry-go-round\u201d railway linking mines to power plants.Northern Coalfields now has an environmental team in Singrauli, led by BK Sharma. As parts of the mines are worked out, it \u201cback-fills\u201d the overburden in an effort restore the landscape, and replants native species: \u201cWe are trying to recreate the forest, so that when we leave, it will merge into the ecology of the area,\u201d Sharma said.It sounds utopian. But trees in central India grow fast, and on a visit to what was a part of the Nigahi mine, it was hard to distinguish between remediated pit and original forest. Meanwhile, following a Green Tribunal order, nine village water treatment units have been installed this year. By the end of June, a further 15 are meant to be operational.There are further developments at the national level. Under the new mining law, a third of the money raised by the mining royalty \u2013 a 15% levy on all mine revenue, payable to state governments \u2013 must be given to communities in mine-affected areas, to be spent as they determine. The details have yet to be worked out. But according to Chandra Bushan of the Centre for Science and Environment, \u201cthis is a revolutionary development with huge implications for the entire developing world\u201d.It is to be applied immediately, to old mines and new, and should mean the \u201cdarkness around the candle\u201d seen in places such as Simplex will end. \u201cSingrauli could become one of the richest districts in the country,\u201d said Bushan. \u201cNow we must make sure the money is spent on the right things.\u201dMeanwhile, the government has just introduced new pollution standards for coal plant technology \u2013 as strict as any in the world. \u201cYou will no longer be able to burn coal cheaply and pollute,\u201d said Bushan. Under these rules, old plants such as Shaktinagar and Anpara A will have to be scrapped.Bushan warned that better regulations would not necessarily be enforced. \u201cThe arm of the law is not always long in India. But there are certain trends that are positive. I am impressed quite frankly with the Modi government on these issues. They\u2019ve done more than I expected.\u201dWhere does all this leave India in the run-up to Paris? According to Navroz Dubash, what India and other developing countries need are not rigid emissions targets, but programmes designed to \u201cbend the curve\u201d \u2013 to make emissions lower in the five years after 2020 than they would have been otherwise. The changing format of UN climate negotiations makes this easier to achieve. The diplomatic focus now is not on emissions targets but what are termed INDCs \u2013\u00a0each country\u2019s \u201cintended nationally determined contribution\u201d. These, Dubash said, \u201cprovide an opportunity to dissolve the barrier between development and climate needs\u201d.Measures Dubash would like to see in India\u2019s INDC include its targets for solar energy, better building standards, shifting freight from road to rail, low-energy ceiling fans, and widespread use of LEDs. Most are already in the pipeline: Javadekar said India is about to announce a massive plan to replace city street lights with low-energy LEDs.That approach may allow India to plot the delicate course between environmental and developmental needs. \u201cAs an old UN hand, I must tell you that we only distinguish between success and outstanding success,\u201d Nitin Desai joked. \u201c2015 will be a success. The issue is how great it will be.\u201d\u2022 Follow the Guardian Long Read on Twitter: @gdnlongread", "tags": ["India", "Fossil fuels", "Energy", "Coal", "Solar power", "Renewable energy", "Environment", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Global development", "Natural resources and development"], "title": "Why India is captured by carbon | David Rose"},{"date": "2015-05-25T08:10:38Z", "country": "india", "content": "More than 500 people are believed to have died in a heatwave in India as temperatures approach 50C (122F) in parts of the country.Allahabad, a city in the north, saw the mercury touch 47.7 C (117.8F) on Sunday, according to local media. In Delhi, the capital, a high of 43.5C (110.3F) was recorded.Most of the recorded deaths, primarily from heatstroke and extreme dehydration, have been in rural areas in the south, where roads and markets were deserted in many cities and towns. Local authorities announced a compensation payment of \u00a31,000 to relatives of those killed.The forecast is for a continuing \u201cheatwave to severe heatwave\u201d for the rest of the month. \u201cIt is hot. It will stay hot. People must stay inside and drink lots of water,\u201d Devendra Sharma, an official at the Indian meteorological office said. In the city of Kolkata, in the east, taxi drivers refused to work between 11am and 4pm after a driver died in his cab.Across the country, there were power cuts as India\u2019s inadequate electricity networks sought to fulfil record demand. Shopping malls, which are air-conditioned and often have their own generators to keep customers cool during frequent outages, recorded a surge in visitors.\u201cWe see more and more people walk in, spend some time here and walk out without buying anything. But we understand. It\u2019s terribly hot outside,\u201d Nasir, a security guard at a mall in the city of Patna, told the Times of India newspaper. In Delhi, where temperatures were four degrees higher than the seasonal average, many sought sanctuary in the air-conditioned metro. The highest temperature ever recorded in the capital was 47.2C (116.9F), in May 1944. The record India is thought to be 50.6C (123F), recorded in 1956 in the northern town of Alwar (pdf).The death toll is worse than the severe heatwave in 2010, which started much earlier, registered the highest temperatures for decades and lasted for months. The monsoon, predicted to hit southern India\u2019s coastline on 31 May, will bring relief from the high temperatures, but it will not reach the parched north of the country for several weeks.", "tags": ["India", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Meteorology", "Science"], "title": "India heatwave kills more than 500 people"},{"date": "2015-05-27T05:00:29Z", "country": "india", "content": "Beneath a sky made opaque by billowing dust, a mechanised shovel driver steered his vehicle toward the vast wall of an open coal mine. It was the middle of a central Indian summer afternoon, and outside, the temperature had hit 45C. Up in the cab, 15 metres above the black, shiny ground, it was comfortable, air-conditioned.The driver tipped the steel-toothed rim of the shovel\u2019s bucket downwards, then slammed it into the coal seam wall in front of him. A few hours earlier, a drilling rig mounted on caterpillar tracks had drilled deep holes into the coal from the flat ground above, and filled them with explosives. Their detonation broke the coal into diggable chunks, some of them pebbles, others a metre across.The seam being worked was 20 metres thick, and lay some 300 metres beneath what was once the ground\u2019s surface \u2013 the deeper of two black stripes of coal. Overlying the seams, until it was blasted and dug away, were much larger quantities of grey-brown shale, what miners call \u201coverburden\u201d. Having been stripped from the coal, it lay stacked up in mountainous piles on either side of the mine, the walls of an artificial Grand Canyon. The surface area of this mine, Dudhichua, is 16 square\u00a0kilometres.In the year ending March 2015, Dudhichua produced 15m tonnes of coal \u2013 more than the UK\u2019s entire remaining production. But it is only one of 16 mines in the Singrauli coalfield, which spans parts of two districts in Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. All but one are owned by the state-run Northern Coalfields Ltd, a subsidiary of Coal India, one of the country\u2019s biggest firms. As is the case with other Indian coalfields, Singrauli is home to numerous coal-fired thermal electricity plants, some almost on the doorstep of the mines. Their current aggregate capacity is about 20 gigawatts, nearly 10% of India\u2019s total national generating capacity. (By comparison, peak electricity demand for the entire UK is only 57GW.)Singrauli may be one of India\u2019s biggest energy hubs, but it is also isolated. Apart from the mines and power stations, the coalfield is home to a handful of towns, poverty-stricken villages and some prosperous corporate \u201ccolonies\u201d, with their own schools, sports fields and clinics. To visit the area involves a 220km drive from the nearest airport at Varanasi, on a chaotic road that often lacks a proper surface: the journey\u00a0can easily take eight hours. Phone signals and internet\u00a0are intermittent. The only communications that really work are the high-voltage power lines that carry Singrauli\u2019s output to the teeming cities of northern India\u2019s plains. Last year, the coalfield\u2019s total production was about 87m tonnes. (When the British coal industry began to decline with the outbreak of the 1984 miners\u2019 strike, it was producing about 130m tonnes annually.)Singrauli\u2019s significance \u2013 and that of the subcontinent\u2019s many other coalfields, which span the length and breadth of\u00a0India, with further large reserves in Pakistan \u2013 extends globally. In 2013, the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) reported that in order to restrict the increase of world average temperatures to 2C above pre-industrial times, the world must adopt a strict \u201ccarbon budget\u201d for emissions. According to the IPCC, the current rate of fossil fuel burning will exhaust this within 25 years, after which fuels must either be left unexploited, or have their emissions kept from the atmosphere by carbon capture and storage.India has the world\u2019s fifth-largest coal reserves \u2013\u00a0and very few cleaner fossil fuels, such as natural gas. Its leaders are also determined to spread the benefits of economic\u00a0development more widely among its population of almost 1.3bn people \u2013\u00a0one third of whom still have no access to\u00a0electricity.Anil Swarup, the permanent secretary at the coal ministry in Delhi, said in an interview that last year Indian production from both private and state-owned mines was 620m tonnes, more than 85% of it from open-cast workings. A further 400m tonnes were imported. At Singrauli and elsewhere, he added, production is set to increase rapidly, with strong encouragement from the rightwing Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, which swept to power last year. Modi is determined to restore the sustained GDP growth rate of 8-10% that India enjoyed for a decade until 2011.\u201cWe are looking to double Indian coal production by 2020,\u201d Swarup said, \u201cand to reduce reliance on imports.\u201d Beyond that date, he said production would continue to rise to 1.5bn tonnes a year, with most of this being burnt in coal-fired power plants. In the past six months, the government has given environmental clearance to 41 new mining projects. The consequence, Swarup said, is that from now until 2020, \u201ca new mine will be opened every month. You have to work on the assumption of requirement, and in India, there is a need for power.\u201dLast August, the Indian supreme court ruled that more than 200 mining licences awarded by governments before 2010 were illegal, forcing the cancellation of numerous planned projects. The system that its judgment set aside had already been shown to be rife with corruption. The most prominent casualty of India\u2019s \u201cCoalgate\u201d scandal was the former Congress prime minister Manmohan Singh, who last month came close to criminal indictment.Enshrined in a law enacted by Modi\u2019s government is a new scheme under which coal blocks are auctioned to the highest bidder. It hugely incentivises state governments to foster new mines. According to Swarup, the auctions of the 209 blocks that have been sold off to date have raised about \u00a317bn \u2013 money that will swell state coffers for the next 30 years: \u201cThis will change the states\u2019 economies. They were really strapped for money. Now they will get it.\u201dMany of the richest untapped reserves lie in heavily forested areas, some near Singrauli in Madhya Pradesh, but mainly in Chattisgarh and Jharkand in central India. There, those whose land will be subject to \u201cacquisition\u201d are some of India\u2019s poorest inhabitants, many of them Adivasis \u2013\u00a0members of indigenous tribes.Swarup insisted that preserving the environment was a high priority for those overseeing India\u2019s new coal boom. \u201cSeeing how the environment can be maintained is a crucial part of this. Whenever I talk to my officers, I say the environment is non-negotiable. But there is no viable alternative to developing more coal. Energy requirements have to be met.\u201dTo many western environmentalists, who are determined to see a binding global deal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions at the UN climate change conference in Paris later this year, India\u2019s rising coal use is anathema. However, across a broad range of Delhi politicians and policymakers there is near unanimity. There is, they say, simply no possibility that at this stage in its development India will agree to any form of emissions cap, let alone a cut. Even a pledge of the kind made by China\u2019s leader Xi Jinping after talks with US president\u00a0Barack Obama last year, that Chinese emissions would rise to a peak in 2030 and thereafter decline, would be out of the question.This issue \u2013 the balance between the environment and growth \u2013 arises in every developing country. But India\u2019s sheer size means that its resolution is of exceptional significance.Modi has spoken repeatedly of India\u2019s \u201cright to growth\u201d. Prakash Javadekar, the cabinet minister responsible for the environment, forests and climate change, enlarged on this in blunt terms, speaking in his office at the Rajya Sabha, the upper house of India\u2019s parliament: \u201cOur emissions will grow because we are not developed and we have a right, every person on this Earth has a right, to develop. If today the world is 0.8C warmer [than it was in pre-industrial times], it is not my fault. It is the historical responsibility of those who started emitting with the industrial revolution.\u201d (However, largely because of its sheer size and population, India is one of the ten biggest historical emitters, having contributed around 7% to the warming the world has seen so far, compared to 20% for the US and 5% for the UK.)He cited a Hindi political slogan, taken up by the BJP in its struggle to eclipse the once-impregnable Congress Party: \u201cSinghasan khali karo ki janata aati hai,\u201d which roughly means \u201cVacate the throne, the people are coming.\u201d In Javadekar\u2019s view, for now and for years to come, responsibility for reducing global emissions must be borne by the west: \u201cThey must vacate the carbon space because we are coming. We are developing.\u201dUnderlying that insistence are some brutal facts. India is famously the world\u2019s largest democracy, and is often said to possess the world\u2019s biggest \u201cmiddle class\u201d. But in India this term has a meaning very different to its usage in the west. Navroz Dubash, the head of the climate initiative at Delhi\u2019s Centre for Policy Research, pointed out that among the richest 10% of Indians, a third live in households which have no refrigerators. In the next richest 10%, only 45% have refrigerators, and in the 10% after that, only 28%. At the mid-point of India\u2019s income distribution, the proportion of fridge owners is just 10%.Among the richest 10% of Indians, a third live in households which have no refrigeratorsDubash, a lead author of the IPCC\u2019s reports, is personally in no doubt as to the need to reduce global emissions. But he said that the limited reach of refrigerators \u2013 which India\u2019s climate would seem to make indispensable \u2013 \u201ctells you scary things. If you ask people with that level of access to energy to tighten their belts, that\u2019s a very big ask. It means that emissions inevitably have to grow.\u201d In India, he added, the number of people who consume as much energy as anyone deemed to be above the official poverty line in the developed world is, at most, a few tens of millions. Everyone else consumes less. \u201cFrom a global perspective, you have to give India carbon headroom.\u201dDubash is the principal author of a recent report that examines seven separate projections of India\u2019s future energy needs and likely emissions. All of them \u2013 from institutions including government departments, the World Bank and TERI, the Energy and Resources Institute headed until recently by Raj Pachauri, the former IPCC chairman \u2013 state that both coal-fired power and Indian greenhouse gas emissions are set to increase substantially.\u201cBy 2030, coal use is projected \u2026 to be 2.5-three times current levels,\u201d the report says. Even with stringent policy action to increase the deployment of renewables and increase energy efficiency, \u201ccoal use is projected by all but one study to be more than two times current levels\u201d. (Although India has a small nuclear industry \u2013 which provides less than 5% of its electricity \u2013 attempts to expand it have met strong political resistance. Any new nuclear capacity would take years to build and bring online, so it cannot be expected to fill the country\u2019s energy needs any time soon.)The consequence is that if, as the projections suggest, India\u2019s emissions grow between two and three times by 2030, \u201cIndia could be the second largest global emitter within the next decade.\u201d Its projected output\u00a0\u2013 between 4bn and 5.7bn tonnes of carbon dioxide each year \u2013\u00a0will surpass that of the US, which in 2011 was 5.3bn tonnes and falling, and be smaller only than China\u2019s.India\u2019s population is set to outstrip China\u2019s by 2028. But while its total emissions will be high, they will be nowhere near as great, on a per capita basis, as those of more developed countries. The Xi\u2013Obama deal was based on the notion that by 2030, the two nations will reach per capita emissions \u201cconvergence\u201d, with each person responsible for producing 14 tonnes of carbon each year. By that date, Prakash Javadekar said, the figure for the average Indian will be just 4 tonnes, a little over twice as much as today: \u201cIndia will never reach the Chinese-American convergence point. Every climate action has a cost, but I can\u2019t tax my poor.\u201d Even in 2030, Indian per capita emissions are expected to remain below the current world average.Dubash\u2019s report regards all the projections as flawed: they tend to assume sustained high GDP growth, which may not be achievable, and there is a wide divergence between them. \u201cWe don\u2019t have a very solid set of analytical inputs, and the projections are not robust,\u201d Dubash said. For that reason alone, \u201cstringent pledges would be unwise, because there is too much uncertainty\u201d.Similar opinions can be found in Delhi among people of very different political stripes. There are a few dissenters, such as Greenpeace India \u2013\u00a0which led a campaign by local people to resist the development of a new mine in Singrauli that was finally cancelled last year. Since then, the government has taken steps to curb its activities, freezing all its bank accounts on the grounds that it received donations from abroad. But Greenpeace remains on the margins of India\u2019s debate.According to Barun Mitra, the director of the Liberty Institute, a free-market think tank, \u201cin a country where a third of the population doesn\u2019t have electricity, binding emissions limits are a fairy tale\u201d.Nitin Desai is a retired UN diplomat, who organised the 1992 Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro and later represented the UN secretary-general at international climate conferences. He is now a member of a small expert panel advising Modi in the lead-up to Paris. \u201cIn a country with blackouts and so many people without access to electricity, can I really manage without developing more coal?\u201d he asked. \u201cWhy should we be accountable? The pressure should be on the countries whose per capita emissions are much higher. If you try to force India to adopt emissions targets, you will fail.\u201dThe last time US and European leaders made a serious push for a binding global deal, at the 2009 climate conference in Copenhagen, India\u2019s delegation was led by Jairam Ramesh, who did Javedekar\u2019s job in the then-Congress-led government. As a minister, he was mercilessly attacked for holding up development on environmental grounds. He said: \u201cThe idea that India can set targets in Paris is completely ridiculous and unrealistic. It will not happen. This is a difficult concept for eco-fundamentalists, and I say this as a guy who is considered in India to be very green.\u201dCopenhagen, he said, failed because of what he termed \u201cclimate evangelism. I was sitting for days with Gordon Brown, Ed Miliband, Angela Merkel, Barack Obama and Sarkozy. It was absolutely bizarre. It failed because of an excess of evangelical zeal, of which Brown was the chief proponent. It should not happen again.\u201dHe added: \u201cEven with the most aggressive strategy on nuclear, wind, hydro and solar, coal will still provide 55% of electricity consumption by 2030, which means coal consumption will be 2.5 or three times higher than at present. Mining and burning coal imposes huge environmental burdens. It\u2019s a double whammy: the more coal we extract, the more forest we lose, and that too will add to global warming.\u201dNevertheless, he concluded, \u201cI don\u2019t see any alternative other than at least to double India\u2019s coal consumption in the next 15 years.\u201dIn Singrauli, the \u201cenvironmental burdens\u201d imposed by mining and burning coal are not difficult to spot.Some of the area\u2019s power stations date back to the 1970s, and their chimneys, which are almost 300m high, belch great plumes of thick, oily smoke. Coal power station chimneys are supposed to be fitted with electrostatic precipitators, devices to stop ash being emitted into the atmosphere. But Singrauli coal\u2019s ash content is high, up to 40%, and the people who live in the shadow of the older plants say houses, vehicles and other exposed surfaces will often be coated in a thick, grey film.\u201cNo one dries their washing outside round here,\u201d said Dr KK Aggarwal, who runs a clinic in the town of Anpara, the site of four big plants, two of them old and two extremely new \u2013 the newest, Anpara D, began to come on stream this month. \u201cMany of my patients suffer from respiratory problems, such as asthma, nasal conditions, bronchitis, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. There are also skin conditions such as eczema and psoriasis.\u201d He is convinced the incidence of such conditions is higher than it should be because of the mines and power plants. \u201cPollution is everywhere.\u201dSome of Singrauli\u2019s mine and power plant operators have already taken elaborate steps to reduce discharges into the air and water. Gigantic water sprayers and closed conveyor belts carrying coal from mine to power station keep dust to a minimum. The chimneys at the newest stations, Anpara C and D, and the nearby \u201csuper critical\u201d plant run by the private firm Reliance, India\u2019s biggest company, emit no visible smoke at all \u2013 and use only three-quarters as much coal as older stations.Elsewhere, however, the noxious odour of coal dust hangs in the air, and after a few minutes outside, one senses gritty particles in the recesses of one\u2019s mouth and throat. Some of the mines still ship their coal in open trucks, coating roadside trees, ground and buildings in layers of black grime. One of the worst places is the huge yard on the outskirts of Singrauli town, where loads are transferred from the trucks to railway wagons. At the yard entrance there\u2019s a mini-roundabout, adorned with a seven-metre sculpture of a clenched fist, a monument to India\u2019s trade unions. The fist, once red, is stained the deepest black.Since 2010, the Indian government has designated Singrauli a \u201ccritically polluted area\u201d. In 2012, Delhi\u2019s prestigious Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) tested Singrauli\u2019s water supplies, along with fish from local reservoirs, human blood and hair samples. In all, the study found high levels of mercury: in one village, water from pumps contained 26 times\u00a0the maximum safe limit laid down by the Bureau of Indian Standards. Some of the hair samples had five times the \u201csafe\u201d concentration, while the fish contained twice the recommended level.The CSE study also found high incidences of vitiligo, shivers, impaired vision, and burning sensation in the limbs, all recognised effects of mercury. Continued exposure, the study reported, might lead to depression, memory loss, and kidney damage. Chandra Bushan, the CSE\u2019s deputy director and one of the study\u2019s authors, told me the source of the mercury was evident: \u201cfly ash\u201d from Singrauli\u2019s power plants.Fly ash has its uses \u2013 for example, in making cement. But for decades, untold thousands of tonnes have been collected from the chimneys, mixed with water and then discharged into the Singrauli environment in the form of grey slurry, left to dry and blow about in vast, open air \u201cash decks\u201d.Filthiest of all is the treatment of ash from Anpara A, commissioned in 1987, and Anpara B, which began to generate power seven years later. From the plants, a row of pipes carries the slurry to a series of huge ponds, where the ash is supposed to settle out. But the system does not work. From the third and final pond, the milky, polluted liquid tumbles over a grey cascade into the Rihand reservoir, the source of drinking water for the entire Singrauli region. Where the slurry meets the blue reservoir waters, there is a clear and visible boundary. Once the ash is in the reservoir, there is no way to get rid of it.In one of the ponds, Ram Pri, a landless Adivasi, was up to his waist in liquid muck, sieving out the ash in order to decant it into 33kg bags, which are used to make cement. He said he gets paid Rs50 \u2013 about 50p \u2013 per bag, and by this perilous, toxic labour, can make Rs200\u2013300 a day. His wife used to help him, \u201cbut she can\u2019t any longer: her feet, her knees and ankles are all swollen. She\u2019s not able to walk. Maybe that\u2019s because of what\u2019s in the water.\u201dHis is not the only local family to have derived little benefit from the Singrauli coal and power boom. For more than 20 years, several thousand mainly Adivasi people have been living in Simplex, a concrete shanty town adjoining the perimeter wall of the 4.7GW Vindhyachal power plant \u2013 one of the biggest in India. The colony was built to house workers who built the plant\u2019s early phases, and its high-voltage output lines run directly overhead.Astonishingly, Simplex is still not connected to the electricity grid. Its first \u201creverse osmosis\u201d water treatment unit opened only eight months ago. Until then, said Anjani Kumar Chaubey, a local activist, \u201cwe used to get severe gastric problems. The water we took from our handpumps made your skin sting, and in the monsoon, it contained worms. The whole of India gets electricity from this plant, but we are like the darkness around a candle. How can our children study? Sometimes, when there is a lot of wind, the whole area gets covered with ash. A lot of our people get sick.\u201dIn Chilkantanbasti, where 7,000 people live close to a 35-year old coal plant at Shaktinagar, run by the state-owned National Thermal Power Corporation, there is electricity. But the air is some of the region\u2019s dirtiest: \u201cA man gets up here in the morning and he eats coal dust,\u201d said Umar Kand, 19. \u201cHe goes to bed at night, and he\u2019s eating coal dust still. If you put anything out anything out round here, it will have a film of ash within an hour.\u201d The streets stink also of sewage: there is no sanitation, and despite a promise by NTPC two years ago, no water treatment unit. There are three public toilets, but none of them work. Kand shrugged: \u201cWe go in the forest.\u201dChilkatanbasti is exposed to another hazard. There are now strict rules governing the landscaping and afforestation of mine overburden piles, which must be split into tiers and divided by broad, flat \u201cbenches\u201d, with no slope steeper than 37 degrees. When a giant pile from the Kharia mine that looms over the village was created, these rules did not exist, and the result is a tottering brown mountain, its slopes strewn with boulders the size of cars, its surface deeply etched by the water channels that form each monsoon.\u201cWhen it rains, material comes down towards us,\u201d said Renu, a local woman who preferred not to give her surname. \u201cThe police have even come to tell us we should evacuate our houses in case it slips. I\u2019ve seen the rocks falling down the slopes. If it ever went altogether, it would be like a tsunami. But how can we leave our homes?\u201d* * *Speaking to Time magazine earlier this month, Prime Minister Modi failed to answer a question as to whether India would agree any binding emissions curb in Paris. Instead, he waxed lyrical about Indians\u2019 love for nature, a theme echoed by environment minister Javadekar, who insisted: \u201cGrowth and environmental protection are not against each other. We want a clean India, a green India. Clean air is our birthright\u201d \u2013 a statement that any visitor to Delhi, which currently endures the world\u2019s worst particulate air pollution, will appreciate.Yet these may not be empty words. For among the BJP government\u2019s most ambitious acts has been to quintuple the 2022 targets set for non-fossil energy by the previous regime, to 175GW \u2013 almost six times its current level. The most ambitious target of all is that for solar energy, which is meant to rise from just 3GW now to 100GW, in only seven years. No country has ever built solar at anything approaching this pace, and it would leave India with three times as much solar capacity as Germany \u2013 which over the course of decades, has deployed 38.5GW, much more than anywhere else in Europe, and more than twice as much as the United States. Many people, Dubash said, regard the target as \u201caspirational\u201d: the sheer manufacturing requirement, likely to come at first mainly from China, is huge.On the other hand, for very obvious reasons, photovoltaic solar energy is a much more viable proposition in India than it is in northern European countries such as Germany, or for that matter, Britain. A well-sited solar panel in India will produce energy up to 22% of the time, as against perhaps 8% in the UK.Ratul Puri, chairman of Hindustan Powerprojects Ltd, a multibillion-pound company that has invested heavily in both coal and solar, pointed out that solar has a further local advantage: \u201cSolar generation perfectly overlays the demand cycle.\u201d In other words, the hot, dry and sunny months will see solar output peak, just as the demand for irrigation pumps, fans and air conditioning is also at its greatest. During the cooling monsoon, solar output plummets, but so does demand: there is no need for irrigation when it\u2019s pouring with rain.\u201cCan we have 100% of energy in India from solar?\u201d Puri asked. \u201cNo, because I still want to be able to turn on my lights at 9pm at night, when solar is generating nothing. But 15, 20% of our energy coming from solar: we can easily do this in the very near future.\u201dEven in fertile, intensely farmed states such as Punjab, 15% of the land is arid, and unsuitable for irrigation \u2013 but ideal for solar panels. Meanwhile, in distinct contrast to Germany or Britain, the levelised cost of solar energy per 1KW/hr unit, averaged out over 25 years, is already close to \u201cgrid parity\u201d, simply because Indian solar panels are so much more productive. Government subsidies have in the past been provided for small-scale users \u2013\u00a0though these were recently cut, from 30% to 15% of installation costs, while only 15% those who deployed solar panels ever claimed them anyway. In India, even without subsidy, solar is becoming competitive with electricity from coal.According to Puri, the price of solar electricity has fallen from Rs13 to Rs6.5 per 1KW/hr unit over the past five years \u2013 very close to the Rs6 cost of thermal power from coal. However, recent reforms to the finance of long-term infrastructure debt are reducing the gap still further. Puri added: \u201cEveryone expects interest rates [currently a ruinous 10- 12%] to come down. If that happens, solar is going to hit grid parity, irrespective of any technical discoveries, within the next two years.\u201dA well-sited solar panel in India will produce energy up to 22% of the time, as against perhaps 8% in the UKIn the past five years, Puri\u2019s balance sheet has been split, two to one, in favour of coal over renewables. He said that over the next five years, he intends to reverse that balance, with \u00a31bn going to coal and close to \u00a33bn to solar \u2013 making Hindustan Powerprojects easily India\u2019s biggest renewables investor.Behind that decision is the fact that during the growth slowdown after 2011, very few new coal power plants were commissioned, while most of the private power firms which have come to dominate the industry are financially \u201cdistressed\u201d.The reasons are complex. They partly stem from the chaotic and indebted state of the \u201cdiscoms\u201d, or distribution companies, the middlemen in India\u2019s electricity industry, which buy power from generators and sell it to consumers. Artificially low tariffs imposed by state governments mean that discoms deliberately restrict supply, preferring to make power cuts than to increase their losses by selling power at prices below its purchase cost. There has also been a widespread failure to take action against rampant electricity theft in informal urban settlements. The upshot is that most coal plants are operating at only 60% capacity \u2013 for the time being, there is a surprising degree of slack in the system.But Puri said that if the economy \u201cdoes start to roar again\u201d in the way that Modi intends, the country will face a serious power shortfall by 2017. Even if new coal plants started to be planned today, they would not avert this problem: it usually takes seven-to-10 years for a freshly conceived coal plant to become operational.On the other hand, solar projects can typically be realised within 12 to 18 months. \u201cThe inactivity in commissioning new thermal plants over the last three years leaves India no choice but to go out and build solar capacity. That means India can overcome the crisis of electricity shortages, have cleaner air, have a more stable grid and go say nice things at the climate change negotiations in Paris.\u201dWithout storage technology far in advance of what exists today, coal will still have to provide India\u2019s \u201cbaseload\u201d: lights and air conditioning at night; power for the factories Modi wants to see built. But beyond 2030, anything is possible. \u201cI think the entire energy landscape is going to change in the next 30 years,\u201d Puri said. \u201cStorage is going to revolutionise it. I also think solar energy will become much cheaper than coal. So why would you build a coal thermal plant?\u201dThere are other solar niches. The unreliability of India\u2019s grid power means the country possesses a staggering 80GW of expensive, off-grid, liquid-fuel generating capacity, most from highly polluting diesel generators. Typically, consumers pay about Rs18 per unit for it when their grid power goes off \u2013 three times the usual price.In Noida, a burgeoning satellite city on the outskirts of the Delhi megalopolis, Kushagara Nandan runs Sunsource Energy, a solar start-up. Educated in the US, he cut his teeth on a similar outfit based in New Jersey. Last year, Sunsource revenues quintupled, to \u00a36m.Part of his business is supplying rooftop units which, when the sun is shining, can fill the gap caused by grid outages far more cheaply than diesel: \u201cWe synchronise grid, diesel and solar together. In Delhi alone, the potential for rooftop solar is at least 1.5GW.\u201d One of his projects, rated at 250KW, adorns the Habitat Centre, a complex that includes conference venues, auditoria, restaurants and art galleries. Another 500KW array has allowed a school to save 20% on its power bills.Cheap, off-grid solar also has great potential in India\u2019s vast rural hinterland. Last year, a solar project to desalinate briny ground water from wells and power irrigation pumps at a village in the southern state of Andhra Pradesh, which Sunsource helped develop with an Indian NGO, was given a Google Global Impact Challenge award. It worked so well that it has now been rolled out in five different villages.Like Ratul Puri, Nandan is a businessman. He is in solar primarily to make money. He urged caution: \u201cUnrealistic expectations must not be raised. It\u2019s crucial to realise that solar must be part of the mix \u2013 it cannot substitute for other sources. For the foreseeable future, India doesn\u2019t have a choice between coal and solar. It needs both.\u201dPragmatism of this kind of now characterises other parts of Indian discourse over energy and the environment. There is, for example, little dispute that the pollution caused in earlier phases of mining and power generation at Singrauli is unacceptable. \u201cThere\u2019s about 80GW \u2013 40% of India\u2019s capacity \u2013 that is either in such disrepair or so dirty that it needs to be replaced,\u201d said Puri. \u201cThe open trucks transporting coal and so on are a short-term phenomenon. No one in their right mind would transport coal by truck.\u201dFor the past two years, Ashwani Dubey, a Delhi lawyer who was brought up in Singrauli, has been fighting a case to force the mine and power plant operators to clean up their act in the National Green Tribunal, a powerful judicial body that rules on environmental matters. In written evidence to the court issued in March, India\u2019s Central Pollution Control Board recommended stringent measures, including the end of ash discharge into the Rihand reservoir by 31 July, and much stricter monitoring of air and water quality. Where necessary, remedial measures should be taken within six months \u2013 to be funded on the \u201cpolluter pays principle\u201d. Within a few months, the open coal trucks are supposed to be gone \u2013 replaced by a closed \u201cmerry-go-round\u201d railway linking mines to power plants.Northern Coalfields now has an environmental team in Singrauli, led by BK Sharma. As parts of the mines are worked out, it \u201cback-fills\u201d the overburden in an effort restore the landscape, and replants native species: \u201cWe are trying to recreate the forest, so that when we leave, it will merge into the ecology of the area,\u201d Sharma said.It sounds utopian. But trees in central India grow fast, and on a visit to what was a part of the Nigahi mine, it was hard to distinguish between remediated pit and original forest. Meanwhile, following a Green Tribunal order, nine village water treatment units have been installed this year. By the end of June, a further 15 are meant to be operational.There are further developments at the national level. Under the new mining law, a third of the money raised by the mining royalty \u2013 a 15% levy on all mine revenue, payable to state governments \u2013 must be given to communities in mine-affected areas, to be spent as they determine. The details have yet to be worked out. But according to Chandra Bushan of the Centre for Science and Environment, \u201cthis is a revolutionary development with huge implications for the entire developing world\u201d.It is to be applied immediately, to old mines and new, and should mean the \u201cdarkness around the candle\u201d seen in places such as Simplex will end. \u201cSingrauli could become one of the richest districts in the country,\u201d said Bushan. \u201cNow we must make sure the money is spent on the right things.\u201dMeanwhile, the government has just introduced new pollution standards for coal plant technology \u2013 as strict as any in the world. \u201cYou will no longer be able to burn coal cheaply and pollute,\u201d said Bushan. Under these rules, old plants such as Shaktinagar and Anpara A will have to be scrapped.Bushan warned that better regulations would not necessarily be enforced. \u201cThe arm of the law is not always long in India. But there are certain trends that are positive. I am impressed quite frankly with the Modi government on these issues. They\u2019ve done more than I expected.\u201dWhere does all this leave India in the run-up to Paris? According to Navroz Dubash, what India and other developing countries need are not rigid emissions targets, but programmes designed to \u201cbend the curve\u201d \u2013 to make emissions lower in the five years after 2020 than they would have been otherwise. The changing format of UN climate negotiations makes this easier to achieve. The diplomatic focus now is not on emissions targets but what are termed INDCs \u2013\u00a0each country\u2019s \u201cintended nationally determined contribution\u201d. These, Dubash said, \u201cprovide an opportunity to dissolve the barrier between development and climate needs\u201d.Measures Dubash would like to see in India\u2019s INDC include its targets for solar energy, better building standards, shifting freight from road to rail, low-energy ceiling fans, and widespread use of LEDs. Most are already in the pipeline: Javadekar said India is about to announce a massive plan to replace city street lights with low-energy LEDs.That approach may allow India to plot the delicate course between environmental and developmental needs. \u201cAs an old UN hand, I must tell you that we only distinguish between success and outstanding success,\u201d Nitin Desai joked. \u201c2015 will be a success. The issue is how great it will be.\u201d\u2022 Follow the Guardian Long Read on Twitter: @gdnlongread", "tags": ["India", "Fossil fuels", "Energy", "Coal", "Solar power", "Renewable energy", "Environment", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Global development", "Natural resources and development"], "title": "Why India is captured by carbon | David Rose"},{"date": "2015-05-25T08:10:38Z", "country": "india", "content": "More than 500 people are believed to have died in a heatwave in India as temperatures approach 50C (122F) in parts of the country.Allahabad, a city in the north, saw the mercury touch 47.7 C (117.8F) on Sunday, according to local media. In Delhi, the capital, a high of 43.5C (110.3F) was recorded.Most of the recorded deaths, primarily from heatstroke and extreme dehydration, have been in rural areas in the south, where roads and markets were deserted in many cities and towns. Local authorities announced a compensation payment of \u00a31,000 to relatives of those killed.The forecast is for a continuing \u201cheatwave to severe heatwave\u201d for the rest of the month. \u201cIt is hot. It will stay hot. People must stay inside and drink lots of water,\u201d Devendra Sharma, an official at the Indian meteorological office said. In the city of Kolkata, in the east, taxi drivers refused to work between 11am and 4pm after a driver died in his cab.Across the country, there were power cuts as India\u2019s inadequate electricity networks sought to fulfil record demand. Shopping malls, which are air-conditioned and often have their own generators to keep customers cool during frequent outages, recorded a surge in visitors.\u201cWe see more and more people walk in, spend some time here and walk out without buying anything. But we understand. It\u2019s terribly hot outside,\u201d Nasir, a security guard at a mall in the city of Patna, told the Times of India newspaper. In Delhi, where temperatures were four degrees higher than the seasonal average, many sought sanctuary in the air-conditioned metro. The highest temperature ever recorded in the capital was 47.2C (116.9F), in May 1944. The record India is thought to be 50.6C (123F), recorded in 1956 in the northern town of Alwar (pdf).The death toll is worse than the severe heatwave in 2010, which started much earlier, registered the highest temperatures for decades and lasted for months. The monsoon, predicted to hit southern India\u2019s coastline on 31 May, will bring relief from the high temperatures, but it will not reach the parched north of the country for several weeks.", "tags": ["India", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Meteorology", "Science"], "title": "India heatwave kills more than 500 people"},{"date": "2015-06-11T15:31:19Z", "country": "india", "content": "iPhones could soon be made in India as well as China, according to Indian government officials.Apple\u2019s manufacturing partner Foxconn, which makes the iPhone, iPad and several other Apple products in factories in China, is in talks to open factories in India to make iPhones.The move would help Foxconn mitigate accelerating labour costs in China, potentially lower prices for iPhones sold in India and move the site of construction closer to buyers in the world\u2019s third-largest smartphone market.\u201cFoxconn is sending a delegation of their officers to scout for locations in a month\u2019s time,\u201d said Subhash Desai, industries minister of India\u2019s western state Maharashtra.Lower production costs could also help Foxconn keep hold of Apple orders amid intensifying competition with nimble manufacturing rivals such as Quanta Computer Inc.Foxconn, the world\u2019s largest contract manufacturer of consumer electronics, has said it is aiming to develop 10-12 facilities in India, including factories and data centres, by 2020, but had given no detail.The Taiwan-based company declined to comment on detailed plans on Thursday, citing commercial sensitivity. Apple did not respond to comment. Desai said Foxconn had yet to make any firm commitment at this stage.India has the second-highest number of mobile phone accounts behind China. According to networking company Cisco Systems, there will be 650m smartphones in the country by 2019. The number of tablets will rise 9% to 18.7m by then.Apple holds 10% of the smartphone market in India, according to data from Counterpoint, and faces tough competition from arch-rival Samsung and local brands such as Micromax, which produce similarly specified smartphones for around half the cost than an iPhone 6, or less.Foxconn is no stranger to India. It ran operations in India until last year producing Nokia devices. Its return to the country would be a boon for India\u2019s manufacturing industry, which prime minister Narendra Modi has made a target for a reboot to rival China.A lack of good infrastructure and suppliers are the biggest hurdles to making technology products in the country, forcing most of India\u2019s more than 100 different phone companies to get their products from the mature markets of China and Taiwan.\u2022 China\u2019s Baidu could beat Google to self-driving car with BMW", "tags": ["Apple", "iPhone", "Technology", "India", "World news", "Foxconn", "Manufacturing sector", "Business", "Smartphones", "South and Central Asia", "Mobile phones"], "title": "Apple iPhones could soon be built in India"},{"date": "2015-05-27T05:00:29Z", "country": "india", "content": "Beneath a sky made opaque by billowing dust, a mechanised shovel driver steered his vehicle toward the vast wall of an open coal mine. It was the middle of a central Indian summer afternoon, and outside, the temperature had hit 45C. Up in the cab, 15 metres above the black, shiny ground, it was comfortable, air-conditioned.The driver tipped the steel-toothed rim of the shovel\u2019s bucket downwards, then slammed it into the coal seam wall in front of him. A few hours earlier, a drilling rig mounted on caterpillar tracks had drilled deep holes into the coal from the flat ground above, and filled them with explosives. Their detonation broke the coal into diggable chunks, some of them pebbles, others a metre across.The seam being worked was 20 metres thick, and lay some 300 metres beneath what was once the ground\u2019s surface \u2013 the deeper of two black stripes of coal. Overlying the seams, until it was blasted and dug away, were much larger quantities of grey-brown shale, what miners call \u201coverburden\u201d. Having been stripped from the coal, it lay stacked up in mountainous piles on either side of the mine, the walls of an artificial Grand Canyon. The surface area of this mine, Dudhichua, is 16 square\u00a0kilometres.In the year ending March 2015, Dudhichua produced 15m tonnes of coal \u2013 more than the UK\u2019s entire remaining production. But it is only one of 16 mines in the Singrauli coalfield, which spans parts of two districts in Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. All but one are owned by the state-run Northern Coalfields Ltd, a subsidiary of Coal India, one of the country\u2019s biggest firms. As is the case with other Indian coalfields, Singrauli is home to numerous coal-fired thermal electricity plants, some almost on the doorstep of the mines. Their current aggregate capacity is about 20 gigawatts, nearly 10% of India\u2019s total national generating capacity. (By comparison, peak electricity demand for the entire UK is only 57GW.)Singrauli may be one of India\u2019s biggest energy hubs, but it is also isolated. Apart from the mines and power stations, the coalfield is home to a handful of towns, poverty-stricken villages and some prosperous corporate \u201ccolonies\u201d, with their own schools, sports fields and clinics. To visit the area involves a 220km drive from the nearest airport at Varanasi, on a chaotic road that often lacks a proper surface: the journey\u00a0can easily take eight hours. Phone signals and internet\u00a0are intermittent. The only communications that really work are the high-voltage power lines that carry Singrauli\u2019s output to the teeming cities of northern India\u2019s plains. Last year, the coalfield\u2019s total production was about 87m tonnes. (When the British coal industry began to decline with the outbreak of the 1984 miners\u2019 strike, it was producing about 130m tonnes annually.)Singrauli\u2019s significance \u2013 and that of the subcontinent\u2019s many other coalfields, which span the length and breadth of\u00a0India, with further large reserves in Pakistan \u2013 extends globally. In 2013, the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) reported that in order to restrict the increase of world average temperatures to 2C above pre-industrial times, the world must adopt a strict \u201ccarbon budget\u201d for emissions. According to the IPCC, the current rate of fossil fuel burning will exhaust this within 25 years, after which fuels must either be left unexploited, or have their emissions kept from the atmosphere by carbon capture and storage.India has the world\u2019s fifth-largest coal reserves \u2013\u00a0and very few cleaner fossil fuels, such as natural gas. Its leaders are also determined to spread the benefits of economic\u00a0development more widely among its population of almost 1.3bn people \u2013\u00a0one third of whom still have no access to\u00a0electricity.Anil Swarup, the permanent secretary at the coal ministry in Delhi, said in an interview that last year Indian production from both private and state-owned mines was 620m tonnes, more than 85% of it from open-cast workings. A further 400m tonnes were imported. At Singrauli and elsewhere, he added, production is set to increase rapidly, with strong encouragement from the rightwing Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, which swept to power last year. Modi is determined to restore the sustained GDP growth rate of 8-10% that India enjoyed for a decade until 2011.\u201cWe are looking to double Indian coal production by 2020,\u201d Swarup said, \u201cand to reduce reliance on imports.\u201d Beyond that date, he said production would continue to rise to 1.5bn tonnes a year, with most of this being burnt in coal-fired power plants. In the past six months, the government has given environmental clearance to 41 new mining projects. The consequence, Swarup said, is that from now until 2020, \u201ca new mine will be opened every month. You have to work on the assumption of requirement, and in India, there is a need for power.\u201dLast August, the Indian supreme court ruled that more than 200 mining licences awarded by governments before 2010 were illegal, forcing the cancellation of numerous planned projects. The system that its judgment set aside had already been shown to be rife with corruption. The most prominent casualty of India\u2019s \u201cCoalgate\u201d scandal was the former Congress prime minister Manmohan Singh, who last month came close to criminal indictment.Enshrined in a law enacted by Modi\u2019s government is a new scheme under which coal blocks are auctioned to the highest bidder. It hugely incentivises state governments to foster new mines. According to Swarup, the auctions of the 209 blocks that have been sold off to date have raised about \u00a317bn \u2013 money that will swell state coffers for the next 30 years: \u201cThis will change the states\u2019 economies. They were really strapped for money. Now they will get it.\u201dMany of the richest untapped reserves lie in heavily forested areas, some near Singrauli in Madhya Pradesh, but mainly in Chattisgarh and Jharkand in central India. There, those whose land will be subject to \u201cacquisition\u201d are some of India\u2019s poorest inhabitants, many of them Adivasis \u2013\u00a0members of indigenous tribes.Swarup insisted that preserving the environment was a high priority for those overseeing India\u2019s new coal boom. \u201cSeeing how the environment can be maintained is a crucial part of this. Whenever I talk to my officers, I say the environment is non-negotiable. But there is no viable alternative to developing more coal. Energy requirements have to be met.\u201dTo many western environmentalists, who are determined to see a binding global deal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions at the UN climate change conference in Paris later this year, India\u2019s rising coal use is anathema. However, across a broad range of Delhi politicians and policymakers there is near unanimity. There is, they say, simply no possibility that at this stage in its development India will agree to any form of emissions cap, let alone a cut. Even a pledge of the kind made by China\u2019s leader Xi Jinping after talks with US president\u00a0Barack Obama last year, that Chinese emissions would rise to a peak in 2030 and thereafter decline, would be out of the question.This issue \u2013 the balance between the environment and growth \u2013 arises in every developing country. But India\u2019s sheer size means that its resolution is of exceptional significance.Modi has spoken repeatedly of India\u2019s \u201cright to growth\u201d. Prakash Javadekar, the cabinet minister responsible for the environment, forests and climate change, enlarged on this in blunt terms, speaking in his office at the Rajya Sabha, the upper house of India\u2019s parliament: \u201cOur emissions will grow because we are not developed and we have a right, every person on this Earth has a right, to develop. If today the world is 0.8C warmer [than it was in pre-industrial times], it is not my fault. It is the historical responsibility of those who started emitting with the industrial revolution.\u201d (However, largely because of its sheer size and population, India is one of the ten biggest historical emitters, having contributed around 7% to the warming the world has seen so far, compared to 20% for the US and 5% for the UK.)He cited a Hindi political slogan, taken up by the BJP in its struggle to eclipse the once-impregnable Congress Party: \u201cSinghasan khali karo ki janata aati hai,\u201d which roughly means \u201cVacate the throne, the people are coming.\u201d In Javadekar\u2019s view, for now and for years to come, responsibility for reducing global emissions must be borne by the west: \u201cThey must vacate the carbon space because we are coming. We are developing.\u201dUnderlying that insistence are some brutal facts. India is famously the world\u2019s largest democracy, and is often said to possess the world\u2019s biggest \u201cmiddle class\u201d. But in India this term has a meaning very different to its usage in the west. Navroz Dubash, the head of the climate initiative at Delhi\u2019s Centre for Policy Research, pointed out that among the richest 10% of Indians, a third live in households which have no refrigerators. In the next richest 10%, only 45% have refrigerators, and in the 10% after that, only 28%. At the mid-point of India\u2019s income distribution, the proportion of fridge owners is just 10%.Among the richest 10% of Indians, a third live in households which have no refrigeratorsDubash, a lead author of the IPCC\u2019s reports, is personally in no doubt as to the need to reduce global emissions. But he said that the limited reach of refrigerators \u2013 which India\u2019s climate would seem to make indispensable \u2013 \u201ctells you scary things. If you ask people with that level of access to energy to tighten their belts, that\u2019s a very big ask. It means that emissions inevitably have to grow.\u201d In India, he added, the number of people who consume as much energy as anyone deemed to be above the official poverty line in the developed world is, at most, a few tens of millions. Everyone else consumes less. \u201cFrom a global perspective, you have to give India carbon headroom.\u201dDubash is the principal author of a recent report that examines seven separate projections of India\u2019s future energy needs and likely emissions. All of them \u2013 from institutions including government departments, the World Bank and TERI, the Energy and Resources Institute headed until recently by Raj Pachauri, the former IPCC chairman \u2013 state that both coal-fired power and Indian greenhouse gas emissions are set to increase substantially.\u201cBy 2030, coal use is projected \u2026 to be 2.5-three times current levels,\u201d the report says. Even with stringent policy action to increase the deployment of renewables and increase energy efficiency, \u201ccoal use is projected by all but one study to be more than two times current levels\u201d. (Although India has a small nuclear industry \u2013 which provides less than 5% of its electricity \u2013 attempts to expand it have met strong political resistance. Any new nuclear capacity would take years to build and bring online, so it cannot be expected to fill the country\u2019s energy needs any time soon.)The consequence is that if, as the projections suggest, India\u2019s emissions grow between two and three times by 2030, \u201cIndia could be the second largest global emitter within the next decade.\u201d Its projected output\u00a0\u2013 between 4bn and 5.7bn tonnes of carbon dioxide each year \u2013\u00a0will surpass that of the US, which in 2011 was 5.3bn tonnes and falling, and be smaller only than China\u2019s.India\u2019s population is set to outstrip China\u2019s by 2028. But while its total emissions will be high, they will be nowhere near as great, on a per capita basis, as those of more developed countries. The Xi\u2013Obama deal was based on the notion that by 2030, the two nations will reach per capita emissions \u201cconvergence\u201d, with each person responsible for producing 14 tonnes of carbon each year. By that date, Prakash Javadekar said, the figure for the average Indian will be just 4 tonnes, a little over twice as much as today: \u201cIndia will never reach the Chinese-American convergence point. Every climate action has a cost, but I can\u2019t tax my poor.\u201d Even in 2030, Indian per capita emissions are expected to remain below the current world average.Dubash\u2019s report regards all the projections as flawed: they tend to assume sustained high GDP growth, which may not be achievable, and there is a wide divergence between them. \u201cWe don\u2019t have a very solid set of analytical inputs, and the projections are not robust,\u201d Dubash said. For that reason alone, \u201cstringent pledges would be unwise, because there is too much uncertainty\u201d.Similar opinions can be found in Delhi among people of very different political stripes. There are a few dissenters, such as Greenpeace India \u2013\u00a0which led a campaign by local people to resist the development of a new mine in Singrauli that was finally cancelled last year. Since then, the government has taken steps to curb its activities, freezing all its bank accounts on the grounds that it received donations from abroad. But Greenpeace remains on the margins of India\u2019s debate.According to Barun Mitra, the director of the Liberty Institute, a free-market think tank, \u201cin a country where a third of the population doesn\u2019t have electricity, binding emissions limits are a fairy tale\u201d.Nitin Desai is a retired UN diplomat, who organised the 1992 Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro and later represented the UN secretary-general at international climate conferences. He is now a member of a small expert panel advising Modi in the lead-up to Paris. \u201cIn a country with blackouts and so many people without access to electricity, can I really manage without developing more coal?\u201d he asked. \u201cWhy should we be accountable? The pressure should be on the countries whose per capita emissions are much higher. If you try to force India to adopt emissions targets, you will fail.\u201dThe last time US and European leaders made a serious push for a binding global deal, at the 2009 climate conference in Copenhagen, India\u2019s delegation was led by Jairam Ramesh, who did Javedekar\u2019s job in the then-Congress-led government. As a minister, he was mercilessly attacked for holding up development on environmental grounds. He said: \u201cThe idea that India can set targets in Paris is completely ridiculous and unrealistic. It will not happen. This is a difficult concept for eco-fundamentalists, and I say this as a guy who is considered in India to be very green.\u201dCopenhagen, he said, failed because of what he termed \u201cclimate evangelism. I was sitting for days with Gordon Brown, Ed Miliband, Angela Merkel, Barack Obama and Sarkozy. It was absolutely bizarre. It failed because of an excess of evangelical zeal, of which Brown was the chief proponent. It should not happen again.\u201dHe added: \u201cEven with the most aggressive strategy on nuclear, wind, hydro and solar, coal will still provide 55% of electricity consumption by 2030, which means coal consumption will be 2.5 or three times higher than at present. Mining and burning coal imposes huge environmental burdens. It\u2019s a double whammy: the more coal we extract, the more forest we lose, and that too will add to global warming.\u201dNevertheless, he concluded, \u201cI don\u2019t see any alternative other than at least to double India\u2019s coal consumption in the next 15 years.\u201dIn Singrauli, the \u201cenvironmental burdens\u201d imposed by mining and burning coal are not difficult to spot.Some of the area\u2019s power stations date back to the 1970s, and their chimneys, which are almost 300m high, belch great plumes of thick, oily smoke. Coal power station chimneys are supposed to be fitted with electrostatic precipitators, devices to stop ash being emitted into the atmosphere. But Singrauli coal\u2019s ash content is high, up to 40%, and the people who live in the shadow of the older plants say houses, vehicles and other exposed surfaces will often be coated in a thick, grey film.\u201cNo one dries their washing outside round here,\u201d said Dr KK Aggarwal, who runs a clinic in the town of Anpara, the site of four big plants, two of them old and two extremely new \u2013 the newest, Anpara D, began to come on stream this month. \u201cMany of my patients suffer from respiratory problems, such as asthma, nasal conditions, bronchitis, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. There are also skin conditions such as eczema and psoriasis.\u201d He is convinced the incidence of such conditions is higher than it should be because of the mines and power plants. \u201cPollution is everywhere.\u201dSome of Singrauli\u2019s mine and power plant operators have already taken elaborate steps to reduce discharges into the air and water. Gigantic water sprayers and closed conveyor belts carrying coal from mine to power station keep dust to a minimum. The chimneys at the newest stations, Anpara C and D, and the nearby \u201csuper critical\u201d plant run by the private firm Reliance, India\u2019s biggest company, emit no visible smoke at all \u2013 and use only three-quarters as much coal as older stations.Elsewhere, however, the noxious odour of coal dust hangs in the air, and after a few minutes outside, one senses gritty particles in the recesses of one\u2019s mouth and throat. Some of the mines still ship their coal in open trucks, coating roadside trees, ground and buildings in layers of black grime. One of the worst places is the huge yard on the outskirts of Singrauli town, where loads are transferred from the trucks to railway wagons. At the yard entrance there\u2019s a mini-roundabout, adorned with a seven-metre sculpture of a clenched fist, a monument to India\u2019s trade unions. The fist, once red, is stained the deepest black.Since 2010, the Indian government has designated Singrauli a \u201ccritically polluted area\u201d. In 2012, Delhi\u2019s prestigious Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) tested Singrauli\u2019s water supplies, along with fish from local reservoirs, human blood and hair samples. In all, the study found high levels of mercury: in one village, water from pumps contained 26 times\u00a0the maximum safe limit laid down by the Bureau of Indian Standards. Some of the hair samples had five times the \u201csafe\u201d concentration, while the fish contained twice the recommended level.The CSE study also found high incidences of vitiligo, shivers, impaired vision, and burning sensation in the limbs, all recognised effects of mercury. Continued exposure, the study reported, might lead to depression, memory loss, and kidney damage. Chandra Bushan, the CSE\u2019s deputy director and one of the study\u2019s authors, told me the source of the mercury was evident: \u201cfly ash\u201d from Singrauli\u2019s power plants.Fly ash has its uses \u2013 for example, in making cement. But for decades, untold thousands of tonnes have been collected from the chimneys, mixed with water and then discharged into the Singrauli environment in the form of grey slurry, left to dry and blow about in vast, open air \u201cash decks\u201d.Filthiest of all is the treatment of ash from Anpara A, commissioned in 1987, and Anpara B, which began to generate power seven years later. From the plants, a row of pipes carries the slurry to a series of huge ponds, where the ash is supposed to settle out. But the system does not work. From the third and final pond, the milky, polluted liquid tumbles over a grey cascade into the Rihand reservoir, the source of drinking water for the entire Singrauli region. Where the slurry meets the blue reservoir waters, there is a clear and visible boundary. Once the ash is in the reservoir, there is no way to get rid of it.In one of the ponds, Ram Pri, a landless Adivasi, was up to his waist in liquid muck, sieving out the ash in order to decant it into 33kg bags, which are used to make cement. He said he gets paid Rs50 \u2013 about 50p \u2013 per bag, and by this perilous, toxic labour, can make Rs200\u2013300 a day. His wife used to help him, \u201cbut she can\u2019t any longer: her feet, her knees and ankles are all swollen. She\u2019s not able to walk. Maybe that\u2019s because of what\u2019s in the water.\u201dHis is not the only local family to have derived little benefit from the Singrauli coal and power boom. For more than 20 years, several thousand mainly Adivasi people have been living in Simplex, a concrete shanty town adjoining the perimeter wall of the 4.7GW Vindhyachal power plant \u2013 one of the biggest in India. The colony was built to house workers who built the plant\u2019s early phases, and its high-voltage output lines run directly overhead.Astonishingly, Simplex is still not connected to the electricity grid. Its first \u201creverse osmosis\u201d water treatment unit opened only eight months ago. Until then, said Anjani Kumar Chaubey, a local activist, \u201cwe used to get severe gastric problems. The water we took from our handpumps made your skin sting, and in the monsoon, it contained worms. The whole of India gets electricity from this plant, but we are like the darkness around a candle. How can our children study? Sometimes, when there is a lot of wind, the whole area gets covered with ash. A lot of our people get sick.\u201dIn Chilkantanbasti, where 7,000 people live close to a 35-year old coal plant at Shaktinagar, run by the state-owned National Thermal Power Corporation, there is electricity. But the air is some of the region\u2019s dirtiest: \u201cA man gets up here in the morning and he eats coal dust,\u201d said Umar Kand, 19. \u201cHe goes to bed at night, and he\u2019s eating coal dust still. If you put anything out anything out round here, it will have a film of ash within an hour.\u201d The streets stink also of sewage: there is no sanitation, and despite a promise by NTPC two years ago, no water treatment unit. There are three public toilets, but none of them work. Kand shrugged: \u201cWe go in the forest.\u201dChilkatanbasti is exposed to another hazard. There are now strict rules governing the landscaping and afforestation of mine overburden piles, which must be split into tiers and divided by broad, flat \u201cbenches\u201d, with no slope steeper than 37 degrees. When a giant pile from the Kharia mine that looms over the village was created, these rules did not exist, and the result is a tottering brown mountain, its slopes strewn with boulders the size of cars, its surface deeply etched by the water channels that form each monsoon.\u201cWhen it rains, material comes down towards us,\u201d said Renu, a local woman who preferred not to give her surname. \u201cThe police have even come to tell us we should evacuate our houses in case it slips. I\u2019ve seen the rocks falling down the slopes. If it ever went altogether, it would be like a tsunami. But how can we leave our homes?\u201d* * *Speaking to Time magazine earlier this month, Prime Minister Modi failed to answer a question as to whether India would agree any binding emissions curb in Paris. Instead, he waxed lyrical about Indians\u2019 love for nature, a theme echoed by environment minister Javadekar, who insisted: \u201cGrowth and environmental protection are not against each other. We want a clean India, a green India. Clean air is our birthright\u201d \u2013 a statement that any visitor to Delhi, which currently endures the world\u2019s worst particulate air pollution, will appreciate.Yet these may not be empty words. For among the BJP government\u2019s most ambitious acts has been to quintuple the 2022 targets set for non-fossil energy by the previous regime, to 175GW \u2013 almost six times its current level. The most ambitious target of all is that for solar energy, which is meant to rise from just 3GW now to 100GW, in only seven years. No country has ever built solar at anything approaching this pace, and it would leave India with three times as much solar capacity as Germany \u2013 which over the course of decades, has deployed 38.5GW, much more than anywhere else in Europe, and more than twice as much as the United States. Many people, Dubash said, regard the target as \u201caspirational\u201d: the sheer manufacturing requirement, likely to come at first mainly from China, is huge.On the other hand, for very obvious reasons, photovoltaic solar energy is a much more viable proposition in India than it is in northern European countries such as Germany, or for that matter, Britain. A well-sited solar panel in India will produce energy up to 22% of the time, as against perhaps 8% in the UK.Ratul Puri, chairman of Hindustan Powerprojects Ltd, a multibillion-pound company that has invested heavily in both coal and solar, pointed out that solar has a further local advantage: \u201cSolar generation perfectly overlays the demand cycle.\u201d In other words, the hot, dry and sunny months will see solar output peak, just as the demand for irrigation pumps, fans and air conditioning is also at its greatest. During the cooling monsoon, solar output plummets, but so does demand: there is no need for irrigation when it\u2019s pouring with rain.\u201cCan we have 100% of energy in India from solar?\u201d Puri asked. \u201cNo, because I still want to be able to turn on my lights at 9pm at night, when solar is generating nothing. But 15, 20% of our energy coming from solar: we can easily do this in the very near future.\u201dEven in fertile, intensely farmed states such as Punjab, 15% of the land is arid, and unsuitable for irrigation \u2013 but ideal for solar panels. Meanwhile, in distinct contrast to Germany or Britain, the levelised cost of solar energy per 1KW/hr unit, averaged out over 25 years, is already close to \u201cgrid parity\u201d, simply because Indian solar panels are so much more productive. Government subsidies have in the past been provided for small-scale users \u2013\u00a0though these were recently cut, from 30% to 15% of installation costs, while only 15% those who deployed solar panels ever claimed them anyway. In India, even without subsidy, solar is becoming competitive with electricity from coal.According to Puri, the price of solar electricity has fallen from Rs13 to Rs6.5 per 1KW/hr unit over the past five years \u2013 very close to the Rs6 cost of thermal power from coal. However, recent reforms to the finance of long-term infrastructure debt are reducing the gap still further. Puri added: \u201cEveryone expects interest rates [currently a ruinous 10- 12%] to come down. If that happens, solar is going to hit grid parity, irrespective of any technical discoveries, within the next two years.\u201dA well-sited solar panel in India will produce energy up to 22% of the time, as against perhaps 8% in the UKIn the past five years, Puri\u2019s balance sheet has been split, two to one, in favour of coal over renewables. He said that over the next five years, he intends to reverse that balance, with \u00a31bn going to coal and close to \u00a33bn to solar \u2013 making Hindustan Powerprojects easily India\u2019s biggest renewables investor.Behind that decision is the fact that during the growth slowdown after 2011, very few new coal power plants were commissioned, while most of the private power firms which have come to dominate the industry are financially \u201cdistressed\u201d.The reasons are complex. They partly stem from the chaotic and indebted state of the \u201cdiscoms\u201d, or distribution companies, the middlemen in India\u2019s electricity industry, which buy power from generators and sell it to consumers. Artificially low tariffs imposed by state governments mean that discoms deliberately restrict supply, preferring to make power cuts than to increase their losses by selling power at prices below its purchase cost. There has also been a widespread failure to take action against rampant electricity theft in informal urban settlements. The upshot is that most coal plants are operating at only 60% capacity \u2013 for the time being, there is a surprising degree of slack in the system.But Puri said that if the economy \u201cdoes start to roar again\u201d in the way that Modi intends, the country will face a serious power shortfall by 2017. Even if new coal plants started to be planned today, they would not avert this problem: it usually takes seven-to-10 years for a freshly conceived coal plant to become operational.On the other hand, solar projects can typically be realised within 12 to 18 months. \u201cThe inactivity in commissioning new thermal plants over the last three years leaves India no choice but to go out and build solar capacity. That means India can overcome the crisis of electricity shortages, have cleaner air, have a more stable grid and go say nice things at the climate change negotiations in Paris.\u201dWithout storage technology far in advance of what exists today, coal will still have to provide India\u2019s \u201cbaseload\u201d: lights and air conditioning at night; power for the factories Modi wants to see built. But beyond 2030, anything is possible. \u201cI think the entire energy landscape is going to change in the next 30 years,\u201d Puri said. \u201cStorage is going to revolutionise it. I also think solar energy will become much cheaper than coal. So why would you build a coal thermal plant?\u201dThere are other solar niches. The unreliability of India\u2019s grid power means the country possesses a staggering 80GW of expensive, off-grid, liquid-fuel generating capacity, most from highly polluting diesel generators. Typically, consumers pay about Rs18 per unit for it when their grid power goes off \u2013 three times the usual price.In Noida, a burgeoning satellite city on the outskirts of the Delhi megalopolis, Kushagara Nandan runs Sunsource Energy, a solar start-up. Educated in the US, he cut his teeth on a similar outfit based in New Jersey. Last year, Sunsource revenues quintupled, to \u00a36m.Part of his business is supplying rooftop units which, when the sun is shining, can fill the gap caused by grid outages far more cheaply than diesel: \u201cWe synchronise grid, diesel and solar together. In Delhi alone, the potential for rooftop solar is at least 1.5GW.\u201d One of his projects, rated at 250KW, adorns the Habitat Centre, a complex that includes conference venues, auditoria, restaurants and art galleries. Another 500KW array has allowed a school to save 20% on its power bills.Cheap, off-grid solar also has great potential in India\u2019s vast rural hinterland. Last year, a solar project to desalinate briny ground water from wells and power irrigation pumps at a village in the southern state of Andhra Pradesh, which Sunsource helped develop with an Indian NGO, was given a Google Global Impact Challenge award. It worked so well that it has now been rolled out in five different villages.Like Ratul Puri, Nandan is a businessman. He is in solar primarily to make money. He urged caution: \u201cUnrealistic expectations must not be raised. It\u2019s crucial to realise that solar must be part of the mix \u2013 it cannot substitute for other sources. For the foreseeable future, India doesn\u2019t have a choice between coal and solar. It needs both.\u201dPragmatism of this kind of now characterises other parts of Indian discourse over energy and the environment. There is, for example, little dispute that the pollution caused in earlier phases of mining and power generation at Singrauli is unacceptable. \u201cThere\u2019s about 80GW \u2013 40% of India\u2019s capacity \u2013 that is either in such disrepair or so dirty that it needs to be replaced,\u201d said Puri. \u201cThe open trucks transporting coal and so on are a short-term phenomenon. No one in their right mind would transport coal by truck.\u201dFor the past two years, Ashwani Dubey, a Delhi lawyer who was brought up in Singrauli, has been fighting a case to force the mine and power plant operators to clean up their act in the National Green Tribunal, a powerful judicial body that rules on environmental matters. In written evidence to the court issued in March, India\u2019s Central Pollution Control Board recommended stringent measures, including the end of ash discharge into the Rihand reservoir by 31 July, and much stricter monitoring of air and water quality. Where necessary, remedial measures should be taken within six months \u2013 to be funded on the \u201cpolluter pays principle\u201d. Within a few months, the open coal trucks are supposed to be gone \u2013 replaced by a closed \u201cmerry-go-round\u201d railway linking mines to power plants.Northern Coalfields now has an environmental team in Singrauli, led by BK Sharma. As parts of the mines are worked out, it \u201cback-fills\u201d the overburden in an effort restore the landscape, and replants native species: \u201cWe are trying to recreate the forest, so that when we leave, it will merge into the ecology of the area,\u201d Sharma said.It sounds utopian. But trees in central India grow fast, and on a visit to what was a part of the Nigahi mine, it was hard to distinguish between remediated pit and original forest. Meanwhile, following a Green Tribunal order, nine village water treatment units have been installed this year. By the end of June, a further 15 are meant to be operational.There are further developments at the national level. Under the new mining law, a third of the money raised by the mining royalty \u2013 a 15% levy on all mine revenue, payable to state governments \u2013 must be given to communities in mine-affected areas, to be spent as they determine. The details have yet to be worked out. But according to Chandra Bushan of the Centre for Science and Environment, \u201cthis is a revolutionary development with huge implications for the entire developing world\u201d.It is to be applied immediately, to old mines and new, and should mean the \u201cdarkness around the candle\u201d seen in places such as Simplex will end. \u201cSingrauli could become one of the richest districts in the country,\u201d said Bushan. \u201cNow we must make sure the money is spent on the right things.\u201dMeanwhile, the government has just introduced new pollution standards for coal plant technology \u2013 as strict as any in the world. \u201cYou will no longer be able to burn coal cheaply and pollute,\u201d said Bushan. Under these rules, old plants such as Shaktinagar and Anpara A will have to be scrapped.Bushan warned that better regulations would not necessarily be enforced. \u201cThe arm of the law is not always long in India. But there are certain trends that are positive. I am impressed quite frankly with the Modi government on these issues. They\u2019ve done more than I expected.\u201dWhere does all this leave India in the run-up to Paris? According to Navroz Dubash, what India and other developing countries need are not rigid emissions targets, but programmes designed to \u201cbend the curve\u201d \u2013 to make emissions lower in the five years after 2020 than they would have been otherwise. The changing format of UN climate negotiations makes this easier to achieve. The diplomatic focus now is not on emissions targets but what are termed INDCs \u2013\u00a0each country\u2019s \u201cintended nationally determined contribution\u201d. These, Dubash said, \u201cprovide an opportunity to dissolve the barrier between development and climate needs\u201d.Measures Dubash would like to see in India\u2019s INDC include its targets for solar energy, better building standards, shifting freight from road to rail, low-energy ceiling fans, and widespread use of LEDs. Most are already in the pipeline: Javadekar said India is about to announce a massive plan to replace city street lights with low-energy LEDs.That approach may allow India to plot the delicate course between environmental and developmental needs. \u201cAs an old UN hand, I must tell you that we only distinguish between success and outstanding success,\u201d Nitin Desai joked. \u201c2015 will be a success. The issue is how great it will be.\u201d\u2022 Follow the Guardian Long Read on Twitter: @gdnlongread", "tags": ["India", "Fossil fuels", "Energy", "Coal", "Solar power", "Renewable energy", "Environment", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Global development", "Natural resources and development"], "title": "Why India is captured by carbon | David Rose"},{"date": "2015-05-25T08:10:38Z", "country": "india", "content": "More than 500 people are believed to have died in a heatwave in India as temperatures approach 50C (122F) in parts of the country.Allahabad, a city in the north, saw the mercury touch 47.7 C (117.8F) on Sunday, according to local media. In Delhi, the capital, a high of 43.5C (110.3F) was recorded.Most of the recorded deaths, primarily from heatstroke and extreme dehydration, have been in rural areas in the south, where roads and markets were deserted in many cities and towns. Local authorities announced a compensation payment of \u00a31,000 to relatives of those killed.The forecast is for a continuing \u201cheatwave to severe heatwave\u201d for the rest of the month. \u201cIt is hot. It will stay hot. People must stay inside and drink lots of water,\u201d Devendra Sharma, an official at the Indian meteorological office said. In the city of Kolkata, in the east, taxi drivers refused to work between 11am and 4pm after a driver died in his cab.Across the country, there were power cuts as India\u2019s inadequate electricity networks sought to fulfil record demand. Shopping malls, which are air-conditioned and often have their own generators to keep customers cool during frequent outages, recorded a surge in visitors.\u201cWe see more and more people walk in, spend some time here and walk out without buying anything. But we understand. It\u2019s terribly hot outside,\u201d Nasir, a security guard at a mall in the city of Patna, told the Times of India newspaper. In Delhi, where temperatures were four degrees higher than the seasonal average, many sought sanctuary in the air-conditioned metro. The highest temperature ever recorded in the capital was 47.2C (116.9F), in May 1944. The record India is thought to be 50.6C (123F), recorded in 1956 in the northern town of Alwar (pdf).The death toll is worse than the severe heatwave in 2010, which started much earlier, registered the highest temperatures for decades and lasted for months. The monsoon, predicted to hit southern India\u2019s coastline on 31 May, will bring relief from the high temperatures, but it will not reach the parched north of the country for several weeks.", "tags": ["India", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Meteorology", "Science"], "title": "India heatwave kills more than 500 people"},{"date": "2015-06-11T15:31:19Z", "country": "india", "content": "iPhones could soon be made in India as well as China, according to Indian government officials.Apple\u2019s manufacturing partner Foxconn, which makes the iPhone, iPad and several other Apple products in factories in China, is in talks to open factories in India to make iPhones.The move would help Foxconn mitigate accelerating labour costs in China, potentially lower prices for iPhones sold in India and move the site of construction closer to buyers in the world\u2019s third-largest smartphone market.\u201cFoxconn is sending a delegation of their officers to scout for locations in a month\u2019s time,\u201d said Subhash Desai, industries minister of India\u2019s western state Maharashtra.Lower production costs could also help Foxconn keep hold of Apple orders amid intensifying competition with nimble manufacturing rivals such as Quanta Computer Inc.Foxconn, the world\u2019s largest contract manufacturer of consumer electronics, has said it is aiming to develop 10-12 facilities in India, including factories and data centres, by 2020, but had given no detail.The Taiwan-based company declined to comment on detailed plans on Thursday, citing commercial sensitivity. Apple did not respond to comment. Desai said Foxconn had yet to make any firm commitment at this stage.India has the second-highest number of mobile phone accounts behind China. According to networking company Cisco Systems, there will be 650m smartphones in the country by 2019. The number of tablets will rise 9% to 18.7m by then.Apple holds 10% of the smartphone market in India, according to data from Counterpoint, and faces tough competition from arch-rival Samsung and local brands such as Micromax, which produce similarly specified smartphones for around half the cost than an iPhone 6, or less.Foxconn is no stranger to India. It ran operations in India until last year producing Nokia devices. Its return to the country would be a boon for India\u2019s manufacturing industry, which prime minister Narendra Modi has made a target for a reboot to rival China.A lack of good infrastructure and suppliers are the biggest hurdles to making technology products in the country, forcing most of India\u2019s more than 100 different phone companies to get their products from the mature markets of China and Taiwan.\u2022 China\u2019s Baidu could beat Google to self-driving car with BMW", "tags": ["Apple", "iPhone", "Technology", "India", "World news", "Foxconn", "Manufacturing sector", "Business", "Smartphones", "South and Central Asia", "Mobile phones"], "title": "Apple iPhones could soon be built in India"},{"date": "2015-06-06T16:45:55Z", "country": "india", "content": "Bangladesh and India have sealed a deal to swap border territories, more than 40 years after it was negotiated.The prime ministers of both countries watched as bureaucrats signed the pact in Dhaka, Bangladesh\u2019s capital. The deal, reached in 1974 but only recently ratified by India\u2019s parliament, will be seen as a major achievement for Narendra Modi, the Indian prime minister, who won a landslide election last year to take power. \u201c[The deal] will make our borders more secure and people\u2019s lives more stable,\u201d the 64-year-old leader said.Modi has had difficulty delivering achievements domestically, but has been active on the international scene and compared the agreement with the dismantling of the Berlin Wall.\u201c[Foreign policy] is one area where there has been unexpected and major progress,\u201d said C Raja Mohan, an Indian foreign affairs analyst. \u201cThis will open the door for significant co-operations and economic engagement.\u201dJust an hour after Modi\u2019s arrival in Dhaka, top Indian conglomerates signed outline agreements with Bangladesh\u2019s state-run electricity agency to invest some $5bn in the country\u2019s rickety power sector.Indian officials said yesterday\u2019s agreement sent an important signal that the border disputes that plague India\u2019s relations with other regional powers could be solved, but added that disagreements with Bangladesh were easier to resolve than those with rival Asian giant China, or with Pakistan, with which India has fought four wars.The agreement was also a boost for Sheikh Hasina, the prime minister of Bangladesh. Hasina won a disputed election last year which was boycotted by the opposition and dismissed as lacking credibility by some western governments. She has been criticised since for cracking down on dissent.Scores of people have been killed in firebomb attacks on vehicles since opposition leaders called a transport blockade at the start of the year in an attempt to oust the current government. Relations between India and its smaller neighbour have significantly improved since Hasina promised her administration would not allow India\u2019s separatist insurgents to use the porous 2,500-mile border to carry out raids. Eighteen soldiers died in an ambush blamed on the separatists last week. The Indian army helped Bangladesh gain independence from Pakistan in a bloody nine-month war in 1971 and relations have usually been warm.There are hopes now that the border agreement will also boost trade. It will allow tens of thousands of people living in 162 enclaves resulting from ownership arrangements made centuries ago by local princes either side of the border enclaves to choose their nationality after decades of stateless limbo. \u201cThis is a way of cleaning up the mess left by partition [of British India in 1947],\u201d said Mohan. India\u2019s parliament only gave its approval last month.People living in the enclaves will be allowed to choose to live in India or Bangladesh, with the option of being granted citizenship in the newly designated territories, and the enclaves would effectively cease to exist.Wary of China\u2019s growing interest in India\u2019s backyard, Modi has been keen to play a greater leadership role in South Asia since coming to power.He is set to meet Khaleda Zia, the main Bangladesh opposition leader. Indian officials have played down the idea of Modi playing a mediation role in the dispute between Hasina and Zia, although he might press on Zia to ensure an end to anti-government attacks.India held off from criticising Hasina\u2019s re-election in January 2014.", "tags": ["India", "Bangladesh", "Narendra Modi", "World news"], "title": "India and Bangladesh seal border deal, four decades later"},{"date": "2015-05-27T05:00:29Z", "country": "india", "content": "Beneath a sky made opaque by billowing dust, a mechanised shovel driver steered his vehicle toward the vast wall of an open coal mine. It was the middle of a central Indian summer afternoon, and outside, the temperature had hit 45C. Up in the cab, 15 metres above the black, shiny ground, it was comfortable, air-conditioned.The driver tipped the steel-toothed rim of the shovel\u2019s bucket downwards, then slammed it into the coal seam wall in front of him. A few hours earlier, a drilling rig mounted on caterpillar tracks had drilled deep holes into the coal from the flat ground above, and filled them with explosives. Their detonation broke the coal into diggable chunks, some of them pebbles, others a metre across.The seam being worked was 20 metres thick, and lay some 300 metres beneath what was once the ground\u2019s surface \u2013 the deeper of two black stripes of coal. Overlying the seams, until it was blasted and dug away, were much larger quantities of grey-brown shale, what miners call \u201coverburden\u201d. Having been stripped from the coal, it lay stacked up in mountainous piles on either side of the mine, the walls of an artificial Grand Canyon. The surface area of this mine, Dudhichua, is 16 square\u00a0kilometres.In the year ending March 2015, Dudhichua produced 15m tonnes of coal \u2013 more than the UK\u2019s entire remaining production. But it is only one of 16 mines in the Singrauli coalfield, which spans parts of two districts in Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. All but one are owned by the state-run Northern Coalfields Ltd, a subsidiary of Coal India, one of the country\u2019s biggest firms. As is the case with other Indian coalfields, Singrauli is home to numerous coal-fired thermal electricity plants, some almost on the doorstep of the mines. Their current aggregate capacity is about 20 gigawatts, nearly 10% of India\u2019s total national generating capacity. (By comparison, peak electricity demand for the entire UK is only 57GW.)Singrauli may be one of India\u2019s biggest energy hubs, but it is also isolated. Apart from the mines and power stations, the coalfield is home to a handful of towns, poverty-stricken villages and some prosperous corporate \u201ccolonies\u201d, with their own schools, sports fields and clinics. To visit the area involves a 220km drive from the nearest airport at Varanasi, on a chaotic road that often lacks a proper surface: the journey\u00a0can easily take eight hours. Phone signals and internet\u00a0are intermittent. The only communications that really work are the high-voltage power lines that carry Singrauli\u2019s output to the teeming cities of northern India\u2019s plains. Last year, the coalfield\u2019s total production was about 87m tonnes. (When the British coal industry began to decline with the outbreak of the 1984 miners\u2019 strike, it was producing about 130m tonnes annually.)Singrauli\u2019s significance \u2013 and that of the subcontinent\u2019s many other coalfields, which span the length and breadth of\u00a0India, with further large reserves in Pakistan \u2013 extends globally. In 2013, the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) reported that in order to restrict the increase of world average temperatures to 2C above pre-industrial times, the world must adopt a strict \u201ccarbon budget\u201d for emissions. According to the IPCC, the current rate of fossil fuel burning will exhaust this within 25 years, after which fuels must either be left unexploited, or have their emissions kept from the atmosphere by carbon capture and storage.India has the world\u2019s fifth-largest coal reserves \u2013\u00a0and very few cleaner fossil fuels, such as natural gas. Its leaders are also determined to spread the benefits of economic\u00a0development more widely among its population of almost 1.3bn people \u2013\u00a0one third of whom still have no access to\u00a0electricity.Anil Swarup, the permanent secretary at the coal ministry in Delhi, said in an interview that last year Indian production from both private and state-owned mines was 620m tonnes, more than 85% of it from open-cast workings. A further 400m tonnes were imported. At Singrauli and elsewhere, he added, production is set to increase rapidly, with strong encouragement from the rightwing Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, which swept to power last year. Modi is determined to restore the sustained GDP growth rate of 8-10% that India enjoyed for a decade until 2011.\u201cWe are looking to double Indian coal production by 2020,\u201d Swarup said, \u201cand to reduce reliance on imports.\u201d Beyond that date, he said production would continue to rise to 1.5bn tonnes a year, with most of this being burnt in coal-fired power plants. In the past six months, the government has given environmental clearance to 41 new mining projects. The consequence, Swarup said, is that from now until 2020, \u201ca new mine will be opened every month. You have to work on the assumption of requirement, and in India, there is a need for power.\u201dLast August, the Indian supreme court ruled that more than 200 mining licences awarded by governments before 2010 were illegal, forcing the cancellation of numerous planned projects. The system that its judgment set aside had already been shown to be rife with corruption. The most prominent casualty of India\u2019s \u201cCoalgate\u201d scandal was the former Congress prime minister Manmohan Singh, who last month came close to criminal indictment.Enshrined in a law enacted by Modi\u2019s government is a new scheme under which coal blocks are auctioned to the highest bidder. It hugely incentivises state governments to foster new mines. According to Swarup, the auctions of the 209 blocks that have been sold off to date have raised about \u00a317bn \u2013 money that will swell state coffers for the next 30 years: \u201cThis will change the states\u2019 economies. They were really strapped for money. Now they will get it.\u201dMany of the richest untapped reserves lie in heavily forested areas, some near Singrauli in Madhya Pradesh, but mainly in Chattisgarh and Jharkand in central India. There, those whose land will be subject to \u201cacquisition\u201d are some of India\u2019s poorest inhabitants, many of them Adivasis \u2013\u00a0members of indigenous tribes.Swarup insisted that preserving the environment was a high priority for those overseeing India\u2019s new coal boom. \u201cSeeing how the environment can be maintained is a crucial part of this. Whenever I talk to my officers, I say the environment is non-negotiable. But there is no viable alternative to developing more coal. Energy requirements have to be met.\u201dTo many western environmentalists, who are determined to see a binding global deal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions at the UN climate change conference in Paris later this year, India\u2019s rising coal use is anathema. However, across a broad range of Delhi politicians and policymakers there is near unanimity. There is, they say, simply no possibility that at this stage in its development India will agree to any form of emissions cap, let alone a cut. Even a pledge of the kind made by China\u2019s leader Xi Jinping after talks with US president\u00a0Barack Obama last year, that Chinese emissions would rise to a peak in 2030 and thereafter decline, would be out of the question.This issue \u2013 the balance between the environment and growth \u2013 arises in every developing country. But India\u2019s sheer size means that its resolution is of exceptional significance.Modi has spoken repeatedly of India\u2019s \u201cright to growth\u201d. Prakash Javadekar, the cabinet minister responsible for the environment, forests and climate change, enlarged on this in blunt terms, speaking in his office at the Rajya Sabha, the upper house of India\u2019s parliament: \u201cOur emissions will grow because we are not developed and we have a right, every person on this Earth has a right, to develop. If today the world is 0.8C warmer [than it was in pre-industrial times], it is not my fault. It is the historical responsibility of those who started emitting with the industrial revolution.\u201d (However, largely because of its sheer size and population, India is one of the ten biggest historical emitters, having contributed around 7% to the warming the world has seen so far, compared to 20% for the US and 5% for the UK.)He cited a Hindi political slogan, taken up by the BJP in its struggle to eclipse the once-impregnable Congress Party: \u201cSinghasan khali karo ki janata aati hai,\u201d which roughly means \u201cVacate the throne, the people are coming.\u201d In Javadekar\u2019s view, for now and for years to come, responsibility for reducing global emissions must be borne by the west: \u201cThey must vacate the carbon space because we are coming. We are developing.\u201dUnderlying that insistence are some brutal facts. India is famously the world\u2019s largest democracy, and is often said to possess the world\u2019s biggest \u201cmiddle class\u201d. But in India this term has a meaning very different to its usage in the west. Navroz Dubash, the head of the climate initiative at Delhi\u2019s Centre for Policy Research, pointed out that among the richest 10% of Indians, a third live in households which have no refrigerators. In the next richest 10%, only 45% have refrigerators, and in the 10% after that, only 28%. At the mid-point of India\u2019s income distribution, the proportion of fridge owners is just 10%.Among the richest 10% of Indians, a third live in households which have no refrigeratorsDubash, a lead author of the IPCC\u2019s reports, is personally in no doubt as to the need to reduce global emissions. But he said that the limited reach of refrigerators \u2013 which India\u2019s climate would seem to make indispensable \u2013 \u201ctells you scary things. If you ask people with that level of access to energy to tighten their belts, that\u2019s a very big ask. It means that emissions inevitably have to grow.\u201d In India, he added, the number of people who consume as much energy as anyone deemed to be above the official poverty line in the developed world is, at most, a few tens of millions. Everyone else consumes less. \u201cFrom a global perspective, you have to give India carbon headroom.\u201dDubash is the principal author of a recent report that examines seven separate projections of India\u2019s future energy needs and likely emissions. All of them \u2013 from institutions including government departments, the World Bank and TERI, the Energy and Resources Institute headed until recently by Raj Pachauri, the former IPCC chairman \u2013 state that both coal-fired power and Indian greenhouse gas emissions are set to increase substantially.\u201cBy 2030, coal use is projected \u2026 to be 2.5-three times current levels,\u201d the report says. Even with stringent policy action to increase the deployment of renewables and increase energy efficiency, \u201ccoal use is projected by all but one study to be more than two times current levels\u201d. (Although India has a small nuclear industry \u2013 which provides less than 5% of its electricity \u2013 attempts to expand it have met strong political resistance. Any new nuclear capacity would take years to build and bring online, so it cannot be expected to fill the country\u2019s energy needs any time soon.)The consequence is that if, as the projections suggest, India\u2019s emissions grow between two and three times by 2030, \u201cIndia could be the second largest global emitter within the next decade.\u201d Its projected output\u00a0\u2013 between 4bn and 5.7bn tonnes of carbon dioxide each year \u2013\u00a0will surpass that of the US, which in 2011 was 5.3bn tonnes and falling, and be smaller only than China\u2019s.India\u2019s population is set to outstrip China\u2019s by 2028. But while its total emissions will be high, they will be nowhere near as great, on a per capita basis, as those of more developed countries. The Xi\u2013Obama deal was based on the notion that by 2030, the two nations will reach per capita emissions \u201cconvergence\u201d, with each person responsible for producing 14 tonnes of carbon each year. By that date, Prakash Javadekar said, the figure for the average Indian will be just 4 tonnes, a little over twice as much as today: \u201cIndia will never reach the Chinese-American convergence point. Every climate action has a cost, but I can\u2019t tax my poor.\u201d Even in 2030, Indian per capita emissions are expected to remain below the current world average.Dubash\u2019s report regards all the projections as flawed: they tend to assume sustained high GDP growth, which may not be achievable, and there is a wide divergence between them. \u201cWe don\u2019t have a very solid set of analytical inputs, and the projections are not robust,\u201d Dubash said. For that reason alone, \u201cstringent pledges would be unwise, because there is too much uncertainty\u201d.Similar opinions can be found in Delhi among people of very different political stripes. There are a few dissenters, such as Greenpeace India \u2013\u00a0which led a campaign by local people to resist the development of a new mine in Singrauli that was finally cancelled last year. Since then, the government has taken steps to curb its activities, freezing all its bank accounts on the grounds that it received donations from abroad. But Greenpeace remains on the margins of India\u2019s debate.According to Barun Mitra, the director of the Liberty Institute, a free-market think tank, \u201cin a country where a third of the population doesn\u2019t have electricity, binding emissions limits are a fairy tale\u201d.Nitin Desai is a retired UN diplomat, who organised the 1992 Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro and later represented the UN secretary-general at international climate conferences. He is now a member of a small expert panel advising Modi in the lead-up to Paris. \u201cIn a country with blackouts and so many people without access to electricity, can I really manage without developing more coal?\u201d he asked. \u201cWhy should we be accountable? The pressure should be on the countries whose per capita emissions are much higher. If you try to force India to adopt emissions targets, you will fail.\u201dThe last time US and European leaders made a serious push for a binding global deal, at the 2009 climate conference in Copenhagen, India\u2019s delegation was led by Jairam Ramesh, who did Javedekar\u2019s job in the then-Congress-led government. As a minister, he was mercilessly attacked for holding up development on environmental grounds. He said: \u201cThe idea that India can set targets in Paris is completely ridiculous and unrealistic. It will not happen. This is a difficult concept for eco-fundamentalists, and I say this as a guy who is considered in India to be very green.\u201dCopenhagen, he said, failed because of what he termed \u201cclimate evangelism. I was sitting for days with Gordon Brown, Ed Miliband, Angela Merkel, Barack Obama and Sarkozy. It was absolutely bizarre. It failed because of an excess of evangelical zeal, of which Brown was the chief proponent. It should not happen again.\u201dHe added: \u201cEven with the most aggressive strategy on nuclear, wind, hydro and solar, coal will still provide 55% of electricity consumption by 2030, which means coal consumption will be 2.5 or three times higher than at present. Mining and burning coal imposes huge environmental burdens. It\u2019s a double whammy: the more coal we extract, the more forest we lose, and that too will add to global warming.\u201dNevertheless, he concluded, \u201cI don\u2019t see any alternative other than at least to double India\u2019s coal consumption in the next 15 years.\u201dIn Singrauli, the \u201cenvironmental burdens\u201d imposed by mining and burning coal are not difficult to spot.Some of the area\u2019s power stations date back to the 1970s, and their chimneys, which are almost 300m high, belch great plumes of thick, oily smoke. Coal power station chimneys are supposed to be fitted with electrostatic precipitators, devices to stop ash being emitted into the atmosphere. But Singrauli coal\u2019s ash content is high, up to 40%, and the people who live in the shadow of the older plants say houses, vehicles and other exposed surfaces will often be coated in a thick, grey film.\u201cNo one dries their washing outside round here,\u201d said Dr KK Aggarwal, who runs a clinic in the town of Anpara, the site of four big plants, two of them old and two extremely new \u2013 the newest, Anpara D, began to come on stream this month. \u201cMany of my patients suffer from respiratory problems, such as asthma, nasal conditions, bronchitis, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. There are also skin conditions such as eczema and psoriasis.\u201d He is convinced the incidence of such conditions is higher than it should be because of the mines and power plants. \u201cPollution is everywhere.\u201dSome of Singrauli\u2019s mine and power plant operators have already taken elaborate steps to reduce discharges into the air and water. Gigantic water sprayers and closed conveyor belts carrying coal from mine to power station keep dust to a minimum. The chimneys at the newest stations, Anpara C and D, and the nearby \u201csuper critical\u201d plant run by the private firm Reliance, India\u2019s biggest company, emit no visible smoke at all \u2013 and use only three-quarters as much coal as older stations.Elsewhere, however, the noxious odour of coal dust hangs in the air, and after a few minutes outside, one senses gritty particles in the recesses of one\u2019s mouth and throat. Some of the mines still ship their coal in open trucks, coating roadside trees, ground and buildings in layers of black grime. One of the worst places is the huge yard on the outskirts of Singrauli town, where loads are transferred from the trucks to railway wagons. At the yard entrance there\u2019s a mini-roundabout, adorned with a seven-metre sculpture of a clenched fist, a monument to India\u2019s trade unions. The fist, once red, is stained the deepest black.Since 2010, the Indian government has designated Singrauli a \u201ccritically polluted area\u201d. In 2012, Delhi\u2019s prestigious Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) tested Singrauli\u2019s water supplies, along with fish from local reservoirs, human blood and hair samples. In all, the study found high levels of mercury: in one village, water from pumps contained 26 times\u00a0the maximum safe limit laid down by the Bureau of Indian Standards. Some of the hair samples had five times the \u201csafe\u201d concentration, while the fish contained twice the recommended level.The CSE study also found high incidences of vitiligo, shivers, impaired vision, and burning sensation in the limbs, all recognised effects of mercury. Continued exposure, the study reported, might lead to depression, memory loss, and kidney damage. Chandra Bushan, the CSE\u2019s deputy director and one of the study\u2019s authors, told me the source of the mercury was evident: \u201cfly ash\u201d from Singrauli\u2019s power plants.Fly ash has its uses \u2013 for example, in making cement. But for decades, untold thousands of tonnes have been collected from the chimneys, mixed with water and then discharged into the Singrauli environment in the form of grey slurry, left to dry and blow about in vast, open air \u201cash decks\u201d.Filthiest of all is the treatment of ash from Anpara A, commissioned in 1987, and Anpara B, which began to generate power seven years later. From the plants, a row of pipes carries the slurry to a series of huge ponds, where the ash is supposed to settle out. But the system does not work. From the third and final pond, the milky, polluted liquid tumbles over a grey cascade into the Rihand reservoir, the source of drinking water for the entire Singrauli region. Where the slurry meets the blue reservoir waters, there is a clear and visible boundary. Once the ash is in the reservoir, there is no way to get rid of it.In one of the ponds, Ram Pri, a landless Adivasi, was up to his waist in liquid muck, sieving out the ash in order to decant it into 33kg bags, which are used to make cement. He said he gets paid Rs50 \u2013 about 50p \u2013 per bag, and by this perilous, toxic labour, can make Rs200\u2013300 a day. His wife used to help him, \u201cbut she can\u2019t any longer: her feet, her knees and ankles are all swollen. She\u2019s not able to walk. Maybe that\u2019s because of what\u2019s in the water.\u201dHis is not the only local family to have derived little benefit from the Singrauli coal and power boom. For more than 20 years, several thousand mainly Adivasi people have been living in Simplex, a concrete shanty town adjoining the perimeter wall of the 4.7GW Vindhyachal power plant \u2013 one of the biggest in India. The colony was built to house workers who built the plant\u2019s early phases, and its high-voltage output lines run directly overhead.Astonishingly, Simplex is still not connected to the electricity grid. Its first \u201creverse osmosis\u201d water treatment unit opened only eight months ago. Until then, said Anjani Kumar Chaubey, a local activist, \u201cwe used to get severe gastric problems. The water we took from our handpumps made your skin sting, and in the monsoon, it contained worms. The whole of India gets electricity from this plant, but we are like the darkness around a candle. How can our children study? Sometimes, when there is a lot of wind, the whole area gets covered with ash. A lot of our people get sick.\u201dIn Chilkantanbasti, where 7,000 people live close to a 35-year old coal plant at Shaktinagar, run by the state-owned National Thermal Power Corporation, there is electricity. But the air is some of the region\u2019s dirtiest: \u201cA man gets up here in the morning and he eats coal dust,\u201d said Umar Kand, 19. \u201cHe goes to bed at night, and he\u2019s eating coal dust still. If you put anything out anything out round here, it will have a film of ash within an hour.\u201d The streets stink also of sewage: there is no sanitation, and despite a promise by NTPC two years ago, no water treatment unit. There are three public toilets, but none of them work. Kand shrugged: \u201cWe go in the forest.\u201dChilkatanbasti is exposed to another hazard. There are now strict rules governing the landscaping and afforestation of mine overburden piles, which must be split into tiers and divided by broad, flat \u201cbenches\u201d, with no slope steeper than 37 degrees. When a giant pile from the Kharia mine that looms over the village was created, these rules did not exist, and the result is a tottering brown mountain, its slopes strewn with boulders the size of cars, its surface deeply etched by the water channels that form each monsoon.\u201cWhen it rains, material comes down towards us,\u201d said Renu, a local woman who preferred not to give her surname. \u201cThe police have even come to tell us we should evacuate our houses in case it slips. I\u2019ve seen the rocks falling down the slopes. If it ever went altogether, it would be like a tsunami. But how can we leave our homes?\u201d* * *Speaking to Time magazine earlier this month, Prime Minister Modi failed to answer a question as to whether India would agree any binding emissions curb in Paris. Instead, he waxed lyrical about Indians\u2019 love for nature, a theme echoed by environment minister Javadekar, who insisted: \u201cGrowth and environmental protection are not against each other. We want a clean India, a green India. Clean air is our birthright\u201d \u2013 a statement that any visitor to Delhi, which currently endures the world\u2019s worst particulate air pollution, will appreciate.Yet these may not be empty words. For among the BJP government\u2019s most ambitious acts has been to quintuple the 2022 targets set for non-fossil energy by the previous regime, to 175GW \u2013 almost six times its current level. The most ambitious target of all is that for solar energy, which is meant to rise from just 3GW now to 100GW, in only seven years. No country has ever built solar at anything approaching this pace, and it would leave India with three times as much solar capacity as Germany \u2013 which over the course of decades, has deployed 38.5GW, much more than anywhere else in Europe, and more than twice as much as the United States. Many people, Dubash said, regard the target as \u201caspirational\u201d: the sheer manufacturing requirement, likely to come at first mainly from China, is huge.On the other hand, for very obvious reasons, photovoltaic solar energy is a much more viable proposition in India than it is in northern European countries such as Germany, or for that matter, Britain. A well-sited solar panel in India will produce energy up to 22% of the time, as against perhaps 8% in the UK.Ratul Puri, chairman of Hindustan Powerprojects Ltd, a multibillion-pound company that has invested heavily in both coal and solar, pointed out that solar has a further local advantage: \u201cSolar generation perfectly overlays the demand cycle.\u201d In other words, the hot, dry and sunny months will see solar output peak, just as the demand for irrigation pumps, fans and air conditioning is also at its greatest. During the cooling monsoon, solar output plummets, but so does demand: there is no need for irrigation when it\u2019s pouring with rain.\u201cCan we have 100% of energy in India from solar?\u201d Puri asked. \u201cNo, because I still want to be able to turn on my lights at 9pm at night, when solar is generating nothing. But 15, 20% of our energy coming from solar: we can easily do this in the very near future.\u201dEven in fertile, intensely farmed states such as Punjab, 15% of the land is arid, and unsuitable for irrigation \u2013 but ideal for solar panels. Meanwhile, in distinct contrast to Germany or Britain, the levelised cost of solar energy per 1KW/hr unit, averaged out over 25 years, is already close to \u201cgrid parity\u201d, simply because Indian solar panels are so much more productive. Government subsidies have in the past been provided for small-scale users \u2013\u00a0though these were recently cut, from 30% to 15% of installation costs, while only 15% those who deployed solar panels ever claimed them anyway. In India, even without subsidy, solar is becoming competitive with electricity from coal.According to Puri, the price of solar electricity has fallen from Rs13 to Rs6.5 per 1KW/hr unit over the past five years \u2013 very close to the Rs6 cost of thermal power from coal. However, recent reforms to the finance of long-term infrastructure debt are reducing the gap still further. Puri added: \u201cEveryone expects interest rates [currently a ruinous 10- 12%] to come down. If that happens, solar is going to hit grid parity, irrespective of any technical discoveries, within the next two years.\u201dA well-sited solar panel in India will produce energy up to 22% of the time, as against perhaps 8% in the UKIn the past five years, Puri\u2019s balance sheet has been split, two to one, in favour of coal over renewables. He said that over the next five years, he intends to reverse that balance, with \u00a31bn going to coal and close to \u00a33bn to solar \u2013 making Hindustan Powerprojects easily India\u2019s biggest renewables investor.Behind that decision is the fact that during the growth slowdown after 2011, very few new coal power plants were commissioned, while most of the private power firms which have come to dominate the industry are financially \u201cdistressed\u201d.The reasons are complex. They partly stem from the chaotic and indebted state of the \u201cdiscoms\u201d, or distribution companies, the middlemen in India\u2019s electricity industry, which buy power from generators and sell it to consumers. Artificially low tariffs imposed by state governments mean that discoms deliberately restrict supply, preferring to make power cuts than to increase their losses by selling power at prices below its purchase cost. There has also been a widespread failure to take action against rampant electricity theft in informal urban settlements. The upshot is that most coal plants are operating at only 60% capacity \u2013 for the time being, there is a surprising degree of slack in the system.But Puri said that if the economy \u201cdoes start to roar again\u201d in the way that Modi intends, the country will face a serious power shortfall by 2017. Even if new coal plants started to be planned today, they would not avert this problem: it usually takes seven-to-10 years for a freshly conceived coal plant to become operational.On the other hand, solar projects can typically be realised within 12 to 18 months. \u201cThe inactivity in commissioning new thermal plants over the last three years leaves India no choice but to go out and build solar capacity. That means India can overcome the crisis of electricity shortages, have cleaner air, have a more stable grid and go say nice things at the climate change negotiations in Paris.\u201dWithout storage technology far in advance of what exists today, coal will still have to provide India\u2019s \u201cbaseload\u201d: lights and air conditioning at night; power for the factories Modi wants to see built. But beyond 2030, anything is possible. \u201cI think the entire energy landscape is going to change in the next 30 years,\u201d Puri said. \u201cStorage is going to revolutionise it. I also think solar energy will become much cheaper than coal. So why would you build a coal thermal plant?\u201dThere are other solar niches. The unreliability of India\u2019s grid power means the country possesses a staggering 80GW of expensive, off-grid, liquid-fuel generating capacity, most from highly polluting diesel generators. Typically, consumers pay about Rs18 per unit for it when their grid power goes off \u2013 three times the usual price.In Noida, a burgeoning satellite city on the outskirts of the Delhi megalopolis, Kushagara Nandan runs Sunsource Energy, a solar start-up. Educated in the US, he cut his teeth on a similar outfit based in New Jersey. Last year, Sunsource revenues quintupled, to \u00a36m.Part of his business is supplying rooftop units which, when the sun is shining, can fill the gap caused by grid outages far more cheaply than diesel: \u201cWe synchronise grid, diesel and solar together. In Delhi alone, the potential for rooftop solar is at least 1.5GW.\u201d One of his projects, rated at 250KW, adorns the Habitat Centre, a complex that includes conference venues, auditoria, restaurants and art galleries. Another 500KW array has allowed a school to save 20% on its power bills.Cheap, off-grid solar also has great potential in India\u2019s vast rural hinterland. Last year, a solar project to desalinate briny ground water from wells and power irrigation pumps at a village in the southern state of Andhra Pradesh, which Sunsource helped develop with an Indian NGO, was given a Google Global Impact Challenge award. It worked so well that it has now been rolled out in five different villages.Like Ratul Puri, Nandan is a businessman. He is in solar primarily to make money. He urged caution: \u201cUnrealistic expectations must not be raised. It\u2019s crucial to realise that solar must be part of the mix \u2013 it cannot substitute for other sources. For the foreseeable future, India doesn\u2019t have a choice between coal and solar. It needs both.\u201dPragmatism of this kind of now characterises other parts of Indian discourse over energy and the environment. There is, for example, little dispute that the pollution caused in earlier phases of mining and power generation at Singrauli is unacceptable. \u201cThere\u2019s about 80GW \u2013 40% of India\u2019s capacity \u2013 that is either in such disrepair or so dirty that it needs to be replaced,\u201d said Puri. \u201cThe open trucks transporting coal and so on are a short-term phenomenon. No one in their right mind would transport coal by truck.\u201dFor the past two years, Ashwani Dubey, a Delhi lawyer who was brought up in Singrauli, has been fighting a case to force the mine and power plant operators to clean up their act in the National Green Tribunal, a powerful judicial body that rules on environmental matters. In written evidence to the court issued in March, India\u2019s Central Pollution Control Board recommended stringent measures, including the end of ash discharge into the Rihand reservoir by 31 July, and much stricter monitoring of air and water quality. Where necessary, remedial measures should be taken within six months \u2013 to be funded on the \u201cpolluter pays principle\u201d. Within a few months, the open coal trucks are supposed to be gone \u2013 replaced by a closed \u201cmerry-go-round\u201d railway linking mines to power plants.Northern Coalfields now has an environmental team in Singrauli, led by BK Sharma. As parts of the mines are worked out, it \u201cback-fills\u201d the overburden in an effort restore the landscape, and replants native species: \u201cWe are trying to recreate the forest, so that when we leave, it will merge into the ecology of the area,\u201d Sharma said.It sounds utopian. But trees in central India grow fast, and on a visit to what was a part of the Nigahi mine, it was hard to distinguish between remediated pit and original forest. Meanwhile, following a Green Tribunal order, nine village water treatment units have been installed this year. By the end of June, a further 15 are meant to be operational.There are further developments at the national level. Under the new mining law, a third of the money raised by the mining royalty \u2013 a 15% levy on all mine revenue, payable to state governments \u2013 must be given to communities in mine-affected areas, to be spent as they determine. The details have yet to be worked out. But according to Chandra Bushan of the Centre for Science and Environment, \u201cthis is a revolutionary development with huge implications for the entire developing world\u201d.It is to be applied immediately, to old mines and new, and should mean the \u201cdarkness around the candle\u201d seen in places such as Simplex will end. \u201cSingrauli could become one of the richest districts in the country,\u201d said Bushan. \u201cNow we must make sure the money is spent on the right things.\u201dMeanwhile, the government has just introduced new pollution standards for coal plant technology \u2013 as strict as any in the world. \u201cYou will no longer be able to burn coal cheaply and pollute,\u201d said Bushan. Under these rules, old plants such as Shaktinagar and Anpara A will have to be scrapped.Bushan warned that better regulations would not necessarily be enforced. \u201cThe arm of the law is not always long in India. But there are certain trends that are positive. I am impressed quite frankly with the Modi government on these issues. They\u2019ve done more than I expected.\u201dWhere does all this leave India in the run-up to Paris? According to Navroz Dubash, what India and other developing countries need are not rigid emissions targets, but programmes designed to \u201cbend the curve\u201d \u2013 to make emissions lower in the five years after 2020 than they would have been otherwise. The changing format of UN climate negotiations makes this easier to achieve. The diplomatic focus now is not on emissions targets but what are termed INDCs \u2013\u00a0each country\u2019s \u201cintended nationally determined contribution\u201d. These, Dubash said, \u201cprovide an opportunity to dissolve the barrier between development and climate needs\u201d.Measures Dubash would like to see in India\u2019s INDC include its targets for solar energy, better building standards, shifting freight from road to rail, low-energy ceiling fans, and widespread use of LEDs. Most are already in the pipeline: Javadekar said India is about to announce a massive plan to replace city street lights with low-energy LEDs.That approach may allow India to plot the delicate course between environmental and developmental needs. \u201cAs an old UN hand, I must tell you that we only distinguish between success and outstanding success,\u201d Nitin Desai joked. \u201c2015 will be a success. The issue is how great it will be.\u201d\u2022 Follow the Guardian Long Read on Twitter: @gdnlongread", "tags": ["India", "Fossil fuels", "Energy", "Coal", "Solar power", "Renewable energy", "Environment", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Global development", "Natural resources and development"], "title": "Why India is captured by carbon | David Rose"},{"date": "2015-05-25T08:10:38Z", "country": "india", "content": "More than 500 people are believed to have died in a heatwave in India as temperatures approach 50C (122F) in parts of the country.Allahabad, a city in the north, saw the mercury touch 47.7 C (117.8F) on Sunday, according to local media. In Delhi, the capital, a high of 43.5C (110.3F) was recorded.Most of the recorded deaths, primarily from heatstroke and extreme dehydration, have been in rural areas in the south, where roads and markets were deserted in many cities and towns. Local authorities announced a compensation payment of \u00a31,000 to relatives of those killed.The forecast is for a continuing \u201cheatwave to severe heatwave\u201d for the rest of the month. \u201cIt is hot. It will stay hot. People must stay inside and drink lots of water,\u201d Devendra Sharma, an official at the Indian meteorological office said. In the city of Kolkata, in the east, taxi drivers refused to work between 11am and 4pm after a driver died in his cab.Across the country, there were power cuts as India\u2019s inadequate electricity networks sought to fulfil record demand. Shopping malls, which are air-conditioned and often have their own generators to keep customers cool during frequent outages, recorded a surge in visitors.\u201cWe see more and more people walk in, spend some time here and walk out without buying anything. But we understand. It\u2019s terribly hot outside,\u201d Nasir, a security guard at a mall in the city of Patna, told the Times of India newspaper. In Delhi, where temperatures were four degrees higher than the seasonal average, many sought sanctuary in the air-conditioned metro. The highest temperature ever recorded in the capital was 47.2C (116.9F), in May 1944. The record India is thought to be 50.6C (123F), recorded in 1956 in the northern town of Alwar (pdf).The death toll is worse than the severe heatwave in 2010, which started much earlier, registered the highest temperatures for decades and lasted for months. The monsoon, predicted to hit southern India\u2019s coastline on 31 May, will bring relief from the high temperatures, but it will not reach the parched north of the country for several weeks.", "tags": ["India", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Meteorology", "Science"], "title": "India heatwave kills more than 500 people"},{"date": "2015-06-11T15:31:19Z", "country": "india", "content": "iPhones could soon be made in India as well as China, according to Indian government officials.Apple\u2019s manufacturing partner Foxconn, which makes the iPhone, iPad and several other Apple products in factories in China, is in talks to open factories in India to make iPhones.The move would help Foxconn mitigate accelerating labour costs in China, potentially lower prices for iPhones sold in India and move the site of construction closer to buyers in the world\u2019s third-largest smartphone market.\u201cFoxconn is sending a delegation of their officers to scout for locations in a month\u2019s time,\u201d said Subhash Desai, industries minister of India\u2019s western state Maharashtra.Lower production costs could also help Foxconn keep hold of Apple orders amid intensifying competition with nimble manufacturing rivals such as Quanta Computer Inc.Foxconn, the world\u2019s largest contract manufacturer of consumer electronics, has said it is aiming to develop 10-12 facilities in India, including factories and data centres, by 2020, but had given no detail.The Taiwan-based company declined to comment on detailed plans on Thursday, citing commercial sensitivity. Apple did not respond to comment. Desai said Foxconn had yet to make any firm commitment at this stage.India has the second-highest number of mobile phone accounts behind China. According to networking company Cisco Systems, there will be 650m smartphones in the country by 2019. The number of tablets will rise 9% to 18.7m by then.Apple holds 10% of the smartphone market in India, according to data from Counterpoint, and faces tough competition from arch-rival Samsung and local brands such as Micromax, which produce similarly specified smartphones for around half the cost than an iPhone 6, or less.Foxconn is no stranger to India. It ran operations in India until last year producing Nokia devices. Its return to the country would be a boon for India\u2019s manufacturing industry, which prime minister Narendra Modi has made a target for a reboot to rival China.A lack of good infrastructure and suppliers are the biggest hurdles to making technology products in the country, forcing most of India\u2019s more than 100 different phone companies to get their products from the mature markets of China and Taiwan.\u2022 China\u2019s Baidu could beat Google to self-driving car with BMW", "tags": ["Apple", "iPhone", "Technology", "India", "World news", "Foxconn", "Manufacturing sector", "Business", "Smartphones", "South and Central Asia", "Mobile phones"], "title": "Apple iPhones could soon be built in India"},{"date": "2015-06-06T16:45:55Z", "country": "india", "content": "Bangladesh and India have sealed a deal to swap border territories, more than 40 years after it was negotiated.The prime ministers of both countries watched as bureaucrats signed the pact in Dhaka, Bangladesh\u2019s capital. The deal, reached in 1974 but only recently ratified by India\u2019s parliament, will be seen as a major achievement for Narendra Modi, the Indian prime minister, who won a landslide election last year to take power. \u201c[The deal] will make our borders more secure and people\u2019s lives more stable,\u201d the 64-year-old leader said.Modi has had difficulty delivering achievements domestically, but has been active on the international scene and compared the agreement with the dismantling of the Berlin Wall.\u201c[Foreign policy] is one area where there has been unexpected and major progress,\u201d said C Raja Mohan, an Indian foreign affairs analyst. \u201cThis will open the door for significant co-operations and economic engagement.\u201dJust an hour after Modi\u2019s arrival in Dhaka, top Indian conglomerates signed outline agreements with Bangladesh\u2019s state-run electricity agency to invest some $5bn in the country\u2019s rickety power sector.Indian officials said yesterday\u2019s agreement sent an important signal that the border disputes that plague India\u2019s relations with other regional powers could be solved, but added that disagreements with Bangladesh were easier to resolve than those with rival Asian giant China, or with Pakistan, with which India has fought four wars.The agreement was also a boost for Sheikh Hasina, the prime minister of Bangladesh. Hasina won a disputed election last year which was boycotted by the opposition and dismissed as lacking credibility by some western governments. She has been criticised since for cracking down on dissent.Scores of people have been killed in firebomb attacks on vehicles since opposition leaders called a transport blockade at the start of the year in an attempt to oust the current government. Relations between India and its smaller neighbour have significantly improved since Hasina promised her administration would not allow India\u2019s separatist insurgents to use the porous 2,500-mile border to carry out raids. Eighteen soldiers died in an ambush blamed on the separatists last week. The Indian army helped Bangladesh gain independence from Pakistan in a bloody nine-month war in 1971 and relations have usually been warm.There are hopes now that the border agreement will also boost trade. It will allow tens of thousands of people living in 162 enclaves resulting from ownership arrangements made centuries ago by local princes either side of the border enclaves to choose their nationality after decades of stateless limbo. \u201cThis is a way of cleaning up the mess left by partition [of British India in 1947],\u201d said Mohan. India\u2019s parliament only gave its approval last month.People living in the enclaves will be allowed to choose to live in India or Bangladesh, with the option of being granted citizenship in the newly designated territories, and the enclaves would effectively cease to exist.Wary of China\u2019s growing interest in India\u2019s backyard, Modi has been keen to play a greater leadership role in South Asia since coming to power.He is set to meet Khaleda Zia, the main Bangladesh opposition leader. Indian officials have played down the idea of Modi playing a mediation role in the dispute between Hasina and Zia, although he might press on Zia to ensure an end to anti-government attacks.India held off from criticising Hasina\u2019s re-election in January 2014.", "tags": ["India", "Bangladesh", "Narendra Modi", "World news"], "title": "India and Bangladesh seal border deal, four decades later"},{"date": "2015-05-28T12:26:01Z", "country": "india", "content": "The death toll in India\u2019s heatwave has climbed towards 1,500 as the country sweltered in one of the worst bouts of hot weather for several years.Southern India has borne the brunt of the sudden spell of hot, dry weather. So far more than 1,000 people have died in the state of Andhra Pradesh, more than double the total number of heat-related deaths last summer, authorities said.\u201cThis is the highest death toll due to heatwave ever in the state,\u201d said Tulasi Rani, the special commissioner for disaster management in Andhra Pradesh. \u201cLast year around 447 people died due to heat. This year the heatwave is continuing for a longer period than in previous years.\u201d Related: India heatwave kills more than 500 people Rani said temperatures were two to five degrees higher than the seasonal average.The death toll in neighbouring Telangana, where temperatures hit 48C (118F) over the weekend, stood at 340.Dr T Padmaja, the medical and health officer in Andhra Pradesh\u2019s Guntur district, one of the worst affected areas, said leave had been cancelled for doctors.Local authorities across India have launched intensive awareness campaigns, asking people to stay indoors between 1pm and 4pm and advising them to wear broad-brimmed hats and light-coloured cotton clothes, use umbrellas and drink lots of fluid. Among the most vulnerable are older people and poorer people, many of whom live in slums or farm huts with no access to air conditioners or sometimes even trees which could cast shade.Many victims were day labourers, who need to work to eat. \u201cIf I don\u2019t work due to the heat, how will my family survive?\u201d said Mahalakshmi, who earns a 200 rupees (\u00a32) a day as a construction labourer in the southern city of Nizamabad, Telangana state.The homeless were also badly hit. Near one shelter in Delhi, dozens of men tried to keep cool in the shade of nearby trees. Others begged from the drivers of vehicles waiting at nearby traffic lights. \u201cIf they give me anything I spend it on water at the moment not food,\u201d said Deepak Ram Lal, 42.The capital\u2019s air conditioned metro and shopping malls have become much-sought-after havens from the heat, while power cuts in residential areas were frequent as the grid struggled to cope with the demand from millions of air conditioners.Residents of Gurgaon \u2013 a high-rise satellite city, home to many of the Delhi\u2019s workers \u2013 experienced power cuts of up to 10 hours a day. \u201cNothing is working \u2013 even after taking half a dozen baths a day, you can\u2019t beat the heat,\u201d shop owner Manish Singh said. \u201cIt\u2019s worse than previous years; we hardly get any electricity and the air conditioners become useless.\u201dThe heat has melted roads near the capital and caused problems with maintaining animal welfare at farms and the country\u2019s zoos. Brahma Prakash Yadav, director of the Indian meteorological department, said though maximum temperatures would remain high until the weekend, rain would bring some relief early next week (PDF). The highest temperature ever recorded in the capital was 47.2C, in May 1944. The record in India is thought to be 50.6C, recorded in 1956 in the northern town of Alwar.The death toll is worse than the severe heatwave in 2010, which started much earlier, registering the highest temperatures for decades and lasting for months. But experts say compiling casualty statistics for heatwaves is extremely difficult owing to difficulties in attributing cause of death and registering fatalities in remote areas.May and June are India\u2019s hottest months, with temperatures regularly pushing above 40C. But meteorologists say the number of days when temperatures approach 45C has increased in the past 15 years.The monsoon, predicted to hit southern India\u2019s coastline on 31 May, will bring relief from the high temperatures, but it will not reach the parched north of the country for several weeks.", "tags": ["India", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Meteorology"], "title": "India heatwave continues as death toll exceeds 1,000"},{"date": "2015-05-27T05:00:29Z", "country": "india", "content": "Beneath a sky made opaque by billowing dust, a mechanised shovel driver steered his vehicle toward the vast wall of an open coal mine. It was the middle of a central Indian summer afternoon, and outside, the temperature had hit 45C. Up in the cab, 15 metres above the black, shiny ground, it was comfortable, air-conditioned.The driver tipped the steel-toothed rim of the shovel\u2019s bucket downwards, then slammed it into the coal seam wall in front of him. A few hours earlier, a drilling rig mounted on caterpillar tracks had drilled deep holes into the coal from the flat ground above, and filled them with explosives. Their detonation broke the coal into diggable chunks, some of them pebbles, others a metre across.The seam being worked was 20 metres thick, and lay some 300 metres beneath what was once the ground\u2019s surface \u2013 the deeper of two black stripes of coal. Overlying the seams, until it was blasted and dug away, were much larger quantities of grey-brown shale, what miners call \u201coverburden\u201d. Having been stripped from the coal, it lay stacked up in mountainous piles on either side of the mine, the walls of an artificial Grand Canyon. The surface area of this mine, Dudhichua, is 16 square\u00a0kilometres.In the year ending March 2015, Dudhichua produced 15m tonnes of coal \u2013 more than the UK\u2019s entire remaining production. But it is only one of 16 mines in the Singrauli coalfield, which spans parts of two districts in Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. All but one are owned by the state-run Northern Coalfields Ltd, a subsidiary of Coal India, one of the country\u2019s biggest firms. As is the case with other Indian coalfields, Singrauli is home to numerous coal-fired thermal electricity plants, some almost on the doorstep of the mines. Their current aggregate capacity is about 20 gigawatts, nearly 10% of India\u2019s total national generating capacity. (By comparison, peak electricity demand for the entire UK is only 57GW.)Singrauli may be one of India\u2019s biggest energy hubs, but it is also isolated. Apart from the mines and power stations, the coalfield is home to a handful of towns, poverty-stricken villages and some prosperous corporate \u201ccolonies\u201d, with their own schools, sports fields and clinics. To visit the area involves a 220km drive from the nearest airport at Varanasi, on a chaotic road that often lacks a proper surface: the journey\u00a0can easily take eight hours. Phone signals and internet\u00a0are intermittent. The only communications that really work are the high-voltage power lines that carry Singrauli\u2019s output to the teeming cities of northern India\u2019s plains. Last year, the coalfield\u2019s total production was about 87m tonnes. (When the British coal industry began to decline with the outbreak of the 1984 miners\u2019 strike, it was producing about 130m tonnes annually.)Singrauli\u2019s significance \u2013 and that of the subcontinent\u2019s many other coalfields, which span the length and breadth of\u00a0India, with further large reserves in Pakistan \u2013 extends globally. In 2013, the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) reported that in order to restrict the increase of world average temperatures to 2C above pre-industrial times, the world must adopt a strict \u201ccarbon budget\u201d for emissions. According to the IPCC, the current rate of fossil fuel burning will exhaust this within 25 years, after which fuels must either be left unexploited, or have their emissions kept from the atmosphere by carbon capture and storage.India has the world\u2019s fifth-largest coal reserves \u2013\u00a0and very few cleaner fossil fuels, such as natural gas. Its leaders are also determined to spread the benefits of economic\u00a0development more widely among its population of almost 1.3bn people \u2013\u00a0one third of whom still have no access to\u00a0electricity.Anil Swarup, the permanent secretary at the coal ministry in Delhi, said in an interview that last year Indian production from both private and state-owned mines was 620m tonnes, more than 85% of it from open-cast workings. A further 400m tonnes were imported. At Singrauli and elsewhere, he added, production is set to increase rapidly, with strong encouragement from the rightwing Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, which swept to power last year. Modi is determined to restore the sustained GDP growth rate of 8-10% that India enjoyed for a decade until 2011.\u201cWe are looking to double Indian coal production by 2020,\u201d Swarup said, \u201cand to reduce reliance on imports.\u201d Beyond that date, he said production would continue to rise to 1.5bn tonnes a year, with most of this being burnt in coal-fired power plants. In the past six months, the government has given environmental clearance to 41 new mining projects. The consequence, Swarup said, is that from now until 2020, \u201ca new mine will be opened every month. You have to work on the assumption of requirement, and in India, there is a need for power.\u201dLast August, the Indian supreme court ruled that more than 200 mining licences awarded by governments before 2010 were illegal, forcing the cancellation of numerous planned projects. The system that its judgment set aside had already been shown to be rife with corruption. The most prominent casualty of India\u2019s \u201cCoalgate\u201d scandal was the former Congress prime minister Manmohan Singh, who last month came close to criminal indictment.Enshrined in a law enacted by Modi\u2019s government is a new scheme under which coal blocks are auctioned to the highest bidder. It hugely incentivises state governments to foster new mines. According to Swarup, the auctions of the 209 blocks that have been sold off to date have raised about \u00a317bn \u2013 money that will swell state coffers for the next 30 years: \u201cThis will change the states\u2019 economies. They were really strapped for money. Now they will get it.\u201dMany of the richest untapped reserves lie in heavily forested areas, some near Singrauli in Madhya Pradesh, but mainly in Chattisgarh and Jharkand in central India. There, those whose land will be subject to \u201cacquisition\u201d are some of India\u2019s poorest inhabitants, many of them Adivasis \u2013\u00a0members of indigenous tribes.Swarup insisted that preserving the environment was a high priority for those overseeing India\u2019s new coal boom. \u201cSeeing how the environment can be maintained is a crucial part of this. Whenever I talk to my officers, I say the environment is non-negotiable. But there is no viable alternative to developing more coal. Energy requirements have to be met.\u201dTo many western environmentalists, who are determined to see a binding global deal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions at the UN climate change conference in Paris later this year, India\u2019s rising coal use is anathema. However, across a broad range of Delhi politicians and policymakers there is near unanimity. There is, they say, simply no possibility that at this stage in its development India will agree to any form of emissions cap, let alone a cut. Even a pledge of the kind made by China\u2019s leader Xi Jinping after talks with US president\u00a0Barack Obama last year, that Chinese emissions would rise to a peak in 2030 and thereafter decline, would be out of the question.This issue \u2013 the balance between the environment and growth \u2013 arises in every developing country. But India\u2019s sheer size means that its resolution is of exceptional significance.Modi has spoken repeatedly of India\u2019s \u201cright to growth\u201d. Prakash Javadekar, the cabinet minister responsible for the environment, forests and climate change, enlarged on this in blunt terms, speaking in his office at the Rajya Sabha, the upper house of India\u2019s parliament: \u201cOur emissions will grow because we are not developed and we have a right, every person on this Earth has a right, to develop. If today the world is 0.8C warmer [than it was in pre-industrial times], it is not my fault. It is the historical responsibility of those who started emitting with the industrial revolution.\u201d (However, largely because of its sheer size and population, India is one of the ten biggest historical emitters, having contributed around 7% to the warming the world has seen so far, compared to 20% for the US and 5% for the UK.)He cited a Hindi political slogan, taken up by the BJP in its struggle to eclipse the once-impregnable Congress Party: \u201cSinghasan khali karo ki janata aati hai,\u201d which roughly means \u201cVacate the throne, the people are coming.\u201d In Javadekar\u2019s view, for now and for years to come, responsibility for reducing global emissions must be borne by the west: \u201cThey must vacate the carbon space because we are coming. We are developing.\u201dUnderlying that insistence are some brutal facts. India is famously the world\u2019s largest democracy, and is often said to possess the world\u2019s biggest \u201cmiddle class\u201d. But in India this term has a meaning very different to its usage in the west. Navroz Dubash, the head of the climate initiative at Delhi\u2019s Centre for Policy Research, pointed out that among the richest 10% of Indians, a third live in households which have no refrigerators. In the next richest 10%, only 45% have refrigerators, and in the 10% after that, only 28%. At the mid-point of India\u2019s income distribution, the proportion of fridge owners is just 10%.Among the richest 10% of Indians, a third live in households which have no refrigeratorsDubash, a lead author of the IPCC\u2019s reports, is personally in no doubt as to the need to reduce global emissions. But he said that the limited reach of refrigerators \u2013 which India\u2019s climate would seem to make indispensable \u2013 \u201ctells you scary things. If you ask people with that level of access to energy to tighten their belts, that\u2019s a very big ask. It means that emissions inevitably have to grow.\u201d In India, he added, the number of people who consume as much energy as anyone deemed to be above the official poverty line in the developed world is, at most, a few tens of millions. Everyone else consumes less. \u201cFrom a global perspective, you have to give India carbon headroom.\u201dDubash is the principal author of a recent report that examines seven separate projections of India\u2019s future energy needs and likely emissions. All of them \u2013 from institutions including government departments, the World Bank and TERI, the Energy and Resources Institute headed until recently by Raj Pachauri, the former IPCC chairman \u2013 state that both coal-fired power and Indian greenhouse gas emissions are set to increase substantially.\u201cBy 2030, coal use is projected \u2026 to be 2.5-three times current levels,\u201d the report says. Even with stringent policy action to increase the deployment of renewables and increase energy efficiency, \u201ccoal use is projected by all but one study to be more than two times current levels\u201d. (Although India has a small nuclear industry \u2013 which provides less than 5% of its electricity \u2013 attempts to expand it have met strong political resistance. Any new nuclear capacity would take years to build and bring online, so it cannot be expected to fill the country\u2019s energy needs any time soon.)The consequence is that if, as the projections suggest, India\u2019s emissions grow between two and three times by 2030, \u201cIndia could be the second largest global emitter within the next decade.\u201d Its projected output\u00a0\u2013 between 4bn and 5.7bn tonnes of carbon dioxide each year \u2013\u00a0will surpass that of the US, which in 2011 was 5.3bn tonnes and falling, and be smaller only than China\u2019s.India\u2019s population is set to outstrip China\u2019s by 2028. But while its total emissions will be high, they will be nowhere near as great, on a per capita basis, as those of more developed countries. The Xi\u2013Obama deal was based on the notion that by 2030, the two nations will reach per capita emissions \u201cconvergence\u201d, with each person responsible for producing 14 tonnes of carbon each year. By that date, Prakash Javadekar said, the figure for the average Indian will be just 4 tonnes, a little over twice as much as today: \u201cIndia will never reach the Chinese-American convergence point. Every climate action has a cost, but I can\u2019t tax my poor.\u201d Even in 2030, Indian per capita emissions are expected to remain below the current world average.Dubash\u2019s report regards all the projections as flawed: they tend to assume sustained high GDP growth, which may not be achievable, and there is a wide divergence between them. \u201cWe don\u2019t have a very solid set of analytical inputs, and the projections are not robust,\u201d Dubash said. For that reason alone, \u201cstringent pledges would be unwise, because there is too much uncertainty\u201d.Similar opinions can be found in Delhi among people of very different political stripes. There are a few dissenters, such as Greenpeace India \u2013\u00a0which led a campaign by local people to resist the development of a new mine in Singrauli that was finally cancelled last year. Since then, the government has taken steps to curb its activities, freezing all its bank accounts on the grounds that it received donations from abroad. But Greenpeace remains on the margins of India\u2019s debate.According to Barun Mitra, the director of the Liberty Institute, a free-market think tank, \u201cin a country where a third of the population doesn\u2019t have electricity, binding emissions limits are a fairy tale\u201d.Nitin Desai is a retired UN diplomat, who organised the 1992 Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro and later represented the UN secretary-general at international climate conferences. He is now a member of a small expert panel advising Modi in the lead-up to Paris. \u201cIn a country with blackouts and so many people without access to electricity, can I really manage without developing more coal?\u201d he asked. \u201cWhy should we be accountable? The pressure should be on the countries whose per capita emissions are much higher. If you try to force India to adopt emissions targets, you will fail.\u201dThe last time US and European leaders made a serious push for a binding global deal, at the 2009 climate conference in Copenhagen, India\u2019s delegation was led by Jairam Ramesh, who did Javedekar\u2019s job in the then-Congress-led government. As a minister, he was mercilessly attacked for holding up development on environmental grounds. He said: \u201cThe idea that India can set targets in Paris is completely ridiculous and unrealistic. It will not happen. This is a difficult concept for eco-fundamentalists, and I say this as a guy who is considered in India to be very green.\u201dCopenhagen, he said, failed because of what he termed \u201cclimate evangelism. I was sitting for days with Gordon Brown, Ed Miliband, Angela Merkel, Barack Obama and Sarkozy. It was absolutely bizarre. It failed because of an excess of evangelical zeal, of which Brown was the chief proponent. It should not happen again.\u201dHe added: \u201cEven with the most aggressive strategy on nuclear, wind, hydro and solar, coal will still provide 55% of electricity consumption by 2030, which means coal consumption will be 2.5 or three times higher than at present. Mining and burning coal imposes huge environmental burdens. It\u2019s a double whammy: the more coal we extract, the more forest we lose, and that too will add to global warming.\u201dNevertheless, he concluded, \u201cI don\u2019t see any alternative other than at least to double India\u2019s coal consumption in the next 15 years.\u201dIn Singrauli, the \u201cenvironmental burdens\u201d imposed by mining and burning coal are not difficult to spot.Some of the area\u2019s power stations date back to the 1970s, and their chimneys, which are almost 300m high, belch great plumes of thick, oily smoke. Coal power station chimneys are supposed to be fitted with electrostatic precipitators, devices to stop ash being emitted into the atmosphere. But Singrauli coal\u2019s ash content is high, up to 40%, and the people who live in the shadow of the older plants say houses, vehicles and other exposed surfaces will often be coated in a thick, grey film.\u201cNo one dries their washing outside round here,\u201d said Dr KK Aggarwal, who runs a clinic in the town of Anpara, the site of four big plants, two of them old and two extremely new \u2013 the newest, Anpara D, began to come on stream this month. \u201cMany of my patients suffer from respiratory problems, such as asthma, nasal conditions, bronchitis, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. There are also skin conditions such as eczema and psoriasis.\u201d He is convinced the incidence of such conditions is higher than it should be because of the mines and power plants. \u201cPollution is everywhere.\u201dSome of Singrauli\u2019s mine and power plant operators have already taken elaborate steps to reduce discharges into the air and water. Gigantic water sprayers and closed conveyor belts carrying coal from mine to power station keep dust to a minimum. The chimneys at the newest stations, Anpara C and D, and the nearby \u201csuper critical\u201d plant run by the private firm Reliance, India\u2019s biggest company, emit no visible smoke at all \u2013 and use only three-quarters as much coal as older stations.Elsewhere, however, the noxious odour of coal dust hangs in the air, and after a few minutes outside, one senses gritty particles in the recesses of one\u2019s mouth and throat. Some of the mines still ship their coal in open trucks, coating roadside trees, ground and buildings in layers of black grime. One of the worst places is the huge yard on the outskirts of Singrauli town, where loads are transferred from the trucks to railway wagons. At the yard entrance there\u2019s a mini-roundabout, adorned with a seven-metre sculpture of a clenched fist, a monument to India\u2019s trade unions. The fist, once red, is stained the deepest black.Since 2010, the Indian government has designated Singrauli a \u201ccritically polluted area\u201d. In 2012, Delhi\u2019s prestigious Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) tested Singrauli\u2019s water supplies, along with fish from local reservoirs, human blood and hair samples. In all, the study found high levels of mercury: in one village, water from pumps contained 26 times\u00a0the maximum safe limit laid down by the Bureau of Indian Standards. Some of the hair samples had five times the \u201csafe\u201d concentration, while the fish contained twice the recommended level.The CSE study also found high incidences of vitiligo, shivers, impaired vision, and burning sensation in the limbs, all recognised effects of mercury. Continued exposure, the study reported, might lead to depression, memory loss, and kidney damage. Chandra Bushan, the CSE\u2019s deputy director and one of the study\u2019s authors, told me the source of the mercury was evident: \u201cfly ash\u201d from Singrauli\u2019s power plants.Fly ash has its uses \u2013 for example, in making cement. But for decades, untold thousands of tonnes have been collected from the chimneys, mixed with water and then discharged into the Singrauli environment in the form of grey slurry, left to dry and blow about in vast, open air \u201cash decks\u201d.Filthiest of all is the treatment of ash from Anpara A, commissioned in 1987, and Anpara B, which began to generate power seven years later. From the plants, a row of pipes carries the slurry to a series of huge ponds, where the ash is supposed to settle out. But the system does not work. From the third and final pond, the milky, polluted liquid tumbles over a grey cascade into the Rihand reservoir, the source of drinking water for the entire Singrauli region. Where the slurry meets the blue reservoir waters, there is a clear and visible boundary. Once the ash is in the reservoir, there is no way to get rid of it.In one of the ponds, Ram Pri, a landless Adivasi, was up to his waist in liquid muck, sieving out the ash in order to decant it into 33kg bags, which are used to make cement. He said he gets paid Rs50 \u2013 about 50p \u2013 per bag, and by this perilous, toxic labour, can make Rs200\u2013300 a day. His wife used to help him, \u201cbut she can\u2019t any longer: her feet, her knees and ankles are all swollen. She\u2019s not able to walk. Maybe that\u2019s because of what\u2019s in the water.\u201dHis is not the only local family to have derived little benefit from the Singrauli coal and power boom. For more than 20 years, several thousand mainly Adivasi people have been living in Simplex, a concrete shanty town adjoining the perimeter wall of the 4.7GW Vindhyachal power plant \u2013 one of the biggest in India. The colony was built to house workers who built the plant\u2019s early phases, and its high-voltage output lines run directly overhead.Astonishingly, Simplex is still not connected to the electricity grid. Its first \u201creverse osmosis\u201d water treatment unit opened only eight months ago. Until then, said Anjani Kumar Chaubey, a local activist, \u201cwe used to get severe gastric problems. The water we took from our handpumps made your skin sting, and in the monsoon, it contained worms. The whole of India gets electricity from this plant, but we are like the darkness around a candle. How can our children study? Sometimes, when there is a lot of wind, the whole area gets covered with ash. A lot of our people get sick.\u201dIn Chilkantanbasti, where 7,000 people live close to a 35-year old coal plant at Shaktinagar, run by the state-owned National Thermal Power Corporation, there is electricity. But the air is some of the region\u2019s dirtiest: \u201cA man gets up here in the morning and he eats coal dust,\u201d said Umar Kand, 19. \u201cHe goes to bed at night, and he\u2019s eating coal dust still. If you put anything out anything out round here, it will have a film of ash within an hour.\u201d The streets stink also of sewage: there is no sanitation, and despite a promise by NTPC two years ago, no water treatment unit. There are three public toilets, but none of them work. Kand shrugged: \u201cWe go in the forest.\u201dChilkatanbasti is exposed to another hazard. There are now strict rules governing the landscaping and afforestation of mine overburden piles, which must be split into tiers and divided by broad, flat \u201cbenches\u201d, with no slope steeper than 37 degrees. When a giant pile from the Kharia mine that looms over the village was created, these rules did not exist, and the result is a tottering brown mountain, its slopes strewn with boulders the size of cars, its surface deeply etched by the water channels that form each monsoon.\u201cWhen it rains, material comes down towards us,\u201d said Renu, a local woman who preferred not to give her surname. \u201cThe police have even come to tell us we should evacuate our houses in case it slips. I\u2019ve seen the rocks falling down the slopes. If it ever went altogether, it would be like a tsunami. But how can we leave our homes?\u201d* * *Speaking to Time magazine earlier this month, Prime Minister Modi failed to answer a question as to whether India would agree any binding emissions curb in Paris. Instead, he waxed lyrical about Indians\u2019 love for nature, a theme echoed by environment minister Javadekar, who insisted: \u201cGrowth and environmental protection are not against each other. We want a clean India, a green India. Clean air is our birthright\u201d \u2013 a statement that any visitor to Delhi, which currently endures the world\u2019s worst particulate air pollution, will appreciate.Yet these may not be empty words. For among the BJP government\u2019s most ambitious acts has been to quintuple the 2022 targets set for non-fossil energy by the previous regime, to 175GW \u2013 almost six times its current level. The most ambitious target of all is that for solar energy, which is meant to rise from just 3GW now to 100GW, in only seven years. No country has ever built solar at anything approaching this pace, and it would leave India with three times as much solar capacity as Germany \u2013 which over the course of decades, has deployed 38.5GW, much more than anywhere else in Europe, and more than twice as much as the United States. Many people, Dubash said, regard the target as \u201caspirational\u201d: the sheer manufacturing requirement, likely to come at first mainly from China, is huge.On the other hand, for very obvious reasons, photovoltaic solar energy is a much more viable proposition in India than it is in northern European countries such as Germany, or for that matter, Britain. A well-sited solar panel in India will produce energy up to 22% of the time, as against perhaps 8% in the UK.Ratul Puri, chairman of Hindustan Powerprojects Ltd, a multibillion-pound company that has invested heavily in both coal and solar, pointed out that solar has a further local advantage: \u201cSolar generation perfectly overlays the demand cycle.\u201d In other words, the hot, dry and sunny months will see solar output peak, just as the demand for irrigation pumps, fans and air conditioning is also at its greatest. During the cooling monsoon, solar output plummets, but so does demand: there is no need for irrigation when it\u2019s pouring with rain.\u201cCan we have 100% of energy in India from solar?\u201d Puri asked. \u201cNo, because I still want to be able to turn on my lights at 9pm at night, when solar is generating nothing. But 15, 20% of our energy coming from solar: we can easily do this in the very near future.\u201dEven in fertile, intensely farmed states such as Punjab, 15% of the land is arid, and unsuitable for irrigation \u2013 but ideal for solar panels. Meanwhile, in distinct contrast to Germany or Britain, the levelised cost of solar energy per 1KW/hr unit, averaged out over 25 years, is already close to \u201cgrid parity\u201d, simply because Indian solar panels are so much more productive. Government subsidies have in the past been provided for small-scale users \u2013\u00a0though these were recently cut, from 30% to 15% of installation costs, while only 15% those who deployed solar panels ever claimed them anyway. In India, even without subsidy, solar is becoming competitive with electricity from coal.According to Puri, the price of solar electricity has fallen from Rs13 to Rs6.5 per 1KW/hr unit over the past five years \u2013 very close to the Rs6 cost of thermal power from coal. However, recent reforms to the finance of long-term infrastructure debt are reducing the gap still further. Puri added: \u201cEveryone expects interest rates [currently a ruinous 10- 12%] to come down. If that happens, solar is going to hit grid parity, irrespective of any technical discoveries, within the next two years.\u201dA well-sited solar panel in India will produce energy up to 22% of the time, as against perhaps 8% in the UKIn the past five years, Puri\u2019s balance sheet has been split, two to one, in favour of coal over renewables. He said that over the next five years, he intends to reverse that balance, with \u00a31bn going to coal and close to \u00a33bn to solar \u2013 making Hindustan Powerprojects easily India\u2019s biggest renewables investor.Behind that decision is the fact that during the growth slowdown after 2011, very few new coal power plants were commissioned, while most of the private power firms which have come to dominate the industry are financially \u201cdistressed\u201d.The reasons are complex. They partly stem from the chaotic and indebted state of the \u201cdiscoms\u201d, or distribution companies, the middlemen in India\u2019s electricity industry, which buy power from generators and sell it to consumers. Artificially low tariffs imposed by state governments mean that discoms deliberately restrict supply, preferring to make power cuts than to increase their losses by selling power at prices below its purchase cost. There has also been a widespread failure to take action against rampant electricity theft in informal urban settlements. The upshot is that most coal plants are operating at only 60% capacity \u2013 for the time being, there is a surprising degree of slack in the system.But Puri said that if the economy \u201cdoes start to roar again\u201d in the way that Modi intends, the country will face a serious power shortfall by 2017. Even if new coal plants started to be planned today, they would not avert this problem: it usually takes seven-to-10 years for a freshly conceived coal plant to become operational.On the other hand, solar projects can typically be realised within 12 to 18 months. \u201cThe inactivity in commissioning new thermal plants over the last three years leaves India no choice but to go out and build solar capacity. That means India can overcome the crisis of electricity shortages, have cleaner air, have a more stable grid and go say nice things at the climate change negotiations in Paris.\u201dWithout storage technology far in advance of what exists today, coal will still have to provide India\u2019s \u201cbaseload\u201d: lights and air conditioning at night; power for the factories Modi wants to see built. But beyond 2030, anything is possible. \u201cI think the entire energy landscape is going to change in the next 30 years,\u201d Puri said. \u201cStorage is going to revolutionise it. I also think solar energy will become much cheaper than coal. So why would you build a coal thermal plant?\u201dThere are other solar niches. The unreliability of India\u2019s grid power means the country possesses a staggering 80GW of expensive, off-grid, liquid-fuel generating capacity, most from highly polluting diesel generators. Typically, consumers pay about Rs18 per unit for it when their grid power goes off \u2013 three times the usual price.In Noida, a burgeoning satellite city on the outskirts of the Delhi megalopolis, Kushagara Nandan runs Sunsource Energy, a solar start-up. Educated in the US, he cut his teeth on a similar outfit based in New Jersey. Last year, Sunsource revenues quintupled, to \u00a36m.Part of his business is supplying rooftop units which, when the sun is shining, can fill the gap caused by grid outages far more cheaply than diesel: \u201cWe synchronise grid, diesel and solar together. In Delhi alone, the potential for rooftop solar is at least 1.5GW.\u201d One of his projects, rated at 250KW, adorns the Habitat Centre, a complex that includes conference venues, auditoria, restaurants and art galleries. Another 500KW array has allowed a school to save 20% on its power bills.Cheap, off-grid solar also has great potential in India\u2019s vast rural hinterland. Last year, a solar project to desalinate briny ground water from wells and power irrigation pumps at a village in the southern state of Andhra Pradesh, which Sunsource helped develop with an Indian NGO, was given a Google Global Impact Challenge award. It worked so well that it has now been rolled out in five different villages.Like Ratul Puri, Nandan is a businessman. He is in solar primarily to make money. He urged caution: \u201cUnrealistic expectations must not be raised. It\u2019s crucial to realise that solar must be part of the mix \u2013 it cannot substitute for other sources. For the foreseeable future, India doesn\u2019t have a choice between coal and solar. It needs both.\u201dPragmatism of this kind of now characterises other parts of Indian discourse over energy and the environment. There is, for example, little dispute that the pollution caused in earlier phases of mining and power generation at Singrauli is unacceptable. \u201cThere\u2019s about 80GW \u2013 40% of India\u2019s capacity \u2013 that is either in such disrepair or so dirty that it needs to be replaced,\u201d said Puri. \u201cThe open trucks transporting coal and so on are a short-term phenomenon. No one in their right mind would transport coal by truck.\u201dFor the past two years, Ashwani Dubey, a Delhi lawyer who was brought up in Singrauli, has been fighting a case to force the mine and power plant operators to clean up their act in the National Green Tribunal, a powerful judicial body that rules on environmental matters. In written evidence to the court issued in March, India\u2019s Central Pollution Control Board recommended stringent measures, including the end of ash discharge into the Rihand reservoir by 31 July, and much stricter monitoring of air and water quality. Where necessary, remedial measures should be taken within six months \u2013 to be funded on the \u201cpolluter pays principle\u201d. Within a few months, the open coal trucks are supposed to be gone \u2013 replaced by a closed \u201cmerry-go-round\u201d railway linking mines to power plants.Northern Coalfields now has an environmental team in Singrauli, led by BK Sharma. As parts of the mines are worked out, it \u201cback-fills\u201d the overburden in an effort restore the landscape, and replants native species: \u201cWe are trying to recreate the forest, so that when we leave, it will merge into the ecology of the area,\u201d Sharma said.It sounds utopian. But trees in central India grow fast, and on a visit to what was a part of the Nigahi mine, it was hard to distinguish between remediated pit and original forest. Meanwhile, following a Green Tribunal order, nine village water treatment units have been installed this year. By the end of June, a further 15 are meant to be operational.There are further developments at the national level. Under the new mining law, a third of the money raised by the mining royalty \u2013 a 15% levy on all mine revenue, payable to state governments \u2013 must be given to communities in mine-affected areas, to be spent as they determine. The details have yet to be worked out. But according to Chandra Bushan of the Centre for Science and Environment, \u201cthis is a revolutionary development with huge implications for the entire developing world\u201d.It is to be applied immediately, to old mines and new, and should mean the \u201cdarkness around the candle\u201d seen in places such as Simplex will end. \u201cSingrauli could become one of the richest districts in the country,\u201d said Bushan. \u201cNow we must make sure the money is spent on the right things.\u201dMeanwhile, the government has just introduced new pollution standards for coal plant technology \u2013 as strict as any in the world. \u201cYou will no longer be able to burn coal cheaply and pollute,\u201d said Bushan. Under these rules, old plants such as Shaktinagar and Anpara A will have to be scrapped.Bushan warned that better regulations would not necessarily be enforced. \u201cThe arm of the law is not always long in India. But there are certain trends that are positive. I am impressed quite frankly with the Modi government on these issues. They\u2019ve done more than I expected.\u201dWhere does all this leave India in the run-up to Paris? According to Navroz Dubash, what India and other developing countries need are not rigid emissions targets, but programmes designed to \u201cbend the curve\u201d \u2013 to make emissions lower in the five years after 2020 than they would have been otherwise. The changing format of UN climate negotiations makes this easier to achieve. The diplomatic focus now is not on emissions targets but what are termed INDCs \u2013\u00a0each country\u2019s \u201cintended nationally determined contribution\u201d. These, Dubash said, \u201cprovide an opportunity to dissolve the barrier between development and climate needs\u201d.Measures Dubash would like to see in India\u2019s INDC include its targets for solar energy, better building standards, shifting freight from road to rail, low-energy ceiling fans, and widespread use of LEDs. Most are already in the pipeline: Javadekar said India is about to announce a massive plan to replace city street lights with low-energy LEDs.That approach may allow India to plot the delicate course between environmental and developmental needs. \u201cAs an old UN hand, I must tell you that we only distinguish between success and outstanding success,\u201d Nitin Desai joked. \u201c2015 will be a success. The issue is how great it will be.\u201d\u2022 Follow the Guardian Long Read on Twitter: @gdnlongread", "tags": ["India", "Fossil fuels", "Energy", "Coal", "Solar power", "Renewable energy", "Environment", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Global development", "Natural resources and development"], "title": "Why India is captured by carbon | David Rose"},{"date": "2015-05-25T08:10:38Z", "country": "india", "content": "More than 500 people are believed to have died in a heatwave in India as temperatures approach 50C (122F) in parts of the country.Allahabad, a city in the north, saw the mercury touch 47.7 C (117.8F) on Sunday, according to local media. In Delhi, the capital, a high of 43.5C (110.3F) was recorded.Most of the recorded deaths, primarily from heatstroke and extreme dehydration, have been in rural areas in the south, where roads and markets were deserted in many cities and towns. Local authorities announced a compensation payment of \u00a31,000 to relatives of those killed.The forecast is for a continuing \u201cheatwave to severe heatwave\u201d for the rest of the month. \u201cIt is hot. It will stay hot. People must stay inside and drink lots of water,\u201d Devendra Sharma, an official at the Indian meteorological office said. In the city of Kolkata, in the east, taxi drivers refused to work between 11am and 4pm after a driver died in his cab.Across the country, there were power cuts as India\u2019s inadequate electricity networks sought to fulfil record demand. Shopping malls, which are air-conditioned and often have their own generators to keep customers cool during frequent outages, recorded a surge in visitors.\u201cWe see more and more people walk in, spend some time here and walk out without buying anything. But we understand. It\u2019s terribly hot outside,\u201d Nasir, a security guard at a mall in the city of Patna, told the Times of India newspaper. In Delhi, where temperatures were four degrees higher than the seasonal average, many sought sanctuary in the air-conditioned metro. The highest temperature ever recorded in the capital was 47.2C (116.9F), in May 1944. The record India is thought to be 50.6C (123F), recorded in 1956 in the northern town of Alwar (pdf).The death toll is worse than the severe heatwave in 2010, which started much earlier, registered the highest temperatures for decades and lasted for months. The monsoon, predicted to hit southern India\u2019s coastline on 31 May, will bring relief from the high temperatures, but it will not reach the parched north of the country for several weeks.", "tags": ["India", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Meteorology", "Science"], "title": "India heatwave kills more than 500 people"},{"date": "2015-06-11T15:31:19Z", "country": "india", "content": "iPhones could soon be made in India as well as China, according to Indian government officials.Apple\u2019s manufacturing partner Foxconn, which makes the iPhone, iPad and several other Apple products in factories in China, is in talks to open factories in India to make iPhones.The move would help Foxconn mitigate accelerating labour costs in China, potentially lower prices for iPhones sold in India and move the site of construction closer to buyers in the world\u2019s third-largest smartphone market.\u201cFoxconn is sending a delegation of their officers to scout for locations in a month\u2019s time,\u201d said Subhash Desai, industries minister of India\u2019s western state Maharashtra.Lower production costs could also help Foxconn keep hold of Apple orders amid intensifying competition with nimble manufacturing rivals such as Quanta Computer Inc.Foxconn, the world\u2019s largest contract manufacturer of consumer electronics, has said it is aiming to develop 10-12 facilities in India, including factories and data centres, by 2020, but had given no detail.The Taiwan-based company declined to comment on detailed plans on Thursday, citing commercial sensitivity. Apple did not respond to comment. Desai said Foxconn had yet to make any firm commitment at this stage.India has the second-highest number of mobile phone accounts behind China. According to networking company Cisco Systems, there will be 650m smartphones in the country by 2019. The number of tablets will rise 9% to 18.7m by then.Apple holds 10% of the smartphone market in India, according to data from Counterpoint, and faces tough competition from arch-rival Samsung and local brands such as Micromax, which produce similarly specified smartphones for around half the cost than an iPhone 6, or less.Foxconn is no stranger to India. It ran operations in India until last year producing Nokia devices. Its return to the country would be a boon for India\u2019s manufacturing industry, which prime minister Narendra Modi has made a target for a reboot to rival China.A lack of good infrastructure and suppliers are the biggest hurdles to making technology products in the country, forcing most of India\u2019s more than 100 different phone companies to get their products from the mature markets of China and Taiwan.\u2022 China\u2019s Baidu could beat Google to self-driving car with BMW", "tags": ["Apple", "iPhone", "Technology", "India", "World news", "Foxconn", "Manufacturing sector", "Business", "Smartphones", "South and Central Asia", "Mobile phones"], "title": "Apple iPhones could soon be built in India"},{"date": "2015-06-06T16:45:55Z", "country": "india", "content": "Bangladesh and India have sealed a deal to swap border territories, more than 40 years after it was negotiated.The prime ministers of both countries watched as bureaucrats signed the pact in Dhaka, Bangladesh\u2019s capital. The deal, reached in 1974 but only recently ratified by India\u2019s parliament, will be seen as a major achievement for Narendra Modi, the Indian prime minister, who won a landslide election last year to take power. \u201c[The deal] will make our borders more secure and people\u2019s lives more stable,\u201d the 64-year-old leader said.Modi has had difficulty delivering achievements domestically, but has been active on the international scene and compared the agreement with the dismantling of the Berlin Wall.\u201c[Foreign policy] is one area where there has been unexpected and major progress,\u201d said C Raja Mohan, an Indian foreign affairs analyst. \u201cThis will open the door for significant co-operations and economic engagement.\u201dJust an hour after Modi\u2019s arrival in Dhaka, top Indian conglomerates signed outline agreements with Bangladesh\u2019s state-run electricity agency to invest some $5bn in the country\u2019s rickety power sector.Indian officials said yesterday\u2019s agreement sent an important signal that the border disputes that plague India\u2019s relations with other regional powers could be solved, but added that disagreements with Bangladesh were easier to resolve than those with rival Asian giant China, or with Pakistan, with which India has fought four wars.The agreement was also a boost for Sheikh Hasina, the prime minister of Bangladesh. Hasina won a disputed election last year which was boycotted by the opposition and dismissed as lacking credibility by some western governments. She has been criticised since for cracking down on dissent.Scores of people have been killed in firebomb attacks on vehicles since opposition leaders called a transport blockade at the start of the year in an attempt to oust the current government. Relations between India and its smaller neighbour have significantly improved since Hasina promised her administration would not allow India\u2019s separatist insurgents to use the porous 2,500-mile border to carry out raids. Eighteen soldiers died in an ambush blamed on the separatists last week. The Indian army helped Bangladesh gain independence from Pakistan in a bloody nine-month war in 1971 and relations have usually been warm.There are hopes now that the border agreement will also boost trade. It will allow tens of thousands of people living in 162 enclaves resulting from ownership arrangements made centuries ago by local princes either side of the border enclaves to choose their nationality after decades of stateless limbo. \u201cThis is a way of cleaning up the mess left by partition [of British India in 1947],\u201d said Mohan. India\u2019s parliament only gave its approval last month.People living in the enclaves will be allowed to choose to live in India or Bangladesh, with the option of being granted citizenship in the newly designated territories, and the enclaves would effectively cease to exist.Wary of China\u2019s growing interest in India\u2019s backyard, Modi has been keen to play a greater leadership role in South Asia since coming to power.He is set to meet Khaleda Zia, the main Bangladesh opposition leader. Indian officials have played down the idea of Modi playing a mediation role in the dispute between Hasina and Zia, although he might press on Zia to ensure an end to anti-government attacks.India held off from criticising Hasina\u2019s re-election in January 2014.", "tags": ["India", "Bangladesh", "Narendra Modi", "World news"], "title": "India and Bangladesh seal border deal, four decades later"},{"date": "2015-05-28T12:26:01Z", "country": "india", "content": "The death toll in India\u2019s heatwave has climbed towards 1,500 as the country sweltered in one of the worst bouts of hot weather for several years.Southern India has borne the brunt of the sudden spell of hot, dry weather. So far more than 1,000 people have died in the state of Andhra Pradesh, more than double the total number of heat-related deaths last summer, authorities said.\u201cThis is the highest death toll due to heatwave ever in the state,\u201d said Tulasi Rani, the special commissioner for disaster management in Andhra Pradesh. \u201cLast year around 447 people died due to heat. This year the heatwave is continuing for a longer period than in previous years.\u201d Related: India heatwave kills more than 500 people Rani said temperatures were two to five degrees higher than the seasonal average.The death toll in neighbouring Telangana, where temperatures hit 48C (118F) over the weekend, stood at 340.Dr T Padmaja, the medical and health officer in Andhra Pradesh\u2019s Guntur district, one of the worst affected areas, said leave had been cancelled for doctors.Local authorities across India have launched intensive awareness campaigns, asking people to stay indoors between 1pm and 4pm and advising them to wear broad-brimmed hats and light-coloured cotton clothes, use umbrellas and drink lots of fluid. Among the most vulnerable are older people and poorer people, many of whom live in slums or farm huts with no access to air conditioners or sometimes even trees which could cast shade.Many victims were day labourers, who need to work to eat. \u201cIf I don\u2019t work due to the heat, how will my family survive?\u201d said Mahalakshmi, who earns a 200 rupees (\u00a32) a day as a construction labourer in the southern city of Nizamabad, Telangana state.The homeless were also badly hit. Near one shelter in Delhi, dozens of men tried to keep cool in the shade of nearby trees. Others begged from the drivers of vehicles waiting at nearby traffic lights. \u201cIf they give me anything I spend it on water at the moment not food,\u201d said Deepak Ram Lal, 42.The capital\u2019s air conditioned metro and shopping malls have become much-sought-after havens from the heat, while power cuts in residential areas were frequent as the grid struggled to cope with the demand from millions of air conditioners.Residents of Gurgaon \u2013 a high-rise satellite city, home to many of the Delhi\u2019s workers \u2013 experienced power cuts of up to 10 hours a day. \u201cNothing is working \u2013 even after taking half a dozen baths a day, you can\u2019t beat the heat,\u201d shop owner Manish Singh said. \u201cIt\u2019s worse than previous years; we hardly get any electricity and the air conditioners become useless.\u201dThe heat has melted roads near the capital and caused problems with maintaining animal welfare at farms and the country\u2019s zoos. Brahma Prakash Yadav, director of the Indian meteorological department, said though maximum temperatures would remain high until the weekend, rain would bring some relief early next week (PDF). The highest temperature ever recorded in the capital was 47.2C, in May 1944. The record in India is thought to be 50.6C, recorded in 1956 in the northern town of Alwar.The death toll is worse than the severe heatwave in 2010, which started much earlier, registering the highest temperatures for decades and lasting for months. But experts say compiling casualty statistics for heatwaves is extremely difficult owing to difficulties in attributing cause of death and registering fatalities in remote areas.May and June are India\u2019s hottest months, with temperatures regularly pushing above 40C. But meteorologists say the number of days when temperatures approach 45C has increased in the past 15 years.The monsoon, predicted to hit southern India\u2019s coastline on 31 May, will bring relief from the high temperatures, but it will not reach the parched north of the country for several weeks.", "tags": ["India", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Meteorology"], "title": "India heatwave continues as death toll exceeds 1,000"},{"date": "2015-05-26T14:00:10Z", "country": "india", "content": "We are going to a family wedding in India later in the year and I want to give my children an introduction to some of the stories from India and to some of the things that will be the same and some which will be different.Drawing on its mythology and from its abundant wildlife there are a great many wonderful stories from India which will help readers of any age gain a sense of Indian history and culture. A good place to start is with the stories about the countryside and the animals in it. Many of the Indian myths are about animals and many of those animals still live in India today. Animal characteristics remain constant over the centuries even if there are many fewer of them and their habitat changes. Gita Wolf\u2019s Gobble You Up!, which is beautifully illustrated by Sunita in finger-painted artwork adapted from a traditional Meena art form, is the story of a scheming jackal who is so idle that he gives up hunting and instead uses trickery. The jackal\u2019s best friend is a crane and it is he who the jackal first tricks into providing him with a feast of fish. In this cumulative story in the tradition of There Was an Old Lady who Swallowed a Fly, the animals that the jackal eats can all be seen in his stomach \u2013 much to the delight of all young readers. Joanna Troughton\u2019s The Tiger Child is a version of a folk tale which explains why tigers eat their food uncooked. In this story the reason comes about because when the tiger child is sent to get some fire from the village he gets distracted and starts playing. By the time the game is over he has forgotten what he had been sent for\u2026 No wonder the tigers at home just ate their meat raw! In a quite different idiom, Rudyard Kipling\u2019s classic The Jungle Book, the story of the little boy Mowgli who is fostered by Father and Mother Wolf and grows up with all the animals as his playfellows, was first published over 100 years ago but it remains a vivid, albeit rather moralising picture of life in the forest. Written for his readers at home in England, Kipling memorably introduces animals including Baloo the Bear, Begheera the Black Panther, Shere Khan the Tiger, Riki Tiki Tavi the mongoose and Kai the Python. Through them the \u2018man-cub\u2019 Mowgli learns the law of the jungle. Another way of giving a big-picture view of India through stories would be through Madhur Jaffrey\u2019s Seasons of Splendour, illustrated by Michael Foreman. The collection of short stories, each of which Jaffrey introduces with anecdotes from her own life, provides an excellent introduction to Hindu beliefs and celebrations. To bring this research for a visit up-to-date, Prodeepta Das\u2019s Geeta\u2019s Day: From Dawn to Dusk in an Indian Village takes a detailed look at Geeta\u2019s life in an Indian village. From early morning worship with her grandmother through a school day and games with her friends afterwards to family dinner and bedtime, everything is recorded in Das\u2019s excellent photographs. Much is familiar in terms of family relationships, friendships, school and play, but much is also different. In a related title, Prita Goes to India, Prodeepta Das uses the same technique but covers more ground in the story about a little girl visiting her family in India.Do you have another favourite book about India to share with us? Email childrens.books@theguardian.com or get in touch on Twitter @GdnchildrensBks, where you can also ask The Book Doctor a question using #BookDoctor. Your suggestions:Sayoni, on emailPicture books: Tiger on a Tree by Anushka Ravishankar (Tara), Excuse Me, Is This India? by Anushka Ravishankar (Tara), Elephants Never Forget by Anushka Ravishankar (Tara).Chapter books: Moin and the Monster by Anushka Ravishankar (Duckbill), Timmi in Tangles by Shals Mahajan (Duckbill), Petu Pumpkin Tiffin Thief by Arundhati Venkatesh (Duckbill).Middle-grade books: Vanamala and the Cephalopod by Shalini Srinivasan (Duckbill), Mystery of the Secret Hair Oil Formula by Asha Nehemiah (Puffin), Book Uncle and Me by Uma Krishnamurty (Scholastic).YA novels: Grasshopper\u2019s Run by Siddharth Sharma (Scholastic), Queen of Ice by Devika Rangachari (Duckbill), Jobless Clueless Reckless by Revathi Suresh.QuirkyDragon, on emailJamila Gavin is a great author for books about India. The Surya trilogy is set both in India and England, during the Raj and Partition. In the first book, Jaspal and Marvinder, who are Sikhs, escape the violence and go to England to track down their father, who was studying there. And that\u2019s just the beginning! The Wheel of Surya, The Eye of the Horse, The Track of the Wind. In Tales from India, Jamila Gavin retells some traditional Hindu legends, such as the creation of the world, and how Ganesh got his elephant\u2019s head. This book is beautifully illustrated.Richard, on emailI have always loved Listen and I\u2019ll Tell You by Edward Korel, illustrated by Quentin Blake. It is a collection of Indian tales linked by a central tale: \u201ctales within tales\u201d.", "tags": ["Children and teenagers", "Children's books: 7 and under", "Children's books: 8-12 years", "Animals", "Picture books", "Rudyard Kipling", "Madhur Jaffrey", "Michael Foreman"], "title": "What are the best children's books about India?"},{"date": "2015-05-27T05:00:29Z", "country": "india", "content": "Beneath a sky made opaque by billowing dust, a mechanised shovel driver steered his vehicle toward the vast wall of an open coal mine. It was the middle of a central Indian summer afternoon, and outside, the temperature had hit 45C. Up in the cab, 15 metres above the black, shiny ground, it was comfortable, air-conditioned.The driver tipped the steel-toothed rim of the shovel\u2019s bucket downwards, then slammed it into the coal seam wall in front of him. A few hours earlier, a drilling rig mounted on caterpillar tracks had drilled deep holes into the coal from the flat ground above, and filled them with explosives. Their detonation broke the coal into diggable chunks, some of them pebbles, others a metre across.The seam being worked was 20 metres thick, and lay some 300 metres beneath what was once the ground\u2019s surface \u2013 the deeper of two black stripes of coal. Overlying the seams, until it was blasted and dug away, were much larger quantities of grey-brown shale, what miners call \u201coverburden\u201d. Having been stripped from the coal, it lay stacked up in mountainous piles on either side of the mine, the walls of an artificial Grand Canyon. The surface area of this mine, Dudhichua, is 16 square\u00a0kilometres.In the year ending March 2015, Dudhichua produced 15m tonnes of coal \u2013 more than the UK\u2019s entire remaining production. But it is only one of 16 mines in the Singrauli coalfield, which spans parts of two districts in Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. All but one are owned by the state-run Northern Coalfields Ltd, a subsidiary of Coal India, one of the country\u2019s biggest firms. As is the case with other Indian coalfields, Singrauli is home to numerous coal-fired thermal electricity plants, some almost on the doorstep of the mines. Their current aggregate capacity is about 20 gigawatts, nearly 10% of India\u2019s total national generating capacity. (By comparison, peak electricity demand for the entire UK is only 57GW.)Singrauli may be one of India\u2019s biggest energy hubs, but it is also isolated. Apart from the mines and power stations, the coalfield is home to a handful of towns, poverty-stricken villages and some prosperous corporate \u201ccolonies\u201d, with their own schools, sports fields and clinics. To visit the area involves a 220km drive from the nearest airport at Varanasi, on a chaotic road that often lacks a proper surface: the journey\u00a0can easily take eight hours. Phone signals and internet\u00a0are intermittent. The only communications that really work are the high-voltage power lines that carry Singrauli\u2019s output to the teeming cities of northern India\u2019s plains. Last year, the coalfield\u2019s total production was about 87m tonnes. (When the British coal industry began to decline with the outbreak of the 1984 miners\u2019 strike, it was producing about 130m tonnes annually.)Singrauli\u2019s significance \u2013 and that of the subcontinent\u2019s many other coalfields, which span the length and breadth of\u00a0India, with further large reserves in Pakistan \u2013 extends globally. In 2013, the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) reported that in order to restrict the increase of world average temperatures to 2C above pre-industrial times, the world must adopt a strict \u201ccarbon budget\u201d for emissions. According to the IPCC, the current rate of fossil fuel burning will exhaust this within 25 years, after which fuels must either be left unexploited, or have their emissions kept from the atmosphere by carbon capture and storage.India has the world\u2019s fifth-largest coal reserves \u2013\u00a0and very few cleaner fossil fuels, such as natural gas. Its leaders are also determined to spread the benefits of economic\u00a0development more widely among its population of almost 1.3bn people \u2013\u00a0one third of whom still have no access to\u00a0electricity.Anil Swarup, the permanent secretary at the coal ministry in Delhi, said in an interview that last year Indian production from both private and state-owned mines was 620m tonnes, more than 85% of it from open-cast workings. A further 400m tonnes were imported. At Singrauli and elsewhere, he added, production is set to increase rapidly, with strong encouragement from the rightwing Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, which swept to power last year. Modi is determined to restore the sustained GDP growth rate of 8-10% that India enjoyed for a decade until 2011.\u201cWe are looking to double Indian coal production by 2020,\u201d Swarup said, \u201cand to reduce reliance on imports.\u201d Beyond that date, he said production would continue to rise to 1.5bn tonnes a year, with most of this being burnt in coal-fired power plants. In the past six months, the government has given environmental clearance to 41 new mining projects. The consequence, Swarup said, is that from now until 2020, \u201ca new mine will be opened every month. You have to work on the assumption of requirement, and in India, there is a need for power.\u201dLast August, the Indian supreme court ruled that more than 200 mining licences awarded by governments before 2010 were illegal, forcing the cancellation of numerous planned projects. The system that its judgment set aside had already been shown to be rife with corruption. The most prominent casualty of India\u2019s \u201cCoalgate\u201d scandal was the former Congress prime minister Manmohan Singh, who last month came close to criminal indictment.Enshrined in a law enacted by Modi\u2019s government is a new scheme under which coal blocks are auctioned to the highest bidder. It hugely incentivises state governments to foster new mines. According to Swarup, the auctions of the 209 blocks that have been sold off to date have raised about \u00a317bn \u2013 money that will swell state coffers for the next 30 years: \u201cThis will change the states\u2019 economies. They were really strapped for money. Now they will get it.\u201dMany of the richest untapped reserves lie in heavily forested areas, some near Singrauli in Madhya Pradesh, but mainly in Chattisgarh and Jharkand in central India. There, those whose land will be subject to \u201cacquisition\u201d are some of India\u2019s poorest inhabitants, many of them Adivasis \u2013\u00a0members of indigenous tribes.Swarup insisted that preserving the environment was a high priority for those overseeing India\u2019s new coal boom. \u201cSeeing how the environment can be maintained is a crucial part of this. Whenever I talk to my officers, I say the environment is non-negotiable. But there is no viable alternative to developing more coal. Energy requirements have to be met.\u201dTo many western environmentalists, who are determined to see a binding global deal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions at the UN climate change conference in Paris later this year, India\u2019s rising coal use is anathema. However, across a broad range of Delhi politicians and policymakers there is near unanimity. There is, they say, simply no possibility that at this stage in its development India will agree to any form of emissions cap, let alone a cut. Even a pledge of the kind made by China\u2019s leader Xi Jinping after talks with US president\u00a0Barack Obama last year, that Chinese emissions would rise to a peak in 2030 and thereafter decline, would be out of the question.This issue \u2013 the balance between the environment and growth \u2013 arises in every developing country. But India\u2019s sheer size means that its resolution is of exceptional significance.Modi has spoken repeatedly of India\u2019s \u201cright to growth\u201d. Prakash Javadekar, the cabinet minister responsible for the environment, forests and climate change, enlarged on this in blunt terms, speaking in his office at the Rajya Sabha, the upper house of India\u2019s parliament: \u201cOur emissions will grow because we are not developed and we have a right, every person on this Earth has a right, to develop. If today the world is 0.8C warmer [than it was in pre-industrial times], it is not my fault. It is the historical responsibility of those who started emitting with the industrial revolution.\u201d (However, largely because of its sheer size and population, India is one of the ten biggest historical emitters, having contributed around 7% to the warming the world has seen so far, compared to 20% for the US and 5% for the UK.)He cited a Hindi political slogan, taken up by the BJP in its struggle to eclipse the once-impregnable Congress Party: \u201cSinghasan khali karo ki janata aati hai,\u201d which roughly means \u201cVacate the throne, the people are coming.\u201d In Javadekar\u2019s view, for now and for years to come, responsibility for reducing global emissions must be borne by the west: \u201cThey must vacate the carbon space because we are coming. We are developing.\u201dUnderlying that insistence are some brutal facts. India is famously the world\u2019s largest democracy, and is often said to possess the world\u2019s biggest \u201cmiddle class\u201d. But in India this term has a meaning very different to its usage in the west. Navroz Dubash, the head of the climate initiative at Delhi\u2019s Centre for Policy Research, pointed out that among the richest 10% of Indians, a third live in households which have no refrigerators. In the next richest 10%, only 45% have refrigerators, and in the 10% after that, only 28%. At the mid-point of India\u2019s income distribution, the proportion of fridge owners is just 10%.Among the richest 10% of Indians, a third live in households which have no refrigeratorsDubash, a lead author of the IPCC\u2019s reports, is personally in no doubt as to the need to reduce global emissions. But he said that the limited reach of refrigerators \u2013 which India\u2019s climate would seem to make indispensable \u2013 \u201ctells you scary things. If you ask people with that level of access to energy to tighten their belts, that\u2019s a very big ask. It means that emissions inevitably have to grow.\u201d In India, he added, the number of people who consume as much energy as anyone deemed to be above the official poverty line in the developed world is, at most, a few tens of millions. Everyone else consumes less. \u201cFrom a global perspective, you have to give India carbon headroom.\u201dDubash is the principal author of a recent report that examines seven separate projections of India\u2019s future energy needs and likely emissions. All of them \u2013 from institutions including government departments, the World Bank and TERI, the Energy and Resources Institute headed until recently by Raj Pachauri, the former IPCC chairman \u2013 state that both coal-fired power and Indian greenhouse gas emissions are set to increase substantially.\u201cBy 2030, coal use is projected \u2026 to be 2.5-three times current levels,\u201d the report says. Even with stringent policy action to increase the deployment of renewables and increase energy efficiency, \u201ccoal use is projected by all but one study to be more than two times current levels\u201d. (Although India has a small nuclear industry \u2013 which provides less than 5% of its electricity \u2013 attempts to expand it have met strong political resistance. Any new nuclear capacity would take years to build and bring online, so it cannot be expected to fill the country\u2019s energy needs any time soon.)The consequence is that if, as the projections suggest, India\u2019s emissions grow between two and three times by 2030, \u201cIndia could be the second largest global emitter within the next decade.\u201d Its projected output\u00a0\u2013 between 4bn and 5.7bn tonnes of carbon dioxide each year \u2013\u00a0will surpass that of the US, which in 2011 was 5.3bn tonnes and falling, and be smaller only than China\u2019s.India\u2019s population is set to outstrip China\u2019s by 2028. But while its total emissions will be high, they will be nowhere near as great, on a per capita basis, as those of more developed countries. The Xi\u2013Obama deal was based on the notion that by 2030, the two nations will reach per capita emissions \u201cconvergence\u201d, with each person responsible for producing 14 tonnes of carbon each year. By that date, Prakash Javadekar said, the figure for the average Indian will be just 4 tonnes, a little over twice as much as today: \u201cIndia will never reach the Chinese-American convergence point. Every climate action has a cost, but I can\u2019t tax my poor.\u201d Even in 2030, Indian per capita emissions are expected to remain below the current world average.Dubash\u2019s report regards all the projections as flawed: they tend to assume sustained high GDP growth, which may not be achievable, and there is a wide divergence between them. \u201cWe don\u2019t have a very solid set of analytical inputs, and the projections are not robust,\u201d Dubash said. For that reason alone, \u201cstringent pledges would be unwise, because there is too much uncertainty\u201d.Similar opinions can be found in Delhi among people of very different political stripes. There are a few dissenters, such as Greenpeace India \u2013\u00a0which led a campaign by local people to resist the development of a new mine in Singrauli that was finally cancelled last year. Since then, the government has taken steps to curb its activities, freezing all its bank accounts on the grounds that it received donations from abroad. But Greenpeace remains on the margins of India\u2019s debate.According to Barun Mitra, the director of the Liberty Institute, a free-market think tank, \u201cin a country where a third of the population doesn\u2019t have electricity, binding emissions limits are a fairy tale\u201d.Nitin Desai is a retired UN diplomat, who organised the 1992 Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro and later represented the UN secretary-general at international climate conferences. He is now a member of a small expert panel advising Modi in the lead-up to Paris. \u201cIn a country with blackouts and so many people without access to electricity, can I really manage without developing more coal?\u201d he asked. \u201cWhy should we be accountable? The pressure should be on the countries whose per capita emissions are much higher. If you try to force India to adopt emissions targets, you will fail.\u201dThe last time US and European leaders made a serious push for a binding global deal, at the 2009 climate conference in Copenhagen, India\u2019s delegation was led by Jairam Ramesh, who did Javedekar\u2019s job in the then-Congress-led government. As a minister, he was mercilessly attacked for holding up development on environmental grounds. He said: \u201cThe idea that India can set targets in Paris is completely ridiculous and unrealistic. It will not happen. This is a difficult concept for eco-fundamentalists, and I say this as a guy who is considered in India to be very green.\u201dCopenhagen, he said, failed because of what he termed \u201cclimate evangelism. I was sitting for days with Gordon Brown, Ed Miliband, Angela Merkel, Barack Obama and Sarkozy. It was absolutely bizarre. It failed because of an excess of evangelical zeal, of which Brown was the chief proponent. It should not happen again.\u201dHe added: \u201cEven with the most aggressive strategy on nuclear, wind, hydro and solar, coal will still provide 55% of electricity consumption by 2030, which means coal consumption will be 2.5 or three times higher than at present. Mining and burning coal imposes huge environmental burdens. It\u2019s a double whammy: the more coal we extract, the more forest we lose, and that too will add to global warming.\u201dNevertheless, he concluded, \u201cI don\u2019t see any alternative other than at least to double India\u2019s coal consumption in the next 15 years.\u201dIn Singrauli, the \u201cenvironmental burdens\u201d imposed by mining and burning coal are not difficult to spot.Some of the area\u2019s power stations date back to the 1970s, and their chimneys, which are almost 300m high, belch great plumes of thick, oily smoke. Coal power station chimneys are supposed to be fitted with electrostatic precipitators, devices to stop ash being emitted into the atmosphere. But Singrauli coal\u2019s ash content is high, up to 40%, and the people who live in the shadow of the older plants say houses, vehicles and other exposed surfaces will often be coated in a thick, grey film.\u201cNo one dries their washing outside round here,\u201d said Dr KK Aggarwal, who runs a clinic in the town of Anpara, the site of four big plants, two of them old and two extremely new \u2013 the newest, Anpara D, began to come on stream this month. \u201cMany of my patients suffer from respiratory problems, such as asthma, nasal conditions, bronchitis, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. There are also skin conditions such as eczema and psoriasis.\u201d He is convinced the incidence of such conditions is higher than it should be because of the mines and power plants. \u201cPollution is everywhere.\u201dSome of Singrauli\u2019s mine and power plant operators have already taken elaborate steps to reduce discharges into the air and water. Gigantic water sprayers and closed conveyor belts carrying coal from mine to power station keep dust to a minimum. The chimneys at the newest stations, Anpara C and D, and the nearby \u201csuper critical\u201d plant run by the private firm Reliance, India\u2019s biggest company, emit no visible smoke at all \u2013 and use only three-quarters as much coal as older stations.Elsewhere, however, the noxious odour of coal dust hangs in the air, and after a few minutes outside, one senses gritty particles in the recesses of one\u2019s mouth and throat. Some of the mines still ship their coal in open trucks, coating roadside trees, ground and buildings in layers of black grime. One of the worst places is the huge yard on the outskirts of Singrauli town, where loads are transferred from the trucks to railway wagons. At the yard entrance there\u2019s a mini-roundabout, adorned with a seven-metre sculpture of a clenched fist, a monument to India\u2019s trade unions. The fist, once red, is stained the deepest black.Since 2010, the Indian government has designated Singrauli a \u201ccritically polluted area\u201d. In 2012, Delhi\u2019s prestigious Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) tested Singrauli\u2019s water supplies, along with fish from local reservoirs, human blood and hair samples. In all, the study found high levels of mercury: in one village, water from pumps contained 26 times\u00a0the maximum safe limit laid down by the Bureau of Indian Standards. Some of the hair samples had five times the \u201csafe\u201d concentration, while the fish contained twice the recommended level.The CSE study also found high incidences of vitiligo, shivers, impaired vision, and burning sensation in the limbs, all recognised effects of mercury. Continued exposure, the study reported, might lead to depression, memory loss, and kidney damage. Chandra Bushan, the CSE\u2019s deputy director and one of the study\u2019s authors, told me the source of the mercury was evident: \u201cfly ash\u201d from Singrauli\u2019s power plants.Fly ash has its uses \u2013 for example, in making cement. But for decades, untold thousands of tonnes have been collected from the chimneys, mixed with water and then discharged into the Singrauli environment in the form of grey slurry, left to dry and blow about in vast, open air \u201cash decks\u201d.Filthiest of all is the treatment of ash from Anpara A, commissioned in 1987, and Anpara B, which began to generate power seven years later. From the plants, a row of pipes carries the slurry to a series of huge ponds, where the ash is supposed to settle out. But the system does not work. From the third and final pond, the milky, polluted liquid tumbles over a grey cascade into the Rihand reservoir, the source of drinking water for the entire Singrauli region. Where the slurry meets the blue reservoir waters, there is a clear and visible boundary. Once the ash is in the reservoir, there is no way to get rid of it.In one of the ponds, Ram Pri, a landless Adivasi, was up to his waist in liquid muck, sieving out the ash in order to decant it into 33kg bags, which are used to make cement. He said he gets paid Rs50 \u2013 about 50p \u2013 per bag, and by this perilous, toxic labour, can make Rs200\u2013300 a day. His wife used to help him, \u201cbut she can\u2019t any longer: her feet, her knees and ankles are all swollen. She\u2019s not able to walk. Maybe that\u2019s because of what\u2019s in the water.\u201dHis is not the only local family to have derived little benefit from the Singrauli coal and power boom. For more than 20 years, several thousand mainly Adivasi people have been living in Simplex, a concrete shanty town adjoining the perimeter wall of the 4.7GW Vindhyachal power plant \u2013 one of the biggest in India. The colony was built to house workers who built the plant\u2019s early phases, and its high-voltage output lines run directly overhead.Astonishingly, Simplex is still not connected to the electricity grid. Its first \u201creverse osmosis\u201d water treatment unit opened only eight months ago. Until then, said Anjani Kumar Chaubey, a local activist, \u201cwe used to get severe gastric problems. The water we took from our handpumps made your skin sting, and in the monsoon, it contained worms. The whole of India gets electricity from this plant, but we are like the darkness around a candle. How can our children study? Sometimes, when there is a lot of wind, the whole area gets covered with ash. A lot of our people get sick.\u201dIn Chilkantanbasti, where 7,000 people live close to a 35-year old coal plant at Shaktinagar, run by the state-owned National Thermal Power Corporation, there is electricity. But the air is some of the region\u2019s dirtiest: \u201cA man gets up here in the morning and he eats coal dust,\u201d said Umar Kand, 19. \u201cHe goes to bed at night, and he\u2019s eating coal dust still. If you put anything out anything out round here, it will have a film of ash within an hour.\u201d The streets stink also of sewage: there is no sanitation, and despite a promise by NTPC two years ago, no water treatment unit. There are three public toilets, but none of them work. Kand shrugged: \u201cWe go in the forest.\u201dChilkatanbasti is exposed to another hazard. There are now strict rules governing the landscaping and afforestation of mine overburden piles, which must be split into tiers and divided by broad, flat \u201cbenches\u201d, with no slope steeper than 37 degrees. When a giant pile from the Kharia mine that looms over the village was created, these rules did not exist, and the result is a tottering brown mountain, its slopes strewn with boulders the size of cars, its surface deeply etched by the water channels that form each monsoon.\u201cWhen it rains, material comes down towards us,\u201d said Renu, a local woman who preferred not to give her surname. \u201cThe police have even come to tell us we should evacuate our houses in case it slips. I\u2019ve seen the rocks falling down the slopes. If it ever went altogether, it would be like a tsunami. But how can we leave our homes?\u201d* * *Speaking to Time magazine earlier this month, Prime Minister Modi failed to answer a question as to whether India would agree any binding emissions curb in Paris. Instead, he waxed lyrical about Indians\u2019 love for nature, a theme echoed by environment minister Javadekar, who insisted: \u201cGrowth and environmental protection are not against each other. We want a clean India, a green India. Clean air is our birthright\u201d \u2013 a statement that any visitor to Delhi, which currently endures the world\u2019s worst particulate air pollution, will appreciate.Yet these may not be empty words. For among the BJP government\u2019s most ambitious acts has been to quintuple the 2022 targets set for non-fossil energy by the previous regime, to 175GW \u2013 almost six times its current level. The most ambitious target of all is that for solar energy, which is meant to rise from just 3GW now to 100GW, in only seven years. No country has ever built solar at anything approaching this pace, and it would leave India with three times as much solar capacity as Germany \u2013 which over the course of decades, has deployed 38.5GW, much more than anywhere else in Europe, and more than twice as much as the United States. Many people, Dubash said, regard the target as \u201caspirational\u201d: the sheer manufacturing requirement, likely to come at first mainly from China, is huge.On the other hand, for very obvious reasons, photovoltaic solar energy is a much more viable proposition in India than it is in northern European countries such as Germany, or for that matter, Britain. A well-sited solar panel in India will produce energy up to 22% of the time, as against perhaps 8% in the UK.Ratul Puri, chairman of Hindustan Powerprojects Ltd, a multibillion-pound company that has invested heavily in both coal and solar, pointed out that solar has a further local advantage: \u201cSolar generation perfectly overlays the demand cycle.\u201d In other words, the hot, dry and sunny months will see solar output peak, just as the demand for irrigation pumps, fans and air conditioning is also at its greatest. During the cooling monsoon, solar output plummets, but so does demand: there is no need for irrigation when it\u2019s pouring with rain.\u201cCan we have 100% of energy in India from solar?\u201d Puri asked. \u201cNo, because I still want to be able to turn on my lights at 9pm at night, when solar is generating nothing. But 15, 20% of our energy coming from solar: we can easily do this in the very near future.\u201dEven in fertile, intensely farmed states such as Punjab, 15% of the land is arid, and unsuitable for irrigation \u2013 but ideal for solar panels. Meanwhile, in distinct contrast to Germany or Britain, the levelised cost of solar energy per 1KW/hr unit, averaged out over 25 years, is already close to \u201cgrid parity\u201d, simply because Indian solar panels are so much more productive. Government subsidies have in the past been provided for small-scale users \u2013\u00a0though these were recently cut, from 30% to 15% of installation costs, while only 15% those who deployed solar panels ever claimed them anyway. In India, even without subsidy, solar is becoming competitive with electricity from coal.According to Puri, the price of solar electricity has fallen from Rs13 to Rs6.5 per 1KW/hr unit over the past five years \u2013 very close to the Rs6 cost of thermal power from coal. However, recent reforms to the finance of long-term infrastructure debt are reducing the gap still further. Puri added: \u201cEveryone expects interest rates [currently a ruinous 10- 12%] to come down. If that happens, solar is going to hit grid parity, irrespective of any technical discoveries, within the next two years.\u201dA well-sited solar panel in India will produce energy up to 22% of the time, as against perhaps 8% in the UKIn the past five years, Puri\u2019s balance sheet has been split, two to one, in favour of coal over renewables. He said that over the next five years, he intends to reverse that balance, with \u00a31bn going to coal and close to \u00a33bn to solar \u2013 making Hindustan Powerprojects easily India\u2019s biggest renewables investor.Behind that decision is the fact that during the growth slowdown after 2011, very few new coal power plants were commissioned, while most of the private power firms which have come to dominate the industry are financially \u201cdistressed\u201d.The reasons are complex. They partly stem from the chaotic and indebted state of the \u201cdiscoms\u201d, or distribution companies, the middlemen in India\u2019s electricity industry, which buy power from generators and sell it to consumers. Artificially low tariffs imposed by state governments mean that discoms deliberately restrict supply, preferring to make power cuts than to increase their losses by selling power at prices below its purchase cost. There has also been a widespread failure to take action against rampant electricity theft in informal urban settlements. The upshot is that most coal plants are operating at only 60% capacity \u2013 for the time being, there is a surprising degree of slack in the system.But Puri said that if the economy \u201cdoes start to roar again\u201d in the way that Modi intends, the country will face a serious power shortfall by 2017. Even if new coal plants started to be planned today, they would not avert this problem: it usually takes seven-to-10 years for a freshly conceived coal plant to become operational.On the other hand, solar projects can typically be realised within 12 to 18 months. \u201cThe inactivity in commissioning new thermal plants over the last three years leaves India no choice but to go out and build solar capacity. That means India can overcome the crisis of electricity shortages, have cleaner air, have a more stable grid and go say nice things at the climate change negotiations in Paris.\u201dWithout storage technology far in advance of what exists today, coal will still have to provide India\u2019s \u201cbaseload\u201d: lights and air conditioning at night; power for the factories Modi wants to see built. But beyond 2030, anything is possible. \u201cI think the entire energy landscape is going to change in the next 30 years,\u201d Puri said. \u201cStorage is going to revolutionise it. I also think solar energy will become much cheaper than coal. So why would you build a coal thermal plant?\u201dThere are other solar niches. The unreliability of India\u2019s grid power means the country possesses a staggering 80GW of expensive, off-grid, liquid-fuel generating capacity, most from highly polluting diesel generators. Typically, consumers pay about Rs18 per unit for it when their grid power goes off \u2013 three times the usual price.In Noida, a burgeoning satellite city on the outskirts of the Delhi megalopolis, Kushagara Nandan runs Sunsource Energy, a solar start-up. Educated in the US, he cut his teeth on a similar outfit based in New Jersey. Last year, Sunsource revenues quintupled, to \u00a36m.Part of his business is supplying rooftop units which, when the sun is shining, can fill the gap caused by grid outages far more cheaply than diesel: \u201cWe synchronise grid, diesel and solar together. In Delhi alone, the potential for rooftop solar is at least 1.5GW.\u201d One of his projects, rated at 250KW, adorns the Habitat Centre, a complex that includes conference venues, auditoria, restaurants and art galleries. Another 500KW array has allowed a school to save 20% on its power bills.Cheap, off-grid solar also has great potential in India\u2019s vast rural hinterland. Last year, a solar project to desalinate briny ground water from wells and power irrigation pumps at a village in the southern state of Andhra Pradesh, which Sunsource helped develop with an Indian NGO, was given a Google Global Impact Challenge award. It worked so well that it has now been rolled out in five different villages.Like Ratul Puri, Nandan is a businessman. He is in solar primarily to make money. He urged caution: \u201cUnrealistic expectations must not be raised. It\u2019s crucial to realise that solar must be part of the mix \u2013 it cannot substitute for other sources. For the foreseeable future, India doesn\u2019t have a choice between coal and solar. It needs both.\u201dPragmatism of this kind of now characterises other parts of Indian discourse over energy and the environment. There is, for example, little dispute that the pollution caused in earlier phases of mining and power generation at Singrauli is unacceptable. \u201cThere\u2019s about 80GW \u2013 40% of India\u2019s capacity \u2013 that is either in such disrepair or so dirty that it needs to be replaced,\u201d said Puri. \u201cThe open trucks transporting coal and so on are a short-term phenomenon. No one in their right mind would transport coal by truck.\u201dFor the past two years, Ashwani Dubey, a Delhi lawyer who was brought up in Singrauli, has been fighting a case to force the mine and power plant operators to clean up their act in the National Green Tribunal, a powerful judicial body that rules on environmental matters. In written evidence to the court issued in March, India\u2019s Central Pollution Control Board recommended stringent measures, including the end of ash discharge into the Rihand reservoir by 31 July, and much stricter monitoring of air and water quality. Where necessary, remedial measures should be taken within six months \u2013 to be funded on the \u201cpolluter pays principle\u201d. Within a few months, the open coal trucks are supposed to be gone \u2013 replaced by a closed \u201cmerry-go-round\u201d railway linking mines to power plants.Northern Coalfields now has an environmental team in Singrauli, led by BK Sharma. As parts of the mines are worked out, it \u201cback-fills\u201d the overburden in an effort restore the landscape, and replants native species: \u201cWe are trying to recreate the forest, so that when we leave, it will merge into the ecology of the area,\u201d Sharma said.It sounds utopian. But trees in central India grow fast, and on a visit to what was a part of the Nigahi mine, it was hard to distinguish between remediated pit and original forest. Meanwhile, following a Green Tribunal order, nine village water treatment units have been installed this year. By the end of June, a further 15 are meant to be operational.There are further developments at the national level. Under the new mining law, a third of the money raised by the mining royalty \u2013 a 15% levy on all mine revenue, payable to state governments \u2013 must be given to communities in mine-affected areas, to be spent as they determine. The details have yet to be worked out. But according to Chandra Bushan of the Centre for Science and Environment, \u201cthis is a revolutionary development with huge implications for the entire developing world\u201d.It is to be applied immediately, to old mines and new, and should mean the \u201cdarkness around the candle\u201d seen in places such as Simplex will end. \u201cSingrauli could become one of the richest districts in the country,\u201d said Bushan. \u201cNow we must make sure the money is spent on the right things.\u201dMeanwhile, the government has just introduced new pollution standards for coal plant technology \u2013 as strict as any in the world. \u201cYou will no longer be able to burn coal cheaply and pollute,\u201d said Bushan. Under these rules, old plants such as Shaktinagar and Anpara A will have to be scrapped.Bushan warned that better regulations would not necessarily be enforced. \u201cThe arm of the law is not always long in India. But there are certain trends that are positive. I am impressed quite frankly with the Modi government on these issues. They\u2019ve done more than I expected.\u201dWhere does all this leave India in the run-up to Paris? According to Navroz Dubash, what India and other developing countries need are not rigid emissions targets, but programmes designed to \u201cbend the curve\u201d \u2013 to make emissions lower in the five years after 2020 than they would have been otherwise. The changing format of UN climate negotiations makes this easier to achieve. The diplomatic focus now is not on emissions targets but what are termed INDCs \u2013\u00a0each country\u2019s \u201cintended nationally determined contribution\u201d. These, Dubash said, \u201cprovide an opportunity to dissolve the barrier between development and climate needs\u201d.Measures Dubash would like to see in India\u2019s INDC include its targets for solar energy, better building standards, shifting freight from road to rail, low-energy ceiling fans, and widespread use of LEDs. Most are already in the pipeline: Javadekar said India is about to announce a massive plan to replace city street lights with low-energy LEDs.That approach may allow India to plot the delicate course between environmental and developmental needs. \u201cAs an old UN hand, I must tell you that we only distinguish between success and outstanding success,\u201d Nitin Desai joked. \u201c2015 will be a success. The issue is how great it will be.\u201d\u2022 Follow the Guardian Long Read on Twitter: @gdnlongread", "tags": ["India", "Fossil fuels", "Energy", "Coal", "Solar power", "Renewable energy", "Environment", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Global development", "Natural resources and development"], "title": "Why India is captured by carbon | David Rose"},{"date": "2015-05-25T08:10:38Z", "country": "india", "content": "More than 500 people are believed to have died in a heatwave in India as temperatures approach 50C (122F) in parts of the country.Allahabad, a city in the north, saw the mercury touch 47.7 C (117.8F) on Sunday, according to local media. In Delhi, the capital, a high of 43.5C (110.3F) was recorded.Most of the recorded deaths, primarily from heatstroke and extreme dehydration, have been in rural areas in the south, where roads and markets were deserted in many cities and towns. Local authorities announced a compensation payment of \u00a31,000 to relatives of those killed.The forecast is for a continuing \u201cheatwave to severe heatwave\u201d for the rest of the month. \u201cIt is hot. It will stay hot. People must stay inside and drink lots of water,\u201d Devendra Sharma, an official at the Indian meteorological office said. In the city of Kolkata, in the east, taxi drivers refused to work between 11am and 4pm after a driver died in his cab.Across the country, there were power cuts as India\u2019s inadequate electricity networks sought to fulfil record demand. Shopping malls, which are air-conditioned and often have their own generators to keep customers cool during frequent outages, recorded a surge in visitors.\u201cWe see more and more people walk in, spend some time here and walk out without buying anything. But we understand. It\u2019s terribly hot outside,\u201d Nasir, a security guard at a mall in the city of Patna, told the Times of India newspaper. In Delhi, where temperatures were four degrees higher than the seasonal average, many sought sanctuary in the air-conditioned metro. The highest temperature ever recorded in the capital was 47.2C (116.9F), in May 1944. The record India is thought to be 50.6C (123F), recorded in 1956 in the northern town of Alwar (pdf).The death toll is worse than the severe heatwave in 2010, which started much earlier, registered the highest temperatures for decades and lasted for months. The monsoon, predicted to hit southern India\u2019s coastline on 31 May, will bring relief from the high temperatures, but it will not reach the parched north of the country for several weeks.", "tags": ["India", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Meteorology", "Science"], "title": "India heatwave kills more than 500 people"},{"date": "2015-06-11T15:31:19Z", "country": "india", "content": "iPhones could soon be made in India as well as China, according to Indian government officials.Apple\u2019s manufacturing partner Foxconn, which makes the iPhone, iPad and several other Apple products in factories in China, is in talks to open factories in India to make iPhones.The move would help Foxconn mitigate accelerating labour costs in China, potentially lower prices for iPhones sold in India and move the site of construction closer to buyers in the world\u2019s third-largest smartphone market.\u201cFoxconn is sending a delegation of their officers to scout for locations in a month\u2019s time,\u201d said Subhash Desai, industries minister of India\u2019s western state Maharashtra.Lower production costs could also help Foxconn keep hold of Apple orders amid intensifying competition with nimble manufacturing rivals such as Quanta Computer Inc.Foxconn, the world\u2019s largest contract manufacturer of consumer electronics, has said it is aiming to develop 10-12 facilities in India, including factories and data centres, by 2020, but had given no detail.The Taiwan-based company declined to comment on detailed plans on Thursday, citing commercial sensitivity. Apple did not respond to comment. Desai said Foxconn had yet to make any firm commitment at this stage.India has the second-highest number of mobile phone accounts behind China. According to networking company Cisco Systems, there will be 650m smartphones in the country by 2019. The number of tablets will rise 9% to 18.7m by then.Apple holds 10% of the smartphone market in India, according to data from Counterpoint, and faces tough competition from arch-rival Samsung and local brands such as Micromax, which produce similarly specified smartphones for around half the cost than an iPhone 6, or less.Foxconn is no stranger to India. It ran operations in India until last year producing Nokia devices. Its return to the country would be a boon for India\u2019s manufacturing industry, which prime minister Narendra Modi has made a target for a reboot to rival China.A lack of good infrastructure and suppliers are the biggest hurdles to making technology products in the country, forcing most of India\u2019s more than 100 different phone companies to get their products from the mature markets of China and Taiwan.\u2022 China\u2019s Baidu could beat Google to self-driving car with BMW", "tags": ["Apple", "iPhone", "Technology", "India", "World news", "Foxconn", "Manufacturing sector", "Business", "Smartphones", "South and Central Asia", "Mobile phones"], "title": "Apple iPhones could soon be built in India"},{"date": "2015-06-06T16:45:55Z", "country": "india", "content": "Bangladesh and India have sealed a deal to swap border territories, more than 40 years after it was negotiated.The prime ministers of both countries watched as bureaucrats signed the pact in Dhaka, Bangladesh\u2019s capital. The deal, reached in 1974 but only recently ratified by India\u2019s parliament, will be seen as a major achievement for Narendra Modi, the Indian prime minister, who won a landslide election last year to take power. \u201c[The deal] will make our borders more secure and people\u2019s lives more stable,\u201d the 64-year-old leader said.Modi has had difficulty delivering achievements domestically, but has been active on the international scene and compared the agreement with the dismantling of the Berlin Wall.\u201c[Foreign policy] is one area where there has been unexpected and major progress,\u201d said C Raja Mohan, an Indian foreign affairs analyst. \u201cThis will open the door for significant co-operations and economic engagement.\u201dJust an hour after Modi\u2019s arrival in Dhaka, top Indian conglomerates signed outline agreements with Bangladesh\u2019s state-run electricity agency to invest some $5bn in the country\u2019s rickety power sector.Indian officials said yesterday\u2019s agreement sent an important signal that the border disputes that plague India\u2019s relations with other regional powers could be solved, but added that disagreements with Bangladesh were easier to resolve than those with rival Asian giant China, or with Pakistan, with which India has fought four wars.The agreement was also a boost for Sheikh Hasina, the prime minister of Bangladesh. Hasina won a disputed election last year which was boycotted by the opposition and dismissed as lacking credibility by some western governments. She has been criticised since for cracking down on dissent.Scores of people have been killed in firebomb attacks on vehicles since opposition leaders called a transport blockade at the start of the year in an attempt to oust the current government. Relations between India and its smaller neighbour have significantly improved since Hasina promised her administration would not allow India\u2019s separatist insurgents to use the porous 2,500-mile border to carry out raids. Eighteen soldiers died in an ambush blamed on the separatists last week. The Indian army helped Bangladesh gain independence from Pakistan in a bloody nine-month war in 1971 and relations have usually been warm.There are hopes now that the border agreement will also boost trade. It will allow tens of thousands of people living in 162 enclaves resulting from ownership arrangements made centuries ago by local princes either side of the border enclaves to choose their nationality after decades of stateless limbo. \u201cThis is a way of cleaning up the mess left by partition [of British India in 1947],\u201d said Mohan. India\u2019s parliament only gave its approval last month.People living in the enclaves will be allowed to choose to live in India or Bangladesh, with the option of being granted citizenship in the newly designated territories, and the enclaves would effectively cease to exist.Wary of China\u2019s growing interest in India\u2019s backyard, Modi has been keen to play a greater leadership role in South Asia since coming to power.He is set to meet Khaleda Zia, the main Bangladesh opposition leader. Indian officials have played down the idea of Modi playing a mediation role in the dispute between Hasina and Zia, although he might press on Zia to ensure an end to anti-government attacks.India held off from criticising Hasina\u2019s re-election in January 2014.", "tags": ["India", "Bangladesh", "Narendra Modi", "World news"], "title": "India and Bangladesh seal border deal, four decades later"},{"date": "2015-05-28T12:26:01Z", "country": "india", "content": "The death toll in India\u2019s heatwave has climbed towards 1,500 as the country sweltered in one of the worst bouts of hot weather for several years.Southern India has borne the brunt of the sudden spell of hot, dry weather. So far more than 1,000 people have died in the state of Andhra Pradesh, more than double the total number of heat-related deaths last summer, authorities said.\u201cThis is the highest death toll due to heatwave ever in the state,\u201d said Tulasi Rani, the special commissioner for disaster management in Andhra Pradesh. \u201cLast year around 447 people died due to heat. This year the heatwave is continuing for a longer period than in previous years.\u201d Related: India heatwave kills more than 500 people Rani said temperatures were two to five degrees higher than the seasonal average.The death toll in neighbouring Telangana, where temperatures hit 48C (118F) over the weekend, stood at 340.Dr T Padmaja, the medical and health officer in Andhra Pradesh\u2019s Guntur district, one of the worst affected areas, said leave had been cancelled for doctors.Local authorities across India have launched intensive awareness campaigns, asking people to stay indoors between 1pm and 4pm and advising them to wear broad-brimmed hats and light-coloured cotton clothes, use umbrellas and drink lots of fluid. Among the most vulnerable are older people and poorer people, many of whom live in slums or farm huts with no access to air conditioners or sometimes even trees which could cast shade.Many victims were day labourers, who need to work to eat. \u201cIf I don\u2019t work due to the heat, how will my family survive?\u201d said Mahalakshmi, who earns a 200 rupees (\u00a32) a day as a construction labourer in the southern city of Nizamabad, Telangana state.The homeless were also badly hit. Near one shelter in Delhi, dozens of men tried to keep cool in the shade of nearby trees. Others begged from the drivers of vehicles waiting at nearby traffic lights. \u201cIf they give me anything I spend it on water at the moment not food,\u201d said Deepak Ram Lal, 42.The capital\u2019s air conditioned metro and shopping malls have become much-sought-after havens from the heat, while power cuts in residential areas were frequent as the grid struggled to cope with the demand from millions of air conditioners.Residents of Gurgaon \u2013 a high-rise satellite city, home to many of the Delhi\u2019s workers \u2013 experienced power cuts of up to 10 hours a day. \u201cNothing is working \u2013 even after taking half a dozen baths a day, you can\u2019t beat the heat,\u201d shop owner Manish Singh said. \u201cIt\u2019s worse than previous years; we hardly get any electricity and the air conditioners become useless.\u201dThe heat has melted roads near the capital and caused problems with maintaining animal welfare at farms and the country\u2019s zoos. Brahma Prakash Yadav, director of the Indian meteorological department, said though maximum temperatures would remain high until the weekend, rain would bring some relief early next week (PDF). The highest temperature ever recorded in the capital was 47.2C, in May 1944. The record in India is thought to be 50.6C, recorded in 1956 in the northern town of Alwar.The death toll is worse than the severe heatwave in 2010, which started much earlier, registering the highest temperatures for decades and lasting for months. But experts say compiling casualty statistics for heatwaves is extremely difficult owing to difficulties in attributing cause of death and registering fatalities in remote areas.May and June are India\u2019s hottest months, with temperatures regularly pushing above 40C. But meteorologists say the number of days when temperatures approach 45C has increased in the past 15 years.The monsoon, predicted to hit southern India\u2019s coastline on 31 May, will bring relief from the high temperatures, but it will not reach the parched north of the country for several weeks.", "tags": ["India", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Meteorology"], "title": "India heatwave continues as death toll exceeds 1,000"},{"date": "2015-05-26T14:00:10Z", "country": "india", "content": "We are going to a family wedding in India later in the year and I want to give my children an introduction to some of the stories from India and to some of the things that will be the same and some which will be different.Drawing on its mythology and from its abundant wildlife there are a great many wonderful stories from India which will help readers of any age gain a sense of Indian history and culture. A good place to start is with the stories about the countryside and the animals in it. Many of the Indian myths are about animals and many of those animals still live in India today. Animal characteristics remain constant over the centuries even if there are many fewer of them and their habitat changes. Gita Wolf\u2019s Gobble You Up!, which is beautifully illustrated by Sunita in finger-painted artwork adapted from a traditional Meena art form, is the story of a scheming jackal who is so idle that he gives up hunting and instead uses trickery. The jackal\u2019s best friend is a crane and it is he who the jackal first tricks into providing him with a feast of fish. In this cumulative story in the tradition of There Was an Old Lady who Swallowed a Fly, the animals that the jackal eats can all be seen in his stomach \u2013 much to the delight of all young readers. Joanna Troughton\u2019s The Tiger Child is a version of a folk tale which explains why tigers eat their food uncooked. In this story the reason comes about because when the tiger child is sent to get some fire from the village he gets distracted and starts playing. By the time the game is over he has forgotten what he had been sent for\u2026 No wonder the tigers at home just ate their meat raw! In a quite different idiom, Rudyard Kipling\u2019s classic The Jungle Book, the story of the little boy Mowgli who is fostered by Father and Mother Wolf and grows up with all the animals as his playfellows, was first published over 100 years ago but it remains a vivid, albeit rather moralising picture of life in the forest. Written for his readers at home in England, Kipling memorably introduces animals including Baloo the Bear, Begheera the Black Panther, Shere Khan the Tiger, Riki Tiki Tavi the mongoose and Kai the Python. Through them the \u2018man-cub\u2019 Mowgli learns the law of the jungle. Another way of giving a big-picture view of India through stories would be through Madhur Jaffrey\u2019s Seasons of Splendour, illustrated by Michael Foreman. The collection of short stories, each of which Jaffrey introduces with anecdotes from her own life, provides an excellent introduction to Hindu beliefs and celebrations. To bring this research for a visit up-to-date, Prodeepta Das\u2019s Geeta\u2019s Day: From Dawn to Dusk in an Indian Village takes a detailed look at Geeta\u2019s life in an Indian village. From early morning worship with her grandmother through a school day and games with her friends afterwards to family dinner and bedtime, everything is recorded in Das\u2019s excellent photographs. Much is familiar in terms of family relationships, friendships, school and play, but much is also different. In a related title, Prita Goes to India, Prodeepta Das uses the same technique but covers more ground in the story about a little girl visiting her family in India.Do you have another favourite book about India to share with us? Email childrens.books@theguardian.com or get in touch on Twitter @GdnchildrensBks, where you can also ask The Book Doctor a question using #BookDoctor. Your suggestions:Sayoni, on emailPicture books: Tiger on a Tree by Anushka Ravishankar (Tara), Excuse Me, Is This India? by Anushka Ravishankar (Tara), Elephants Never Forget by Anushka Ravishankar (Tara).Chapter books: Moin and the Monster by Anushka Ravishankar (Duckbill), Timmi in Tangles by Shals Mahajan (Duckbill), Petu Pumpkin Tiffin Thief by Arundhati Venkatesh (Duckbill).Middle-grade books: Vanamala and the Cephalopod by Shalini Srinivasan (Duckbill), Mystery of the Secret Hair Oil Formula by Asha Nehemiah (Puffin), Book Uncle and Me by Uma Krishnamurty (Scholastic).YA novels: Grasshopper\u2019s Run by Siddharth Sharma (Scholastic), Queen of Ice by Devika Rangachari (Duckbill), Jobless Clueless Reckless by Revathi Suresh.QuirkyDragon, on emailJamila Gavin is a great author for books about India. The Surya trilogy is set both in India and England, during the Raj and Partition. In the first book, Jaspal and Marvinder, who are Sikhs, escape the violence and go to England to track down their father, who was studying there. And that\u2019s just the beginning! The Wheel of Surya, The Eye of the Horse, The Track of the Wind. In Tales from India, Jamila Gavin retells some traditional Hindu legends, such as the creation of the world, and how Ganesh got his elephant\u2019s head. This book is beautifully illustrated.Richard, on emailI have always loved Listen and I\u2019ll Tell You by Edward Korel, illustrated by Quentin Blake. It is a collection of Indian tales linked by a central tale: \u201ctales within tales\u201d.", "tags": ["Children and teenagers", "Children's books: 7 and under", "Children's books: 8-12 years", "Animals", "Picture books", "Rudyard Kipling", "Madhur Jaffrey", "Michael Foreman"], "title": "What are the best children's books about India?"},{"date": "2015-05-25T14:14:22Z", "country": "india", "content": "Authorities in India have rescued more than 20 children from a human trafficking network targeting families who lost their livelihoods in last month\u2019s earthquake in Nepal.The 7.8-magnitude quake, which killed more than 8,600 people, devastated rural areas, with hundreds of thousands losing their homes and possessions.In its aftermath, campaigners warned that girls and young women were vulnerable to abduction by traffickers supplying brothels across south Asia. However, the operation in the northern Indian state of Bihar has underlined another problem: traffickers targeting the children of parents who have lost their jobs in the disaster.\u201cWe have rescued 26 children from the clutches of human traffickers in the past 20 days and sent them to rehabilitation centres,\u201d said Sanjeev Kumar, a senior labour official in Bihar\u2019s East Champaran district. Related: Nepal one month after the quake: 'The emotional impact has been devastating' | Sam Jones The children\u2019s parents, from poor villages in northern India, had been working as migrant labourers in Nepal and were laid off after the earthquake. As they crossed into India at the Raxaul border post, they were convinced to allow their children, between the ages of eight and 14, to travel with the traffickers, who promised to give them well-paid jobs in comfortable conditions.The children were in fact being taken to a bag-manufacturing factory in Mumbai, Kumar said. Four traffickers were detained by the police. Two Nepali children were also intercepted.Though progress has been made in India towards eradicating child labour, the problem remains serious.Last week 28 child labourers, including eight from Nepal, were rescued from a garment factory in the north-western city of Ludhiana by an NGO. They were being paid around 150 rupees (\u00a31.50) a week to stitch T-shirts. The Nepalese children had come to India around two weeks before the earthquake, local media said. \u201cFollowing the Nepal disaster, the fear of children and women falling prey to the human trafficker gangs has increased manifold and so we are keeping a strict vigil along the Indo-Nepal border to prevent such happenings,\u201d Kumar said.The border between India and Nepal is 1,088 miles (1,751km) long and only lightly patrolled.The US Department of State describes Nepal\u2019s government as yet to \u201cfully comply with the minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking \u2026 [But] making significant efforts to do so\u201d. Related: Human traffickers are targeting Nepal \u2013 we must do more to help | Aidan McQuade Anand Tamang, director of the Centre for Research on Environment Health and Population Activities, a Nepalese group that campaigns against child marriage, told Reuters that last month\u2019s quake would lead to a dramatic increase in child marriage and trafficking. \u201cWe know the situation will be much worse,\u201d he said on the sidelines of an international conference on ending child marriage in Casablanca, Morocco. YK Gautam, the state coordinator of Action Against Trafficking and Sexual Exploitation of Children, an Indian NGO in Bihar, described the situation as very serious. \u201cThe Indo-Nepal border at Raxaul has become a vulnerable point in the present situation as just everyone wants to flee Nepal right now. This has increased risks of the fleeing population of quake victims falling into the nets of human trafficking,\u201d Gautam said.Officials say close to 100,000 Indian nationals have returned from Nepal through the India-Nepal border post at Raxaul since last month\u2019s earthquake.\u201cA significant per cent of these people is those who were born, grew up and got employment in Nepal. They are very unclear what to do now,\u201d Gautam said. ", "tags": ["Nepal earthquake 2015", "India", "Nepal", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Human trafficking"], "title": "India rescues children from traffickers exploiting Nepal earthquake aftermath"},{"date": "2015-09-27T12:28:56Z", "country": "india", "content": "India is to launch a mini Hubble-type space observatory, a major step forward for the emerging power\u2019s increasingly capable space programme.Last year, the south Asian nation became the first country to launch a successful Mars orbital mission on its first attempt. At \u00a350m, the robotic probe, which is still circling the red planet, cost a fraction of earlier similar missions by the US, Russia and European countries.The new observatory, dubbed the AstroSat, is due to be launched from the country\u2019s main space centre at Sriharikota in southern India on Monday. If it is successful, India will be the first state in the developing world to have placed its own telescope in space.\u201cThis is the first time we are launching a dedicated astronomy mission,\u201d said K Suryanarayana Sarma, project director of AstroSat at the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO). Related: India's Mars satellite successfully enters orbit, bringing country into space elite  \u201cThis is a unique mission because \u2026 we have a very wide band of astronomical observation with sophisticated instruments with good resolution and specifications,\u201d Sarma said. First conceived in 1996, the project was given the green light in 2004. It is believed to have cost about \u00a335m. One of the reasons for the decade-long delay is the complexities of one specific instrument, a telescope using x-rays that has 320 aluminium mirrors that need to be positioned with extreme accuracy. The instrument was developed in collaboration with the University of Leicester in the UK. Some commentators have questioned comparisons with the Hubble, launched by Nasa in 1990, which has become known for spectacular photographs of events in deep space. \u201cCalling [the] AstroSat \u2018India\u2019s Hubble\u2019 will imply that ISRO has reached that level of engineering capability when it has not. And making that reference repeatedly will only foster complacency about defining the scale and scope of future missions,\u201d wrote Vasudevan Mukunth, on Indian news website The Wire last week.  As well as being 10 times smaller than the Hubble, the AstroSat has a more limited lifespan of five years. This has however some advantages.\u201cWe intend a mission life of five years for the AstroSat. So the question of repairs, like the ones done by astronauts on the Hubble, doesn\u2019t arise,\u201d said Deviprasad Karnik, an ISRO spokesman. Indian scientists say their observatory has an unprecedented array of telescopes that will allow simultaneous data collection through different means. The mission will also be the first time the country will launch US satellites. The launch comes on the day Narendra Modi, the prime minister, is due to meet Barack Obama during a trip to the US. The successful launch of India\u2019s Mars orbiter last year came just days before Modi travelled to the US on his first trip after a landslide electoral victory. It led TV bulletins and filled front pages. The project aims to study the surface and mineral composition of Mars, and scan its atmosphere for methane, a chemical strongly tied to life on Earth. Modi wants to establish India as a bigger player in the \u00a3200bn space technology market, against stiff competition from neighbouring China with its bigger launchers. The Indian prime minister toured Silicon Valley this weekend, meeting CEOs of major tech firms and addressing a rally of Indian Americans in a bid to promote India as a nation of technological innovation and capabilities. \u201cWe have never launched an American satellite [before] \u2026 Politically and scientifically, India launching four American satellites marks the biggest step yet in Indo-US space collaboration,\u201d said Srinivas Laxman, a space science expert. Preparations to put an Indian in space are under way though there has been \u201cno approval from the government for the mission itself\u201d, said Karnik.  \u201cWe are preparing the physical technology. [A] man in space mission is not on the agenda at the moment,\u201d he added.", "tags": ["India", "Space", "Astronomy", "Hubble space telescope", "Science", "US news"], "title": "India to launch country's first space observatory"},{"date": "2015-09-27T12:28:56Z", "country": "india", "content": "India is to launch a mini Hubble-type space observatory, a major step forward for the emerging power\u2019s increasingly capable space programme.Last year, the south Asian nation became the first country to launch a successful Mars orbital mission on its first attempt. At \u00a350m, the robotic probe, which is still circling the red planet, cost a fraction of earlier similar missions by the US, Russia and European countries.The new observatory, dubbed the AstroSat, is due to be launched from the country\u2019s main space centre at Sriharikota in southern India on Monday. If it is successful, India will be the first state in the developing world to have placed its own telescope in space.\u201cThis is the first time we are launching a dedicated astronomy mission,\u201d said K Suryanarayana Sarma, project director of AstroSat at the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO). Related: India's Mars satellite successfully enters orbit, bringing country into space elite  \u201cThis is a unique mission because \u2026 we have a very wide band of astronomical observation with sophisticated instruments with good resolution and specifications,\u201d Sarma said. First conceived in 1996, the project was given the green light in 2004. It is believed to have cost about \u00a335m. One of the reasons for the decade-long delay is the complexities of one specific instrument, a telescope using x-rays that has 320 aluminium mirrors that need to be positioned with extreme accuracy. The instrument was developed in collaboration with the University of Leicester in the UK. Some commentators have questioned comparisons with the Hubble, launched by Nasa in 1990, which has become known for spectacular photographs of events in deep space. \u201cCalling [the] AstroSat \u2018India\u2019s Hubble\u2019 will imply that ISRO has reached that level of engineering capability when it has not. And making that reference repeatedly will only foster complacency about defining the scale and scope of future missions,\u201d wrote Vasudevan Mukunth, on Indian news website The Wire last week.  As well as being 10 times smaller than the Hubble, the AstroSat has a more limited lifespan of five years. This has however some advantages.\u201cWe intend a mission life of five years for the AstroSat. So the question of repairs, like the ones done by astronauts on the Hubble, doesn\u2019t arise,\u201d said Deviprasad Karnik, an ISRO spokesman. Indian scientists say their observatory has an unprecedented array of telescopes that will allow simultaneous data collection through different means. The mission will also be the first time the country will launch US satellites. The launch comes on the day Narendra Modi, the prime minister, is due to meet Barack Obama during a trip to the US. The successful launch of India\u2019s Mars orbiter last year came just days before Modi travelled to the US on his first trip after a landslide electoral victory. It led TV bulletins and filled front pages. The project aims to study the surface and mineral composition of Mars, and scan its atmosphere for methane, a chemical strongly tied to life on Earth. Modi wants to establish India as a bigger player in the \u00a3200bn space technology market, against stiff competition from neighbouring China with its bigger launchers. The Indian prime minister toured Silicon Valley this weekend, meeting CEOs of major tech firms and addressing a rally of Indian Americans in a bid to promote India as a nation of technological innovation and capabilities. \u201cWe have never launched an American satellite [before] \u2026 Politically and scientifically, India launching four American satellites marks the biggest step yet in Indo-US space collaboration,\u201d said Srinivas Laxman, a space science expert. Preparations to put an Indian in space are under way though there has been \u201cno approval from the government for the mission itself\u201d, said Karnik.  \u201cWe are preparing the physical technology. [A] man in space mission is not on the agenda at the moment,\u201d he added.", "tags": ["India", "Space", "Astronomy", "Hubble space telescope", "Science", "US news"], "title": "India to launch country's first space observatory"},{"date": "2015-08-31T03:39:52Z", "country": "india", "content": "If the tigers of Panna are under threat of being displaced by a dam, the tigers of nearby Kanha, Pench, and Navegaon Nagzira tiger reserves in the two central Indian states of Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra are in danger from a highway.The National Highways Authority of India proposes to widen a 50-km (31-mile) stretch of road to a four-lane divided highway connecting Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh, with Nagpur, Maharashtra. While allowing humans to hurtle between these two cities, the road slices two tiger corridors: Pench-Nagzira corridor in Maharashtra and the Pench-Kanha corridor in Madhya Pradesh. Although National Highway 7 (NH7) exists already, widening it will aggravate the problem it poses to wildlife. Central Indian forests hold about 33% of India\u2019s tigers, 688 of them.According to the National Tiger Conservation Authority, a tiger population needs at least 80 to 100 adults to be self-sustaining. None of the tiger reserves in central India host a viable tiger population independently. Corridors are essential for these reserves to sustain tigers and other wild animals. For example, the lack of corridors caused a native population of gaur to go extinct in Bandhavgarh National Park in 1997.Camera trapping, genetic analysis, and radio telemetry studies show these corridors are active animal routes. Tigers are not the only ones using them; gaur, leopards, sloth bears, and wild dogs are some of the other large mammals that disperse along these paths. The National Tiger Conservation Authority said widening the road would cause irreparable damage to tiger habitat and turned down the proposal.The Wildlife Institute of India declared the two corridors are essential for the genetic diversity of the large cats. WWF-India called NH7 a \u201cmajor barrier for animals near the Pench Tiger Reserve\u201d in a report \u2018Lifeline for tigers.\u2019 The National Board of Wildlife did not view the proposal favourably and neither did the Forest Advisory Committee. The Central Empowered Committee of the Supreme Court called for the road to be shut down.This opposition ought to have shut the lid on the proposal.A Times of India report of 20 September 2013 describing the potholed NH7 as \u2018Highway to hell\u2019 marked a turning point. The Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court jumped in, by initiating legal proceedings based on the news report. At first, it ordered the road to be re-paved, but later demanded the highway be upgraded, without realising forest and wildlife clearances are necessary. But even after two years and numerous press reports, the court insists it has the authority to unilaterally order the road to be widened.The Ministry of Environment and Forests gave initial environmental clearance in December 2013. In February 2015, the high court and state government issued permissions to the highways authority to knock down trees over a 10-km (6-mile) stretch of NH7.However, none of the permissions, whether issued by the high court, the ministry, or the state, were legally valid since they ran afoul of the Forest Conservation Act and the Wildlife Protection Act. Instead of evaluating the merits of the case and its impact on wildlife, the wildlife board hurriedly cleared the project on 18 August. It didn\u2019t follow its own guidelines on how to deal with roads passing through protected forests. The ministry will likely push through the clearance required under the Forest Conservation Act as well. After all, it has gained a reputation among environmentalists and conservationists for cursorily approving any project that requires forests to be destroyed.The Wildlife Institute of India, which had initially objected to the road widening, changed its stand. Presumably capitulating under pressure from the ministry, high court, and/or the highways authority, it agreed that the road could be widened as long as underpasses were built to allow passage of wildlife at the cost of rupees 750 crores (\u00a373.6m).The National Highways Authority grudgingly committed to nine elevated sections along the road for the safe passage of wild animals at a cost of rupees 100 crores (\u00a39.82m). On 5 May 2015, conservation organisations filed an appeal in the National Green Tribunal challenging the permissions granted by the ministry and state. The tribunal stayed all further work on the highway.In a bizarre situation, two judicial bodies are at conflict with each other. Justice Gavai of the Bombay High Court disparaged the tribunal \u201cYou [the petitioner] chose to approach some tribunal which has been created under some Act.\u201d Justice Swatanter Kumar, the Chairperson of the National Green Tribunal, questioned how the high court could have allowed felling of trees in the absence of legal compliance. While one demanded that trees be chopped as soon as possible, the other sought assurances that not a single tree be hacked.About 49.25 hectares (121.70 acres) of forests would have to be leveled for widening NH7. That may not sound like much, but a road creates an edge along which the forest frays slowly. Safe havens for wildlife shrink as the increased disturbance from roads pushes animals farther into the interior. More traffic brings more air, noise, and light pollution in areas that need to be protected.But wildlife activists fear that a wide, divided, slick highway through some of the best forests of central India would become a death trap for wild animals. Roadkills are a major concern. For instance, highway traffic through Bandipur National Park, Karnataka, is now limited to daylight hours to reduce the mortality of wild animals. Most importantly, if the road is widened now, the highways authority might seek to make it even wider in the future.None of this anxiety is necessary because there is an alternative.The Wildlife Trust of India proposed another existing highway as a substitute to NH7 in 2009. It is a mere 70 km (43.4 miles) longer than the road cutting through tiger corridors. At that time, the highways authority quibbled that it was a state highway and cannot be upgraded to national highway. But since then, it has not only upgraded it to national highway status, but widened NH69 to a four-lane carriageway. Wildlife conservation organisations, including Bombay Natural History Society and Wildlife Institute of India, support this alternate route.NH69 cuts through good forest at Sillewani Ghat for 11 km, but wildlife activists recognise the need for road connectivity and the greater importance of leaving NH7 alone. This could be a win-win situation since NH69 has already been made. It saves the highways authority rupees 100 crore in building underpasses in Maharashtra alone. Madhya Pradesh would also have to build such structures on its side of the border at rupees 860 crores (\u00a384.4m).Almost all agencies that ought to protect wild habitats and species - the ministry, the state, wildlife institute, and the tiger authority - currently appear to support the highways authority\u2019s proposal. The case now rests with the tribunal.So what is it going to be?A 70-km detour or the future of three tiger reserves?", "tags": ["Wildlife", "Animals", "Conservation", "Endangered habitats", "India", "Environment", "Endangered species", "South and Central Asia", "Trees and forests"], "title": "India: No country for wild tigers? | Janaki Lenin"},{"date": "2015-09-27T12:28:56Z", "country": "india", "content": "India is to launch a mini Hubble-type space observatory, a major step forward for the emerging power\u2019s increasingly capable space programme.Last year, the south Asian nation became the first country to launch a successful Mars orbital mission on its first attempt. At \u00a350m, the robotic probe, which is still circling the red planet, cost a fraction of earlier similar missions by the US, Russia and European countries.The new observatory, dubbed the AstroSat, is due to be launched from the country\u2019s main space centre at Sriharikota in southern India on Monday. If it is successful, India will be the first state in the developing world to have placed its own telescope in space.\u201cThis is the first time we are launching a dedicated astronomy mission,\u201d said K Suryanarayana Sarma, project director of AstroSat at the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO). Related: India's Mars satellite successfully enters orbit, bringing country into space elite  \u201cThis is a unique mission because \u2026 we have a very wide band of astronomical observation with sophisticated instruments with good resolution and specifications,\u201d Sarma said. First conceived in 1996, the project was given the green light in 2004. It is believed to have cost about \u00a335m. One of the reasons for the decade-long delay is the complexities of one specific instrument, a telescope using x-rays that has 320 aluminium mirrors that need to be positioned with extreme accuracy. The instrument was developed in collaboration with the University of Leicester in the UK. Some commentators have questioned comparisons with the Hubble, launched by Nasa in 1990, which has become known for spectacular photographs of events in deep space. \u201cCalling [the] AstroSat \u2018India\u2019s Hubble\u2019 will imply that ISRO has reached that level of engineering capability when it has not. And making that reference repeatedly will only foster complacency about defining the scale and scope of future missions,\u201d wrote Vasudevan Mukunth, on Indian news website The Wire last week.  As well as being 10 times smaller than the Hubble, the AstroSat has a more limited lifespan of five years. This has however some advantages.\u201cWe intend a mission life of five years for the AstroSat. So the question of repairs, like the ones done by astronauts on the Hubble, doesn\u2019t arise,\u201d said Deviprasad Karnik, an ISRO spokesman. Indian scientists say their observatory has an unprecedented array of telescopes that will allow simultaneous data collection through different means. The mission will also be the first time the country will launch US satellites. The launch comes on the day Narendra Modi, the prime minister, is due to meet Barack Obama during a trip to the US. The successful launch of India\u2019s Mars orbiter last year came just days before Modi travelled to the US on his first trip after a landslide electoral victory. It led TV bulletins and filled front pages. The project aims to study the surface and mineral composition of Mars, and scan its atmosphere for methane, a chemical strongly tied to life on Earth. Modi wants to establish India as a bigger player in the \u00a3200bn space technology market, against stiff competition from neighbouring China with its bigger launchers. The Indian prime minister toured Silicon Valley this weekend, meeting CEOs of major tech firms and addressing a rally of Indian Americans in a bid to promote India as a nation of technological innovation and capabilities. \u201cWe have never launched an American satellite [before] \u2026 Politically and scientifically, India launching four American satellites marks the biggest step yet in Indo-US space collaboration,\u201d said Srinivas Laxman, a space science expert. Preparations to put an Indian in space are under way though there has been \u201cno approval from the government for the mission itself\u201d, said Karnik.  \u201cWe are preparing the physical technology. [A] man in space mission is not on the agenda at the moment,\u201d he added.", "tags": ["India", "Space", "Astronomy", "Hubble space telescope", "Science", "US news"], "title": "India to launch country's first space observatory"},{"date": "2015-08-31T03:39:52Z", "country": "india", "content": "If the tigers of Panna are under threat of being displaced by a dam, the tigers of nearby Kanha, Pench, and Navegaon Nagzira tiger reserves in the two central Indian states of Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra are in danger from a highway.The National Highways Authority of India proposes to widen a 50-km (31-mile) stretch of road to a four-lane divided highway connecting Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh, with Nagpur, Maharashtra. While allowing humans to hurtle between these two cities, the road slices two tiger corridors: Pench-Nagzira corridor in Maharashtra and the Pench-Kanha corridor in Madhya Pradesh. Although National Highway 7 (NH7) exists already, widening it will aggravate the problem it poses to wildlife. Central Indian forests hold about 33% of India\u2019s tigers, 688 of them.According to the National Tiger Conservation Authority, a tiger population needs at least 80 to 100 adults to be self-sustaining. None of the tiger reserves in central India host a viable tiger population independently. Corridors are essential for these reserves to sustain tigers and other wild animals. For example, the lack of corridors caused a native population of gaur to go extinct in Bandhavgarh National Park in 1997.Camera trapping, genetic analysis, and radio telemetry studies show these corridors are active animal routes. Tigers are not the only ones using them; gaur, leopards, sloth bears, and wild dogs are some of the other large mammals that disperse along these paths. The National Tiger Conservation Authority said widening the road would cause irreparable damage to tiger habitat and turned down the proposal.The Wildlife Institute of India declared the two corridors are essential for the genetic diversity of the large cats. WWF-India called NH7 a \u201cmajor barrier for animals near the Pench Tiger Reserve\u201d in a report \u2018Lifeline for tigers.\u2019 The National Board of Wildlife did not view the proposal favourably and neither did the Forest Advisory Committee. The Central Empowered Committee of the Supreme Court called for the road to be shut down.This opposition ought to have shut the lid on the proposal.A Times of India report of 20 September 2013 describing the potholed NH7 as \u2018Highway to hell\u2019 marked a turning point. The Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court jumped in, by initiating legal proceedings based on the news report. At first, it ordered the road to be re-paved, but later demanded the highway be upgraded, without realising forest and wildlife clearances are necessary. But even after two years and numerous press reports, the court insists it has the authority to unilaterally order the road to be widened.The Ministry of Environment and Forests gave initial environmental clearance in December 2013. In February 2015, the high court and state government issued permissions to the highways authority to knock down trees over a 10-km (6-mile) stretch of NH7.However, none of the permissions, whether issued by the high court, the ministry, or the state, were legally valid since they ran afoul of the Forest Conservation Act and the Wildlife Protection Act. Instead of evaluating the merits of the case and its impact on wildlife, the wildlife board hurriedly cleared the project on 18 August. It didn\u2019t follow its own guidelines on how to deal with roads passing through protected forests. The ministry will likely push through the clearance required under the Forest Conservation Act as well. After all, it has gained a reputation among environmentalists and conservationists for cursorily approving any project that requires forests to be destroyed.The Wildlife Institute of India, which had initially objected to the road widening, changed its stand. Presumably capitulating under pressure from the ministry, high court, and/or the highways authority, it agreed that the road could be widened as long as underpasses were built to allow passage of wildlife at the cost of rupees 750 crores (\u00a373.6m).The National Highways Authority grudgingly committed to nine elevated sections along the road for the safe passage of wild animals at a cost of rupees 100 crores (\u00a39.82m). On 5 May 2015, conservation organisations filed an appeal in the National Green Tribunal challenging the permissions granted by the ministry and state. The tribunal stayed all further work on the highway.In a bizarre situation, two judicial bodies are at conflict with each other. Justice Gavai of the Bombay High Court disparaged the tribunal \u201cYou [the petitioner] chose to approach some tribunal which has been created under some Act.\u201d Justice Swatanter Kumar, the Chairperson of the National Green Tribunal, questioned how the high court could have allowed felling of trees in the absence of legal compliance. While one demanded that trees be chopped as soon as possible, the other sought assurances that not a single tree be hacked.About 49.25 hectares (121.70 acres) of forests would have to be leveled for widening NH7. That may not sound like much, but a road creates an edge along which the forest frays slowly. Safe havens for wildlife shrink as the increased disturbance from roads pushes animals farther into the interior. More traffic brings more air, noise, and light pollution in areas that need to be protected.But wildlife activists fear that a wide, divided, slick highway through some of the best forests of central India would become a death trap for wild animals. Roadkills are a major concern. For instance, highway traffic through Bandipur National Park, Karnataka, is now limited to daylight hours to reduce the mortality of wild animals. Most importantly, if the road is widened now, the highways authority might seek to make it even wider in the future.None of this anxiety is necessary because there is an alternative.The Wildlife Trust of India proposed another existing highway as a substitute to NH7 in 2009. It is a mere 70 km (43.4 miles) longer than the road cutting through tiger corridors. At that time, the highways authority quibbled that it was a state highway and cannot be upgraded to national highway. But since then, it has not only upgraded it to national highway status, but widened NH69 to a four-lane carriageway. Wildlife conservation organisations, including Bombay Natural History Society and Wildlife Institute of India, support this alternate route.NH69 cuts through good forest at Sillewani Ghat for 11 km, but wildlife activists recognise the need for road connectivity and the greater importance of leaving NH7 alone. This could be a win-win situation since NH69 has already been made. It saves the highways authority rupees 100 crore in building underpasses in Maharashtra alone. Madhya Pradesh would also have to build such structures on its side of the border at rupees 860 crores (\u00a384.4m).Almost all agencies that ought to protect wild habitats and species - the ministry, the state, wildlife institute, and the tiger authority - currently appear to support the highways authority\u2019s proposal. The case now rests with the tribunal.So what is it going to be?A 70-km detour or the future of three tiger reserves?", "tags": ["Wildlife", "Animals", "Conservation", "Endangered habitats", "India", "Environment", "Endangered species", "South and Central Asia", "Trees and forests"], "title": "India: No country for wild tigers? | Janaki Lenin"},{"date": "2015-08-03T05:49:16Z", "country": "india", "content": "Heavy monsoon rains have killed more than 100 people in India in the past week and forced tens of thousands of people to take shelter in state-run relief camps, India\u2019s home ministry has said.A cyclone struck the worst-hit state of West Bengal, where 48 people have died and nearly 215,000 villagers have been taken to relief camps after heavy rains triggered flooding, the ministry statement said.More than 200 medical teams using 120 boats have so far distributed more than 400,000 drinking water pouches in an effort to prevent the outbreak of water-borne diseases, according to authorities.Heavy rains have also caused widespread flooding in Burma, where at least 27 people have died and four areas have been declared disaster zones. The UN has warned that the situation could get much worse.Another 28 deaths were reported from Rajasthan in western India where rescue workers evacuated nearly 1,000 people to higher ground.On Saturday, at least 20 people were swept away by a landslide that flattened up to 10 homes in Jourmol, a village in north-eastern Manipur state, a spokesman for the national disaster response force said on Sunday.The annual monsoon season in India stretches from June until the end of September causing deaths and severe damage to homes and food crops.", "tags": ["India", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Monsoon rains leave 100 dead in India"},{"date": "2015-09-27T12:28:56Z", "country": "india", "content": "India is to launch a mini Hubble-type space observatory, a major step forward for the emerging power\u2019s increasingly capable space programme.Last year, the south Asian nation became the first country to launch a successful Mars orbital mission on its first attempt. At \u00a350m, the robotic probe, which is still circling the red planet, cost a fraction of earlier similar missions by the US, Russia and European countries.The new observatory, dubbed the AstroSat, is due to be launched from the country\u2019s main space centre at Sriharikota in southern India on Monday. If it is successful, India will be the first state in the developing world to have placed its own telescope in space.\u201cThis is the first time we are launching a dedicated astronomy mission,\u201d said K Suryanarayana Sarma, project director of AstroSat at the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO). Related: India's Mars satellite successfully enters orbit, bringing country into space elite  \u201cThis is a unique mission because \u2026 we have a very wide band of astronomical observation with sophisticated instruments with good resolution and specifications,\u201d Sarma said. First conceived in 1996, the project was given the green light in 2004. It is believed to have cost about \u00a335m. One of the reasons for the decade-long delay is the complexities of one specific instrument, a telescope using x-rays that has 320 aluminium mirrors that need to be positioned with extreme accuracy. The instrument was developed in collaboration with the University of Leicester in the UK. Some commentators have questioned comparisons with the Hubble, launched by Nasa in 1990, which has become known for spectacular photographs of events in deep space. \u201cCalling [the] AstroSat \u2018India\u2019s Hubble\u2019 will imply that ISRO has reached that level of engineering capability when it has not. And making that reference repeatedly will only foster complacency about defining the scale and scope of future missions,\u201d wrote Vasudevan Mukunth, on Indian news website The Wire last week.  As well as being 10 times smaller than the Hubble, the AstroSat has a more limited lifespan of five years. This has however some advantages.\u201cWe intend a mission life of five years for the AstroSat. So the question of repairs, like the ones done by astronauts on the Hubble, doesn\u2019t arise,\u201d said Deviprasad Karnik, an ISRO spokesman. Indian scientists say their observatory has an unprecedented array of telescopes that will allow simultaneous data collection through different means. The mission will also be the first time the country will launch US satellites. The launch comes on the day Narendra Modi, the prime minister, is due to meet Barack Obama during a trip to the US. The successful launch of India\u2019s Mars orbiter last year came just days before Modi travelled to the US on his first trip after a landslide electoral victory. It led TV bulletins and filled front pages. The project aims to study the surface and mineral composition of Mars, and scan its atmosphere for methane, a chemical strongly tied to life on Earth. Modi wants to establish India as a bigger player in the \u00a3200bn space technology market, against stiff competition from neighbouring China with its bigger launchers. The Indian prime minister toured Silicon Valley this weekend, meeting CEOs of major tech firms and addressing a rally of Indian Americans in a bid to promote India as a nation of technological innovation and capabilities. \u201cWe have never launched an American satellite [before] \u2026 Politically and scientifically, India launching four American satellites marks the biggest step yet in Indo-US space collaboration,\u201d said Srinivas Laxman, a space science expert. Preparations to put an Indian in space are under way though there has been \u201cno approval from the government for the mission itself\u201d, said Karnik.  \u201cWe are preparing the physical technology. [A] man in space mission is not on the agenda at the moment,\u201d he added.", "tags": ["India", "Space", "Astronomy", "Hubble space telescope", "Science", "US news"], "title": "India to launch country's first space observatory"},{"date": "2015-08-31T03:39:52Z", "country": "india", "content": "If the tigers of Panna are under threat of being displaced by a dam, the tigers of nearby Kanha, Pench, and Navegaon Nagzira tiger reserves in the two central Indian states of Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra are in danger from a highway.The National Highways Authority of India proposes to widen a 50-km (31-mile) stretch of road to a four-lane divided highway connecting Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh, with Nagpur, Maharashtra. While allowing humans to hurtle between these two cities, the road slices two tiger corridors: Pench-Nagzira corridor in Maharashtra and the Pench-Kanha corridor in Madhya Pradesh. Although National Highway 7 (NH7) exists already, widening it will aggravate the problem it poses to wildlife. Central Indian forests hold about 33% of India\u2019s tigers, 688 of them.According to the National Tiger Conservation Authority, a tiger population needs at least 80 to 100 adults to be self-sustaining. None of the tiger reserves in central India host a viable tiger population independently. Corridors are essential for these reserves to sustain tigers and other wild animals. For example, the lack of corridors caused a native population of gaur to go extinct in Bandhavgarh National Park in 1997.Camera trapping, genetic analysis, and radio telemetry studies show these corridors are active animal routes. Tigers are not the only ones using them; gaur, leopards, sloth bears, and wild dogs are some of the other large mammals that disperse along these paths. The National Tiger Conservation Authority said widening the road would cause irreparable damage to tiger habitat and turned down the proposal.The Wildlife Institute of India declared the two corridors are essential for the genetic diversity of the large cats. WWF-India called NH7 a \u201cmajor barrier for animals near the Pench Tiger Reserve\u201d in a report \u2018Lifeline for tigers.\u2019 The National Board of Wildlife did not view the proposal favourably and neither did the Forest Advisory Committee. The Central Empowered Committee of the Supreme Court called for the road to be shut down.This opposition ought to have shut the lid on the proposal.A Times of India report of 20 September 2013 describing the potholed NH7 as \u2018Highway to hell\u2019 marked a turning point. The Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court jumped in, by initiating legal proceedings based on the news report. At first, it ordered the road to be re-paved, but later demanded the highway be upgraded, without realising forest and wildlife clearances are necessary. But even after two years and numerous press reports, the court insists it has the authority to unilaterally order the road to be widened.The Ministry of Environment and Forests gave initial environmental clearance in December 2013. In February 2015, the high court and state government issued permissions to the highways authority to knock down trees over a 10-km (6-mile) stretch of NH7.However, none of the permissions, whether issued by the high court, the ministry, or the state, were legally valid since they ran afoul of the Forest Conservation Act and the Wildlife Protection Act. Instead of evaluating the merits of the case and its impact on wildlife, the wildlife board hurriedly cleared the project on 18 August. It didn\u2019t follow its own guidelines on how to deal with roads passing through protected forests. The ministry will likely push through the clearance required under the Forest Conservation Act as well. After all, it has gained a reputation among environmentalists and conservationists for cursorily approving any project that requires forests to be destroyed.The Wildlife Institute of India, which had initially objected to the road widening, changed its stand. Presumably capitulating under pressure from the ministry, high court, and/or the highways authority, it agreed that the road could be widened as long as underpasses were built to allow passage of wildlife at the cost of rupees 750 crores (\u00a373.6m).The National Highways Authority grudgingly committed to nine elevated sections along the road for the safe passage of wild animals at a cost of rupees 100 crores (\u00a39.82m). On 5 May 2015, conservation organisations filed an appeal in the National Green Tribunal challenging the permissions granted by the ministry and state. The tribunal stayed all further work on the highway.In a bizarre situation, two judicial bodies are at conflict with each other. Justice Gavai of the Bombay High Court disparaged the tribunal \u201cYou [the petitioner] chose to approach some tribunal which has been created under some Act.\u201d Justice Swatanter Kumar, the Chairperson of the National Green Tribunal, questioned how the high court could have allowed felling of trees in the absence of legal compliance. While one demanded that trees be chopped as soon as possible, the other sought assurances that not a single tree be hacked.About 49.25 hectares (121.70 acres) of forests would have to be leveled for widening NH7. That may not sound like much, but a road creates an edge along which the forest frays slowly. Safe havens for wildlife shrink as the increased disturbance from roads pushes animals farther into the interior. More traffic brings more air, noise, and light pollution in areas that need to be protected.But wildlife activists fear that a wide, divided, slick highway through some of the best forests of central India would become a death trap for wild animals. Roadkills are a major concern. For instance, highway traffic through Bandipur National Park, Karnataka, is now limited to daylight hours to reduce the mortality of wild animals. Most importantly, if the road is widened now, the highways authority might seek to make it even wider in the future.None of this anxiety is necessary because there is an alternative.The Wildlife Trust of India proposed another existing highway as a substitute to NH7 in 2009. It is a mere 70 km (43.4 miles) longer than the road cutting through tiger corridors. At that time, the highways authority quibbled that it was a state highway and cannot be upgraded to national highway. But since then, it has not only upgraded it to national highway status, but widened NH69 to a four-lane carriageway. Wildlife conservation organisations, including Bombay Natural History Society and Wildlife Institute of India, support this alternate route.NH69 cuts through good forest at Sillewani Ghat for 11 km, but wildlife activists recognise the need for road connectivity and the greater importance of leaving NH7 alone. This could be a win-win situation since NH69 has already been made. It saves the highways authority rupees 100 crore in building underpasses in Maharashtra alone. Madhya Pradesh would also have to build such structures on its side of the border at rupees 860 crores (\u00a384.4m).Almost all agencies that ought to protect wild habitats and species - the ministry, the state, wildlife institute, and the tiger authority - currently appear to support the highways authority\u2019s proposal. The case now rests with the tribunal.So what is it going to be?A 70-km detour or the future of three tiger reserves?", "tags": ["Wildlife", "Animals", "Conservation", "Endangered habitats", "India", "Environment", "Endangered species", "South and Central Asia", "Trees and forests"], "title": "India: No country for wild tigers? | Janaki Lenin"},{"date": "2015-08-03T05:49:16Z", "country": "india", "content": "Heavy monsoon rains have killed more than 100 people in India in the past week and forced tens of thousands of people to take shelter in state-run relief camps, India\u2019s home ministry has said.A cyclone struck the worst-hit state of West Bengal, where 48 people have died and nearly 215,000 villagers have been taken to relief camps after heavy rains triggered flooding, the ministry statement said.More than 200 medical teams using 120 boats have so far distributed more than 400,000 drinking water pouches in an effort to prevent the outbreak of water-borne diseases, according to authorities.Heavy rains have also caused widespread flooding in Burma, where at least 27 people have died and four areas have been declared disaster zones. The UN has warned that the situation could get much worse.Another 28 deaths were reported from Rajasthan in western India where rescue workers evacuated nearly 1,000 people to higher ground.On Saturday, at least 20 people were swept away by a landslide that flattened up to 10 homes in Jourmol, a village in north-eastern Manipur state, a spokesman for the national disaster response force said on Sunday.The annual monsoon season in India stretches from June until the end of September causing deaths and severe damage to homes and food crops.", "tags": ["India", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Monsoon rains leave 100 dead in India"},{"date": "2015-09-29T12:12:33Z", "country": "india", "content": "Last week, 63 million people were cut off from internet and mobile phone access in Gujarat, India. This didn\u2019t stop Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg and Indian prime minister Narendra Modi proclaiming over the weekend that communications access and, in particular, internet access, is the next important step in development. Modi didn\u2019t seem bothered by the fact that, following mass demonstrations, a population the size of the UK lost all phone and internet communications for the second time in less than a month. The world barely noticed.India is not alone. In Syria, the internet is used as a weapon of war \u2013 the disconnection of communications plays a central role in the conflict. In the Democratic Republic of Congo, similarly, connections were cut following mass demonstrations against the government.And before anyone suggests that only less developed countries resort to drastic disconnection, similar measures have been discussed in case of an \u201cemergency\u201d in the US, UK and Germany. The British government discussed quite extensively whether to shut down various communication channels during the 2011 riots. Pakistan bears the dubious honour of leading the world in government-ordered communications shutdowns, with at least 24 large-scale disconnections since 2012\u00ad. Marked like few other nations by the global war on terror, even the highest ranks of government in Pakistan complain about the overwhelming power of the military. National security measures frequently go overboard, and the human rights of the populations affected are only insufficiently considered.Some 80% of people in Pakistan have mobile phone access. One in four holds a smartphone. When communications are disconnected, the economy is seriously affected, and mobility and social relations are severed. Neither ambulances nor fire departments can be contacted quickly. Despite the impressive resilience of the Pakistani people, the social consequences cannot be overlooked.A new research study between London, Islamabad and Berlin found that, when communications are disconnected, the same regions already affected by other forms of exclusion are the worst hit. Large political rallies, but also regions seen as leaning towards the Taliban, are the most frequently affected by shutdowns in Pakistan. Since society constitutes through communication, for these communities, prevention of communication also constitutes exclusion from society. This logic extends to the waves of refugees moving across Europe. The issue here is that people don\u2019t just need the internet to \u201cphone home\u201d \u2013 they need access to become part of European society. The internet is used to access education, entertainment and culture. It grounds social participation, and is the mechanism for accessing many key services. In the current crisis, the physical separation of refugees is augmented by digital separation.\u201cAll the internet. All the people. All the time.\u201d Nigerian web activist Nnenna Nwakanma\u2019s call to action is simple to state, but hard to accomplish. Every crisis offers a new excuse for restrictions, and every \u201cdevelopment problem\u201d invites post-colonial reflex. Take Internet.org, the initiative proudly championed by Facebook and partners. Facebook\u2019s offer \u2013 recently partly rebranded Free Basics, in an effort to take the sting out of controversy about walled gardens, privacy and security \u2013 has more to do with access to Facebook than to the internet, and is a clever advertising campaign for Facebook\u2019s rollout in emerging markets. But we\u2019ve yet to see any serious attempt, notwithstanding Zuckerberg\u2019s weekend celebrity appeal with Bono, to resolving deep challenges of universal access.Given this landscape, we shouldn\u2019t be surprised that we have left governments and corporations with the power to completely turn off the internet. Without the protection that accompanies the creation of public services \u2013 such as electricity or water \u00ad\u2013 access to the internet and telecommunications are in discretionary hands. This gives both Modi and Zuckerberg the ability to flip the switch. Rather than providing all the internet to all the people all the time, we\u2019re allowing a few powerful men to make the internet a commodity of their choosing. ", "tags": ["Facebook", "Internet", "Technology", "Social networking", "India", "Pakistan"], "title": "Internet access matters \u00ad\u00ad\u2013 will Facebook or India provide it?"},{"date": "2015-09-27T12:28:56Z", "country": "india", "content": "India is to launch a mini Hubble-type space observatory, a major step forward for the emerging power\u2019s increasingly capable space programme.Last year, the south Asian nation became the first country to launch a successful Mars orbital mission on its first attempt. At \u00a350m, the robotic probe, which is still circling the red planet, cost a fraction of earlier similar missions by the US, Russia and European countries.The new observatory, dubbed the AstroSat, is due to be launched from the country\u2019s main space centre at Sriharikota in southern India on Monday. If it is successful, India will be the first state in the developing world to have placed its own telescope in space.\u201cThis is the first time we are launching a dedicated astronomy mission,\u201d said K Suryanarayana Sarma, project director of AstroSat at the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO). Related: India's Mars satellite successfully enters orbit, bringing country into space elite  \u201cThis is a unique mission because \u2026 we have a very wide band of astronomical observation with sophisticated instruments with good resolution and specifications,\u201d Sarma said. First conceived in 1996, the project was given the green light in 2004. It is believed to have cost about \u00a335m. One of the reasons for the decade-long delay is the complexities of one specific instrument, a telescope using x-rays that has 320 aluminium mirrors that need to be positioned with extreme accuracy. The instrument was developed in collaboration with the University of Leicester in the UK. Some commentators have questioned comparisons with the Hubble, launched by Nasa in 1990, which has become known for spectacular photographs of events in deep space. \u201cCalling [the] AstroSat \u2018India\u2019s Hubble\u2019 will imply that ISRO has reached that level of engineering capability when it has not. And making that reference repeatedly will only foster complacency about defining the scale and scope of future missions,\u201d wrote Vasudevan Mukunth, on Indian news website The Wire last week.  As well as being 10 times smaller than the Hubble, the AstroSat has a more limited lifespan of five years. This has however some advantages.\u201cWe intend a mission life of five years for the AstroSat. So the question of repairs, like the ones done by astronauts on the Hubble, doesn\u2019t arise,\u201d said Deviprasad Karnik, an ISRO spokesman. Indian scientists say their observatory has an unprecedented array of telescopes that will allow simultaneous data collection through different means. The mission will also be the first time the country will launch US satellites. The launch comes on the day Narendra Modi, the prime minister, is due to meet Barack Obama during a trip to the US. The successful launch of India\u2019s Mars orbiter last year came just days before Modi travelled to the US on his first trip after a landslide electoral victory. It led TV bulletins and filled front pages. The project aims to study the surface and mineral composition of Mars, and scan its atmosphere for methane, a chemical strongly tied to life on Earth. Modi wants to establish India as a bigger player in the \u00a3200bn space technology market, against stiff competition from neighbouring China with its bigger launchers. The Indian prime minister toured Silicon Valley this weekend, meeting CEOs of major tech firms and addressing a rally of Indian Americans in a bid to promote India as a nation of technological innovation and capabilities. \u201cWe have never launched an American satellite [before] \u2026 Politically and scientifically, India launching four American satellites marks the biggest step yet in Indo-US space collaboration,\u201d said Srinivas Laxman, a space science expert. Preparations to put an Indian in space are under way though there has been \u201cno approval from the government for the mission itself\u201d, said Karnik.  \u201cWe are preparing the physical technology. [A] man in space mission is not on the agenda at the moment,\u201d he added.", "tags": ["India", "Space", "Astronomy", "Hubble space telescope", "Science", "US news"], "title": "India to launch country's first space observatory"},{"date": "2015-08-31T03:39:52Z", "country": "india", "content": "If the tigers of Panna are under threat of being displaced by a dam, the tigers of nearby Kanha, Pench, and Navegaon Nagzira tiger reserves in the two central Indian states of Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra are in danger from a highway.The National Highways Authority of India proposes to widen a 50-km (31-mile) stretch of road to a four-lane divided highway connecting Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh, with Nagpur, Maharashtra. While allowing humans to hurtle between these two cities, the road slices two tiger corridors: Pench-Nagzira corridor in Maharashtra and the Pench-Kanha corridor in Madhya Pradesh. Although National Highway 7 (NH7) exists already, widening it will aggravate the problem it poses to wildlife. Central Indian forests hold about 33% of India\u2019s tigers, 688 of them.According to the National Tiger Conservation Authority, a tiger population needs at least 80 to 100 adults to be self-sustaining. None of the tiger reserves in central India host a viable tiger population independently. Corridors are essential for these reserves to sustain tigers and other wild animals. For example, the lack of corridors caused a native population of gaur to go extinct in Bandhavgarh National Park in 1997.Camera trapping, genetic analysis, and radio telemetry studies show these corridors are active animal routes. Tigers are not the only ones using them; gaur, leopards, sloth bears, and wild dogs are some of the other large mammals that disperse along these paths. The National Tiger Conservation Authority said widening the road would cause irreparable damage to tiger habitat and turned down the proposal.The Wildlife Institute of India declared the two corridors are essential for the genetic diversity of the large cats. WWF-India called NH7 a \u201cmajor barrier for animals near the Pench Tiger Reserve\u201d in a report \u2018Lifeline for tigers.\u2019 The National Board of Wildlife did not view the proposal favourably and neither did the Forest Advisory Committee. The Central Empowered Committee of the Supreme Court called for the road to be shut down.This opposition ought to have shut the lid on the proposal.A Times of India report of 20 September 2013 describing the potholed NH7 as \u2018Highway to hell\u2019 marked a turning point. The Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court jumped in, by initiating legal proceedings based on the news report. At first, it ordered the road to be re-paved, but later demanded the highway be upgraded, without realising forest and wildlife clearances are necessary. But even after two years and numerous press reports, the court insists it has the authority to unilaterally order the road to be widened.The Ministry of Environment and Forests gave initial environmental clearance in December 2013. In February 2015, the high court and state government issued permissions to the highways authority to knock down trees over a 10-km (6-mile) stretch of NH7.However, none of the permissions, whether issued by the high court, the ministry, or the state, were legally valid since they ran afoul of the Forest Conservation Act and the Wildlife Protection Act. Instead of evaluating the merits of the case and its impact on wildlife, the wildlife board hurriedly cleared the project on 18 August. It didn\u2019t follow its own guidelines on how to deal with roads passing through protected forests. The ministry will likely push through the clearance required under the Forest Conservation Act as well. After all, it has gained a reputation among environmentalists and conservationists for cursorily approving any project that requires forests to be destroyed.The Wildlife Institute of India, which had initially objected to the road widening, changed its stand. Presumably capitulating under pressure from the ministry, high court, and/or the highways authority, it agreed that the road could be widened as long as underpasses were built to allow passage of wildlife at the cost of rupees 750 crores (\u00a373.6m).The National Highways Authority grudgingly committed to nine elevated sections along the road for the safe passage of wild animals at a cost of rupees 100 crores (\u00a39.82m). On 5 May 2015, conservation organisations filed an appeal in the National Green Tribunal challenging the permissions granted by the ministry and state. The tribunal stayed all further work on the highway.In a bizarre situation, two judicial bodies are at conflict with each other. Justice Gavai of the Bombay High Court disparaged the tribunal \u201cYou [the petitioner] chose to approach some tribunal which has been created under some Act.\u201d Justice Swatanter Kumar, the Chairperson of the National Green Tribunal, questioned how the high court could have allowed felling of trees in the absence of legal compliance. While one demanded that trees be chopped as soon as possible, the other sought assurances that not a single tree be hacked.About 49.25 hectares (121.70 acres) of forests would have to be leveled for widening NH7. That may not sound like much, but a road creates an edge along which the forest frays slowly. Safe havens for wildlife shrink as the increased disturbance from roads pushes animals farther into the interior. More traffic brings more air, noise, and light pollution in areas that need to be protected.But wildlife activists fear that a wide, divided, slick highway through some of the best forests of central India would become a death trap for wild animals. Roadkills are a major concern. For instance, highway traffic through Bandipur National Park, Karnataka, is now limited to daylight hours to reduce the mortality of wild animals. Most importantly, if the road is widened now, the highways authority might seek to make it even wider in the future.None of this anxiety is necessary because there is an alternative.The Wildlife Trust of India proposed another existing highway as a substitute to NH7 in 2009. It is a mere 70 km (43.4 miles) longer than the road cutting through tiger corridors. At that time, the highways authority quibbled that it was a state highway and cannot be upgraded to national highway. But since then, it has not only upgraded it to national highway status, but widened NH69 to a four-lane carriageway. Wildlife conservation organisations, including Bombay Natural History Society and Wildlife Institute of India, support this alternate route.NH69 cuts through good forest at Sillewani Ghat for 11 km, but wildlife activists recognise the need for road connectivity and the greater importance of leaving NH7 alone. This could be a win-win situation since NH69 has already been made. It saves the highways authority rupees 100 crore in building underpasses in Maharashtra alone. Madhya Pradesh would also have to build such structures on its side of the border at rupees 860 crores (\u00a384.4m).Almost all agencies that ought to protect wild habitats and species - the ministry, the state, wildlife institute, and the tiger authority - currently appear to support the highways authority\u2019s proposal. The case now rests with the tribunal.So what is it going to be?A 70-km detour or the future of three tiger reserves?", "tags": ["Wildlife", "Animals", "Conservation", "Endangered habitats", "India", "Environment", "Endangered species", "South and Central Asia", "Trees and forests"], "title": "India: No country for wild tigers? | Janaki Lenin"},{"date": "2015-08-03T05:49:16Z", "country": "india", "content": "Heavy monsoon rains have killed more than 100 people in India in the past week and forced tens of thousands of people to take shelter in state-run relief camps, India\u2019s home ministry has said.A cyclone struck the worst-hit state of West Bengal, where 48 people have died and nearly 215,000 villagers have been taken to relief camps after heavy rains triggered flooding, the ministry statement said.More than 200 medical teams using 120 boats have so far distributed more than 400,000 drinking water pouches in an effort to prevent the outbreak of water-borne diseases, according to authorities.Heavy rains have also caused widespread flooding in Burma, where at least 27 people have died and four areas have been declared disaster zones. The UN has warned that the situation could get much worse.Another 28 deaths were reported from Rajasthan in western India where rescue workers evacuated nearly 1,000 people to higher ground.On Saturday, at least 20 people were swept away by a landslide that flattened up to 10 homes in Jourmol, a village in north-eastern Manipur state, a spokesman for the national disaster response force said on Sunday.The annual monsoon season in India stretches from June until the end of September causing deaths and severe damage to homes and food crops.", "tags": ["India", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Monsoon rains leave 100 dead in India"},{"date": "2015-09-29T12:12:33Z", "country": "india", "content": "Last week, 63 million people were cut off from internet and mobile phone access in Gujarat, India. This didn\u2019t stop Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg and Indian prime minister Narendra Modi proclaiming over the weekend that communications access and, in particular, internet access, is the next important step in development. Modi didn\u2019t seem bothered by the fact that, following mass demonstrations, a population the size of the UK lost all phone and internet communications for the second time in less than a month. The world barely noticed.India is not alone. In Syria, the internet is used as a weapon of war \u2013 the disconnection of communications plays a central role in the conflict. In the Democratic Republic of Congo, similarly, connections were cut following mass demonstrations against the government.And before anyone suggests that only less developed countries resort to drastic disconnection, similar measures have been discussed in case of an \u201cemergency\u201d in the US, UK and Germany. The British government discussed quite extensively whether to shut down various communication channels during the 2011 riots. Pakistan bears the dubious honour of leading the world in government-ordered communications shutdowns, with at least 24 large-scale disconnections since 2012\u00ad. Marked like few other nations by the global war on terror, even the highest ranks of government in Pakistan complain about the overwhelming power of the military. National security measures frequently go overboard, and the human rights of the populations affected are only insufficiently considered.Some 80% of people in Pakistan have mobile phone access. One in four holds a smartphone. When communications are disconnected, the economy is seriously affected, and mobility and social relations are severed. Neither ambulances nor fire departments can be contacted quickly. Despite the impressive resilience of the Pakistani people, the social consequences cannot be overlooked.A new research study between London, Islamabad and Berlin found that, when communications are disconnected, the same regions already affected by other forms of exclusion are the worst hit. Large political rallies, but also regions seen as leaning towards the Taliban, are the most frequently affected by shutdowns in Pakistan. Since society constitutes through communication, for these communities, prevention of communication also constitutes exclusion from society. This logic extends to the waves of refugees moving across Europe. The issue here is that people don\u2019t just need the internet to \u201cphone home\u201d \u2013 they need access to become part of European society. The internet is used to access education, entertainment and culture. It grounds social participation, and is the mechanism for accessing many key services. In the current crisis, the physical separation of refugees is augmented by digital separation.\u201cAll the internet. All the people. All the time.\u201d Nigerian web activist Nnenna Nwakanma\u2019s call to action is simple to state, but hard to accomplish. Every crisis offers a new excuse for restrictions, and every \u201cdevelopment problem\u201d invites post-colonial reflex. Take Internet.org, the initiative proudly championed by Facebook and partners. Facebook\u2019s offer \u2013 recently partly rebranded Free Basics, in an effort to take the sting out of controversy about walled gardens, privacy and security \u2013 has more to do with access to Facebook than to the internet, and is a clever advertising campaign for Facebook\u2019s rollout in emerging markets. But we\u2019ve yet to see any serious attempt, notwithstanding Zuckerberg\u2019s weekend celebrity appeal with Bono, to resolving deep challenges of universal access.Given this landscape, we shouldn\u2019t be surprised that we have left governments and corporations with the power to completely turn off the internet. Without the protection that accompanies the creation of public services \u2013 such as electricity or water \u00ad\u2013 access to the internet and telecommunications are in discretionary hands. This gives both Modi and Zuckerberg the ability to flip the switch. Rather than providing all the internet to all the people all the time, we\u2019re allowing a few powerful men to make the internet a commodity of their choosing. ", "tags": ["Facebook", "Internet", "Technology", "Social networking", "India", "Pakistan"], "title": "Internet access matters \u00ad\u00ad\u2013 will Facebook or India provide it?"},{"date": "2015-09-21T08:54:28Z", "country": "india", "content": "A man in India has died after being buried alive by workers who did not see him lying unconscious at the bottom of a pothole.Officials in Katni, in the central state of Madhya Pradesh, are investigating the incident and have promised compensation to his widow.The 45-year-old man, named as Latori Barman, was walking home from a fair when he fell into a large hole in the road, Indian media reported. \u201cIt was dark and there were no warning signs. He would have been walking in an inebriated condition when he fell into the pit between Udlana and Hata villages and lost consciousness. Workers must not have noticed him while filling the pothole with bitumen,\u201d an investigating officer told the Times of India. The newspaper added that the workers then used a heavy roller to flatten the surface. The accident \u201cwould have gone unnoticed had residents not discovered the man\u2019s arm sticking out from the tarred road\u201d, the paper said.Police have arrested several road workers.The death is the latest linked to India\u2019s potholes, also called \u201ckiller craters\u201d. A woman in her 20s died in the city of Bengaluru last week after the motorbike on which she was riding crashed, reportedly because of a pothole.In one Indian city, residents resorted to naming individual holes after prominent officials to draw attention to the poor road conditions.About 150,000 people die on Indian roads each year, with hundreds of thousands injured, often seriously. Most deaths are caused by poor driving, official statistics show.", "tags": ["India", "South and Central Asia", "World news"], "title": "Man dies after being buried in pothole in India"},{"date": "2015-09-27T12:28:56Z", "country": "india", "content": "India is to launch a mini Hubble-type space observatory, a major step forward for the emerging power\u2019s increasingly capable space programme.Last year, the south Asian nation became the first country to launch a successful Mars orbital mission on its first attempt. At \u00a350m, the robotic probe, which is still circling the red planet, cost a fraction of earlier similar missions by the US, Russia and European countries.The new observatory, dubbed the AstroSat, is due to be launched from the country\u2019s main space centre at Sriharikota in southern India on Monday. If it is successful, India will be the first state in the developing world to have placed its own telescope in space.\u201cThis is the first time we are launching a dedicated astronomy mission,\u201d said K Suryanarayana Sarma, project director of AstroSat at the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO). Related: India's Mars satellite successfully enters orbit, bringing country into space elite  \u201cThis is a unique mission because \u2026 we have a very wide band of astronomical observation with sophisticated instruments with good resolution and specifications,\u201d Sarma said. First conceived in 1996, the project was given the green light in 2004. It is believed to have cost about \u00a335m. One of the reasons for the decade-long delay is the complexities of one specific instrument, a telescope using x-rays that has 320 aluminium mirrors that need to be positioned with extreme accuracy. The instrument was developed in collaboration with the University of Leicester in the UK. Some commentators have questioned comparisons with the Hubble, launched by Nasa in 1990, which has become known for spectacular photographs of events in deep space. \u201cCalling [the] AstroSat \u2018India\u2019s Hubble\u2019 will imply that ISRO has reached that level of engineering capability when it has not. And making that reference repeatedly will only foster complacency about defining the scale and scope of future missions,\u201d wrote Vasudevan Mukunth, on Indian news website The Wire last week.  As well as being 10 times smaller than the Hubble, the AstroSat has a more limited lifespan of five years. This has however some advantages.\u201cWe intend a mission life of five years for the AstroSat. So the question of repairs, like the ones done by astronauts on the Hubble, doesn\u2019t arise,\u201d said Deviprasad Karnik, an ISRO spokesman. Indian scientists say their observatory has an unprecedented array of telescopes that will allow simultaneous data collection through different means. The mission will also be the first time the country will launch US satellites. The launch comes on the day Narendra Modi, the prime minister, is due to meet Barack Obama during a trip to the US. The successful launch of India\u2019s Mars orbiter last year came just days before Modi travelled to the US on his first trip after a landslide electoral victory. It led TV bulletins and filled front pages. The project aims to study the surface and mineral composition of Mars, and scan its atmosphere for methane, a chemical strongly tied to life on Earth. Modi wants to establish India as a bigger player in the \u00a3200bn space technology market, against stiff competition from neighbouring China with its bigger launchers. The Indian prime minister toured Silicon Valley this weekend, meeting CEOs of major tech firms and addressing a rally of Indian Americans in a bid to promote India as a nation of technological innovation and capabilities. \u201cWe have never launched an American satellite [before] \u2026 Politically and scientifically, India launching four American satellites marks the biggest step yet in Indo-US space collaboration,\u201d said Srinivas Laxman, a space science expert. Preparations to put an Indian in space are under way though there has been \u201cno approval from the government for the mission itself\u201d, said Karnik.  \u201cWe are preparing the physical technology. [A] man in space mission is not on the agenda at the moment,\u201d he added.", "tags": ["India", "Space", "Astronomy", "Hubble space telescope", "Science", "US news"], "title": "India to launch country's first space observatory"},{"date": "2015-08-31T03:39:52Z", "country": "india", "content": "If the tigers of Panna are under threat of being displaced by a dam, the tigers of nearby Kanha, Pench, and Navegaon Nagzira tiger reserves in the two central Indian states of Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra are in danger from a highway.The National Highways Authority of India proposes to widen a 50-km (31-mile) stretch of road to a four-lane divided highway connecting Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh, with Nagpur, Maharashtra. While allowing humans to hurtle between these two cities, the road slices two tiger corridors: Pench-Nagzira corridor in Maharashtra and the Pench-Kanha corridor in Madhya Pradesh. Although National Highway 7 (NH7) exists already, widening it will aggravate the problem it poses to wildlife. Central Indian forests hold about 33% of India\u2019s tigers, 688 of them.According to the National Tiger Conservation Authority, a tiger population needs at least 80 to 100 adults to be self-sustaining. None of the tiger reserves in central India host a viable tiger population independently. Corridors are essential for these reserves to sustain tigers and other wild animals. For example, the lack of corridors caused a native population of gaur to go extinct in Bandhavgarh National Park in 1997.Camera trapping, genetic analysis, and radio telemetry studies show these corridors are active animal routes. Tigers are not the only ones using them; gaur, leopards, sloth bears, and wild dogs are some of the other large mammals that disperse along these paths. The National Tiger Conservation Authority said widening the road would cause irreparable damage to tiger habitat and turned down the proposal.The Wildlife Institute of India declared the two corridors are essential for the genetic diversity of the large cats. WWF-India called NH7 a \u201cmajor barrier for animals near the Pench Tiger Reserve\u201d in a report \u2018Lifeline for tigers.\u2019 The National Board of Wildlife did not view the proposal favourably and neither did the Forest Advisory Committee. The Central Empowered Committee of the Supreme Court called for the road to be shut down.This opposition ought to have shut the lid on the proposal.A Times of India report of 20 September 2013 describing the potholed NH7 as \u2018Highway to hell\u2019 marked a turning point. The Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court jumped in, by initiating legal proceedings based on the news report. At first, it ordered the road to be re-paved, but later demanded the highway be upgraded, without realising forest and wildlife clearances are necessary. But even after two years and numerous press reports, the court insists it has the authority to unilaterally order the road to be widened.The Ministry of Environment and Forests gave initial environmental clearance in December 2013. In February 2015, the high court and state government issued permissions to the highways authority to knock down trees over a 10-km (6-mile) stretch of NH7.However, none of the permissions, whether issued by the high court, the ministry, or the state, were legally valid since they ran afoul of the Forest Conservation Act and the Wildlife Protection Act. Instead of evaluating the merits of the case and its impact on wildlife, the wildlife board hurriedly cleared the project on 18 August. It didn\u2019t follow its own guidelines on how to deal with roads passing through protected forests. The ministry will likely push through the clearance required under the Forest Conservation Act as well. After all, it has gained a reputation among environmentalists and conservationists for cursorily approving any project that requires forests to be destroyed.The Wildlife Institute of India, which had initially objected to the road widening, changed its stand. Presumably capitulating under pressure from the ministry, high court, and/or the highways authority, it agreed that the road could be widened as long as underpasses were built to allow passage of wildlife at the cost of rupees 750 crores (\u00a373.6m).The National Highways Authority grudgingly committed to nine elevated sections along the road for the safe passage of wild animals at a cost of rupees 100 crores (\u00a39.82m). On 5 May 2015, conservation organisations filed an appeal in the National Green Tribunal challenging the permissions granted by the ministry and state. The tribunal stayed all further work on the highway.In a bizarre situation, two judicial bodies are at conflict with each other. Justice Gavai of the Bombay High Court disparaged the tribunal \u201cYou [the petitioner] chose to approach some tribunal which has been created under some Act.\u201d Justice Swatanter Kumar, the Chairperson of the National Green Tribunal, questioned how the high court could have allowed felling of trees in the absence of legal compliance. While one demanded that trees be chopped as soon as possible, the other sought assurances that not a single tree be hacked.About 49.25 hectares (121.70 acres) of forests would have to be leveled for widening NH7. That may not sound like much, but a road creates an edge along which the forest frays slowly. Safe havens for wildlife shrink as the increased disturbance from roads pushes animals farther into the interior. More traffic brings more air, noise, and light pollution in areas that need to be protected.But wildlife activists fear that a wide, divided, slick highway through some of the best forests of central India would become a death trap for wild animals. Roadkills are a major concern. For instance, highway traffic through Bandipur National Park, Karnataka, is now limited to daylight hours to reduce the mortality of wild animals. Most importantly, if the road is widened now, the highways authority might seek to make it even wider in the future.None of this anxiety is necessary because there is an alternative.The Wildlife Trust of India proposed another existing highway as a substitute to NH7 in 2009. It is a mere 70 km (43.4 miles) longer than the road cutting through tiger corridors. At that time, the highways authority quibbled that it was a state highway and cannot be upgraded to national highway. But since then, it has not only upgraded it to national highway status, but widened NH69 to a four-lane carriageway. Wildlife conservation organisations, including Bombay Natural History Society and Wildlife Institute of India, support this alternate route.NH69 cuts through good forest at Sillewani Ghat for 11 km, but wildlife activists recognise the need for road connectivity and the greater importance of leaving NH7 alone. This could be a win-win situation since NH69 has already been made. It saves the highways authority rupees 100 crore in building underpasses in Maharashtra alone. Madhya Pradesh would also have to build such structures on its side of the border at rupees 860 crores (\u00a384.4m).Almost all agencies that ought to protect wild habitats and species - the ministry, the state, wildlife institute, and the tiger authority - currently appear to support the highways authority\u2019s proposal. The case now rests with the tribunal.So what is it going to be?A 70-km detour or the future of three tiger reserves?", "tags": ["Wildlife", "Animals", "Conservation", "Endangered habitats", "India", "Environment", "Endangered species", "South and Central Asia", "Trees and forests"], "title": "India: No country for wild tigers? | Janaki Lenin"},{"date": "2015-08-03T05:49:16Z", "country": "india", "content": "Heavy monsoon rains have killed more than 100 people in India in the past week and forced tens of thousands of people to take shelter in state-run relief camps, India\u2019s home ministry has said.A cyclone struck the worst-hit state of West Bengal, where 48 people have died and nearly 215,000 villagers have been taken to relief camps after heavy rains triggered flooding, the ministry statement said.More than 200 medical teams using 120 boats have so far distributed more than 400,000 drinking water pouches in an effort to prevent the outbreak of water-borne diseases, according to authorities.Heavy rains have also caused widespread flooding in Burma, where at least 27 people have died and four areas have been declared disaster zones. The UN has warned that the situation could get much worse.Another 28 deaths were reported from Rajasthan in western India where rescue workers evacuated nearly 1,000 people to higher ground.On Saturday, at least 20 people were swept away by a landslide that flattened up to 10 homes in Jourmol, a village in north-eastern Manipur state, a spokesman for the national disaster response force said on Sunday.The annual monsoon season in India stretches from June until the end of September causing deaths and severe damage to homes and food crops.", "tags": ["India", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Monsoon rains leave 100 dead in India"},{"date": "2015-09-29T12:12:33Z", "country": "india", "content": "Last week, 63 million people were cut off from internet and mobile phone access in Gujarat, India. This didn\u2019t stop Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg and Indian prime minister Narendra Modi proclaiming over the weekend that communications access and, in particular, internet access, is the next important step in development. Modi didn\u2019t seem bothered by the fact that, following mass demonstrations, a population the size of the UK lost all phone and internet communications for the second time in less than a month. The world barely noticed.India is not alone. In Syria, the internet is used as a weapon of war \u2013 the disconnection of communications plays a central role in the conflict. In the Democratic Republic of Congo, similarly, connections were cut following mass demonstrations against the government.And before anyone suggests that only less developed countries resort to drastic disconnection, similar measures have been discussed in case of an \u201cemergency\u201d in the US, UK and Germany. The British government discussed quite extensively whether to shut down various communication channels during the 2011 riots. Pakistan bears the dubious honour of leading the world in government-ordered communications shutdowns, with at least 24 large-scale disconnections since 2012\u00ad. Marked like few other nations by the global war on terror, even the highest ranks of government in Pakistan complain about the overwhelming power of the military. National security measures frequently go overboard, and the human rights of the populations affected are only insufficiently considered.Some 80% of people in Pakistan have mobile phone access. One in four holds a smartphone. When communications are disconnected, the economy is seriously affected, and mobility and social relations are severed. Neither ambulances nor fire departments can be contacted quickly. Despite the impressive resilience of the Pakistani people, the social consequences cannot be overlooked.A new research study between London, Islamabad and Berlin found that, when communications are disconnected, the same regions already affected by other forms of exclusion are the worst hit. Large political rallies, but also regions seen as leaning towards the Taliban, are the most frequently affected by shutdowns in Pakistan. Since society constitutes through communication, for these communities, prevention of communication also constitutes exclusion from society. This logic extends to the waves of refugees moving across Europe. The issue here is that people don\u2019t just need the internet to \u201cphone home\u201d \u2013 they need access to become part of European society. The internet is used to access education, entertainment and culture. It grounds social participation, and is the mechanism for accessing many key services. In the current crisis, the physical separation of refugees is augmented by digital separation.\u201cAll the internet. All the people. All the time.\u201d Nigerian web activist Nnenna Nwakanma\u2019s call to action is simple to state, but hard to accomplish. Every crisis offers a new excuse for restrictions, and every \u201cdevelopment problem\u201d invites post-colonial reflex. Take Internet.org, the initiative proudly championed by Facebook and partners. Facebook\u2019s offer \u2013 recently partly rebranded Free Basics, in an effort to take the sting out of controversy about walled gardens, privacy and security \u2013 has more to do with access to Facebook than to the internet, and is a clever advertising campaign for Facebook\u2019s rollout in emerging markets. But we\u2019ve yet to see any serious attempt, notwithstanding Zuckerberg\u2019s weekend celebrity appeal with Bono, to resolving deep challenges of universal access.Given this landscape, we shouldn\u2019t be surprised that we have left governments and corporations with the power to completely turn off the internet. Without the protection that accompanies the creation of public services \u2013 such as electricity or water \u00ad\u2013 access to the internet and telecommunications are in discretionary hands. This gives both Modi and Zuckerberg the ability to flip the switch. Rather than providing all the internet to all the people all the time, we\u2019re allowing a few powerful men to make the internet a commodity of their choosing. ", "tags": ["Facebook", "Internet", "Technology", "Social networking", "India", "Pakistan"], "title": "Internet access matters \u00ad\u00ad\u2013 will Facebook or India provide it?"},{"date": "2015-09-21T08:54:28Z", "country": "india", "content": "A man in India has died after being buried alive by workers who did not see him lying unconscious at the bottom of a pothole.Officials in Katni, in the central state of Madhya Pradesh, are investigating the incident and have promised compensation to his widow.The 45-year-old man, named as Latori Barman, was walking home from a fair when he fell into a large hole in the road, Indian media reported. \u201cIt was dark and there were no warning signs. He would have been walking in an inebriated condition when he fell into the pit between Udlana and Hata villages and lost consciousness. Workers must not have noticed him while filling the pothole with bitumen,\u201d an investigating officer told the Times of India. The newspaper added that the workers then used a heavy roller to flatten the surface. The accident \u201cwould have gone unnoticed had residents not discovered the man\u2019s arm sticking out from the tarred road\u201d, the paper said.Police have arrested several road workers.The death is the latest linked to India\u2019s potholes, also called \u201ckiller craters\u201d. A woman in her 20s died in the city of Bengaluru last week after the motorbike on which she was riding crashed, reportedly because of a pothole.In one Indian city, residents resorted to naming individual holes after prominent officials to draw attention to the poor road conditions.About 150,000 people die on Indian roads each year, with hundreds of thousands injured, often seriously. Most deaths are caused by poor driving, official statistics show.", "tags": ["India", "South and Central Asia", "World news"], "title": "Man dies after being buried in pothole in India"},{"date": "2015-09-20T14:04:13Z", "country": "india", "content": "The four helicopters trailing giant flags had passed an hour earlier; the tanks and fighter jets would come later. Now, it was the turn of a formation of sword-wielding, stamping, infantry in golden turbans to entertain the crowd packed into the grandstands halfway between the stately India Gate and the vast presidential palace in Delhi\u2019s centre.The Verma family \u2013 mother, father, son and daughter \u2013 had come from the eastern outskirts of the Indian capital to watch the show. \u201cIt was necessary to come. I am a proud Indian ... we have to remember our victories, our sacrifices. We have to remember what we can do, and what can be done. This will frighten some people and that is a good thing,\u201d said Priyaranjan Verma, 43, a finance manager for a freight firm.The \u201csome people\u201d he was referring to were the 190 million or so inhabitants of Pakistan, or at least their rulers.Sunday\u2019s parade marked the climax of a month of events in India commemorating the golden anniversary of the 1965 war with the neighbouring country. The partition of India had occurred 18 years before 1965, when the country gained independence from Britain. Pakistan and India have each claimed victory in the inconclusive 60s conflict, one of four they have fought. But over the decades both nations appear largely to have forgotten this war, with history books focusing on the more dramatic clashes of 1947, 1971 and 1999.It surprised some onlookers then when the government of Narendra Modi, the Hindu nationalist politician who won a landslide election last year after promising to bring economic development and make India \u201crespected\u201d, ordered a high-profile, month-long celebration of his nation\u2019s \u201cvictory\u201d in the 1965 war. The event is reported to have cost more than \u00a33m, and has included military displays in provincial towns, giant newspaper adverts, commemorative coins and stamps, as well as a team of naval personnel motorbiking 1,200 miles across India.Modi opened an exhibition in central Delhi devoted to the war, commenting that \u201cthe valour [and] sacrifice of our armed forces during the 1965 war remains etched in the memory of every Indian\u201d.The 60s conflict started when Pakistan fomented violence in the disputed Himalayan former princedom of Kashmir and ended with a UN-sponsored ceasefire followed by an exchange of captured territory. The war entailed fierce fighting, particularly between tank units, and it is thought both sides suffered more than 3,000 casualties.At the opening ceremony, Manohar Parrikar, India\u2019s defence minister, said the exhibition commemorated \u201cthe first major war that India won\u201d. He added: \u201cSome people raise the question whether India won, or was there a stalemate? Even as a nine-year-old kid I was of the firm opinion that India won hands down.\u201dSome historians\u2019 opinions differ. \u201cIt was inconclusive and that is recognised \u2026 even by those involved in the conflict. We actually gave up what little territory we seized and by no yardstick can it be claimed a victory,\u201d said Pallavi Raghavan, a specialist in relations between India and Pakistan, working at the Centre for Policy Research, in Delhi.However Dilip Hiro, a journalist and analyst, wrote in a recently published account of relations between India and Pakistan that \u201c[India] won by not losing \u2026 [Pakistan] gained nothing from a war it initiated\u201d.The war fought between the two states in 1971, however, was a conclusive defeat for Pakistan. A tentative peace process which followed a further confrontation in 1999 has been frozen since an attack in Mumbai by Pakistan-based militants in 2008. The attack in Mumbai, India\u2019s commercial capital, targeted luxury hotels, commuters, a Jewish centre and tourist sites. There have been several intensive exchanges of artillery fire in the past year, while India continues to blame Pakistan for unrest in Kashmir.Pakistan reacted to the celebrations in India by upgrading its own annual Defence Day, which traditionally marks the 1965 war. Normally a relatively low-key affair, the ceremony held on 6 September was transformed into a big television event, with parachute drops by special forces, air displays and exhibitions of military hardware at various sites around the country.At the main ceremony, at army headquarters in Rawalpindi, the army screened video re-enactments of key battles against Islamist militants.Pakistan\u2019s powerful army chief, Raheel Sharif, used the occasion to deliver a sharp warning to India that it would \u201cpay an unbearable cost\u201d if it ever resorted \u201cto any misadventure\u201d. He added: \u201cThe armed forces of Pakistan are fully capable of dealing with all types of internal and external threats, may it be conventional or sub-conventional, whether it is cold start or hot start. We are ready.\u201dHis speech was a riposte to the remarks of his opposite number, the general Dalbir Singh Suhag, who said India was ready for the \u201cswift, short, nature of future wars\u201d.India\u2019s army has long been planning for a \u201ccold start\u201d in any possible confrontation with Pakistan, which would allow it to quickly retaliate, fielding military units with little preparation and thus countering its smaller neighbour\u2019s ability to concentrate forces more rapidly.Sharif also struck a hard line on Kashmir, saying it could \u201cno longer be put on the back burner\u201d, although few foreign policy experts think Pakistan will ever gain control of the whole region.Amid the army\u2019s publicity drive there were signs of a surge of patriotism, even bellicosity, among sections of the public. A newspaper account of a lecture at Karachi University, at which the historian Akbar Zaidi questioned the popular narrative that Pakistan won the 1965 conflict, provoked a storm of anger on social media, with many alleging the newspaper was in the pocket of India.\u201cWith the celebration of the victory in the 1965 war round the corner, there can be no bigger lie [than] that Pakistan won the war,\u201d he was reported to have said. \u201cWe lost terribly in the 1965 war.\u201dRaghavan, the Indian historian, said the focus on conflicts ignored the long history of dialogue and exchange between the two nations. \u201cThe warfare has always been contained, never all-out. Each time there is an episode of violence it is followed by an episode of engagement. There is always much good will on both sides and the reasons for that are as durable as the reasons for going to war.\u201dThe sentiment was not universally shared at the parade ground in Delhi.\u201cThese are bad people but we are not frightened of them. Why should we be when we always win?\u201d said Verma, as he quickened his pace to avoid missing the motorbike display team.", "tags": ["India", "Pakistan", "South and Central Asia", "World news"], "title": "India and Pakistan loudly commemorate the war they both 'won '"},{"date": "2015-09-27T12:28:56Z", "country": "india", "content": "India is to launch a mini Hubble-type space observatory, a major step forward for the emerging power\u2019s increasingly capable space programme.Last year, the south Asian nation became the first country to launch a successful Mars orbital mission on its first attempt. At \u00a350m, the robotic probe, which is still circling the red planet, cost a fraction of earlier similar missions by the US, Russia and European countries.The new observatory, dubbed the AstroSat, is due to be launched from the country\u2019s main space centre at Sriharikota in southern India on Monday. If it is successful, India will be the first state in the developing world to have placed its own telescope in space.\u201cThis is the first time we are launching a dedicated astronomy mission,\u201d said K Suryanarayana Sarma, project director of AstroSat at the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO). Related: India's Mars satellite successfully enters orbit, bringing country into space elite  \u201cThis is a unique mission because \u2026 we have a very wide band of astronomical observation with sophisticated instruments with good resolution and specifications,\u201d Sarma said. First conceived in 1996, the project was given the green light in 2004. It is believed to have cost about \u00a335m. One of the reasons for the decade-long delay is the complexities of one specific instrument, a telescope using x-rays that has 320 aluminium mirrors that need to be positioned with extreme accuracy. The instrument was developed in collaboration with the University of Leicester in the UK. Some commentators have questioned comparisons with the Hubble, launched by Nasa in 1990, which has become known for spectacular photographs of events in deep space. \u201cCalling [the] AstroSat \u2018India\u2019s Hubble\u2019 will imply that ISRO has reached that level of engineering capability when it has not. And making that reference repeatedly will only foster complacency about defining the scale and scope of future missions,\u201d wrote Vasudevan Mukunth, on Indian news website The Wire last week.  As well as being 10 times smaller than the Hubble, the AstroSat has a more limited lifespan of five years. This has however some advantages.\u201cWe intend a mission life of five years for the AstroSat. So the question of repairs, like the ones done by astronauts on the Hubble, doesn\u2019t arise,\u201d said Deviprasad Karnik, an ISRO spokesman. Indian scientists say their observatory has an unprecedented array of telescopes that will allow simultaneous data collection through different means. The mission will also be the first time the country will launch US satellites. The launch comes on the day Narendra Modi, the prime minister, is due to meet Barack Obama during a trip to the US. The successful launch of India\u2019s Mars orbiter last year came just days before Modi travelled to the US on his first trip after a landslide electoral victory. It led TV bulletins and filled front pages. The project aims to study the surface and mineral composition of Mars, and scan its atmosphere for methane, a chemical strongly tied to life on Earth. Modi wants to establish India as a bigger player in the \u00a3200bn space technology market, against stiff competition from neighbouring China with its bigger launchers. The Indian prime minister toured Silicon Valley this weekend, meeting CEOs of major tech firms and addressing a rally of Indian Americans in a bid to promote India as a nation of technological innovation and capabilities. \u201cWe have never launched an American satellite [before] \u2026 Politically and scientifically, India launching four American satellites marks the biggest step yet in Indo-US space collaboration,\u201d said Srinivas Laxman, a space science expert. Preparations to put an Indian in space are under way though there has been \u201cno approval from the government for the mission itself\u201d, said Karnik.  \u201cWe are preparing the physical technology. [A] man in space mission is not on the agenda at the moment,\u201d he added.", "tags": ["India", "Space", "Astronomy", "Hubble space telescope", "Science", "US news"], "title": "India to launch country's first space observatory"},{"date": "2015-08-31T03:39:52Z", "country": "india", "content": "If the tigers of Panna are under threat of being displaced by a dam, the tigers of nearby Kanha, Pench, and Navegaon Nagzira tiger reserves in the two central Indian states of Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra are in danger from a highway.The National Highways Authority of India proposes to widen a 50-km (31-mile) stretch of road to a four-lane divided highway connecting Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh, with Nagpur, Maharashtra. While allowing humans to hurtle between these two cities, the road slices two tiger corridors: Pench-Nagzira corridor in Maharashtra and the Pench-Kanha corridor in Madhya Pradesh. Although National Highway 7 (NH7) exists already, widening it will aggravate the problem it poses to wildlife. Central Indian forests hold about 33% of India\u2019s tigers, 688 of them.According to the National Tiger Conservation Authority, a tiger population needs at least 80 to 100 adults to be self-sustaining. None of the tiger reserves in central India host a viable tiger population independently. Corridors are essential for these reserves to sustain tigers and other wild animals. For example, the lack of corridors caused a native population of gaur to go extinct in Bandhavgarh National Park in 1997.Camera trapping, genetic analysis, and radio telemetry studies show these corridors are active animal routes. Tigers are not the only ones using them; gaur, leopards, sloth bears, and wild dogs are some of the other large mammals that disperse along these paths. The National Tiger Conservation Authority said widening the road would cause irreparable damage to tiger habitat and turned down the proposal.The Wildlife Institute of India declared the two corridors are essential for the genetic diversity of the large cats. WWF-India called NH7 a \u201cmajor barrier for animals near the Pench Tiger Reserve\u201d in a report \u2018Lifeline for tigers.\u2019 The National Board of Wildlife did not view the proposal favourably and neither did the Forest Advisory Committee. The Central Empowered Committee of the Supreme Court called for the road to be shut down.This opposition ought to have shut the lid on the proposal.A Times of India report of 20 September 2013 describing the potholed NH7 as \u2018Highway to hell\u2019 marked a turning point. The Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court jumped in, by initiating legal proceedings based on the news report. At first, it ordered the road to be re-paved, but later demanded the highway be upgraded, without realising forest and wildlife clearances are necessary. But even after two years and numerous press reports, the court insists it has the authority to unilaterally order the road to be widened.The Ministry of Environment and Forests gave initial environmental clearance in December 2013. In February 2015, the high court and state government issued permissions to the highways authority to knock down trees over a 10-km (6-mile) stretch of NH7.However, none of the permissions, whether issued by the high court, the ministry, or the state, were legally valid since they ran afoul of the Forest Conservation Act and the Wildlife Protection Act. Instead of evaluating the merits of the case and its impact on wildlife, the wildlife board hurriedly cleared the project on 18 August. It didn\u2019t follow its own guidelines on how to deal with roads passing through protected forests. The ministry will likely push through the clearance required under the Forest Conservation Act as well. After all, it has gained a reputation among environmentalists and conservationists for cursorily approving any project that requires forests to be destroyed.The Wildlife Institute of India, which had initially objected to the road widening, changed its stand. Presumably capitulating under pressure from the ministry, high court, and/or the highways authority, it agreed that the road could be widened as long as underpasses were built to allow passage of wildlife at the cost of rupees 750 crores (\u00a373.6m).The National Highways Authority grudgingly committed to nine elevated sections along the road for the safe passage of wild animals at a cost of rupees 100 crores (\u00a39.82m). On 5 May 2015, conservation organisations filed an appeal in the National Green Tribunal challenging the permissions granted by the ministry and state. The tribunal stayed all further work on the highway.In a bizarre situation, two judicial bodies are at conflict with each other. Justice Gavai of the Bombay High Court disparaged the tribunal \u201cYou [the petitioner] chose to approach some tribunal which has been created under some Act.\u201d Justice Swatanter Kumar, the Chairperson of the National Green Tribunal, questioned how the high court could have allowed felling of trees in the absence of legal compliance. While one demanded that trees be chopped as soon as possible, the other sought assurances that not a single tree be hacked.About 49.25 hectares (121.70 acres) of forests would have to be leveled for widening NH7. That may not sound like much, but a road creates an edge along which the forest frays slowly. Safe havens for wildlife shrink as the increased disturbance from roads pushes animals farther into the interior. More traffic brings more air, noise, and light pollution in areas that need to be protected.But wildlife activists fear that a wide, divided, slick highway through some of the best forests of central India would become a death trap for wild animals. Roadkills are a major concern. For instance, highway traffic through Bandipur National Park, Karnataka, is now limited to daylight hours to reduce the mortality of wild animals. Most importantly, if the road is widened now, the highways authority might seek to make it even wider in the future.None of this anxiety is necessary because there is an alternative.The Wildlife Trust of India proposed another existing highway as a substitute to NH7 in 2009. It is a mere 70 km (43.4 miles) longer than the road cutting through tiger corridors. At that time, the highways authority quibbled that it was a state highway and cannot be upgraded to national highway. But since then, it has not only upgraded it to national highway status, but widened NH69 to a four-lane carriageway. Wildlife conservation organisations, including Bombay Natural History Society and Wildlife Institute of India, support this alternate route.NH69 cuts through good forest at Sillewani Ghat for 11 km, but wildlife activists recognise the need for road connectivity and the greater importance of leaving NH7 alone. This could be a win-win situation since NH69 has already been made. It saves the highways authority rupees 100 crore in building underpasses in Maharashtra alone. Madhya Pradesh would also have to build such structures on its side of the border at rupees 860 crores (\u00a384.4m).Almost all agencies that ought to protect wild habitats and species - the ministry, the state, wildlife institute, and the tiger authority - currently appear to support the highways authority\u2019s proposal. The case now rests with the tribunal.So what is it going to be?A 70-km detour or the future of three tiger reserves?", "tags": ["Wildlife", "Animals", "Conservation", "Endangered habitats", "India", "Environment", "Endangered species", "South and Central Asia", "Trees and forests"], "title": "India: No country for wild tigers? | Janaki Lenin"},{"date": "2015-08-03T05:49:16Z", "country": "india", "content": "Heavy monsoon rains have killed more than 100 people in India in the past week and forced tens of thousands of people to take shelter in state-run relief camps, India\u2019s home ministry has said.A cyclone struck the worst-hit state of West Bengal, where 48 people have died and nearly 215,000 villagers have been taken to relief camps after heavy rains triggered flooding, the ministry statement said.More than 200 medical teams using 120 boats have so far distributed more than 400,000 drinking water pouches in an effort to prevent the outbreak of water-borne diseases, according to authorities.Heavy rains have also caused widespread flooding in Burma, where at least 27 people have died and four areas have been declared disaster zones. The UN has warned that the situation could get much worse.Another 28 deaths were reported from Rajasthan in western India where rescue workers evacuated nearly 1,000 people to higher ground.On Saturday, at least 20 people were swept away by a landslide that flattened up to 10 homes in Jourmol, a village in north-eastern Manipur state, a spokesman for the national disaster response force said on Sunday.The annual monsoon season in India stretches from June until the end of September causing deaths and severe damage to homes and food crops.", "tags": ["India", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Monsoon rains leave 100 dead in India"},{"date": "2015-09-29T12:12:33Z", "country": "india", "content": "Last week, 63 million people were cut off from internet and mobile phone access in Gujarat, India. This didn\u2019t stop Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg and Indian prime minister Narendra Modi proclaiming over the weekend that communications access and, in particular, internet access, is the next important step in development. Modi didn\u2019t seem bothered by the fact that, following mass demonstrations, a population the size of the UK lost all phone and internet communications for the second time in less than a month. The world barely noticed.India is not alone. In Syria, the internet is used as a weapon of war \u2013 the disconnection of communications plays a central role in the conflict. In the Democratic Republic of Congo, similarly, connections were cut following mass demonstrations against the government.And before anyone suggests that only less developed countries resort to drastic disconnection, similar measures have been discussed in case of an \u201cemergency\u201d in the US, UK and Germany. The British government discussed quite extensively whether to shut down various communication channels during the 2011 riots. Pakistan bears the dubious honour of leading the world in government-ordered communications shutdowns, with at least 24 large-scale disconnections since 2012\u00ad. Marked like few other nations by the global war on terror, even the highest ranks of government in Pakistan complain about the overwhelming power of the military. National security measures frequently go overboard, and the human rights of the populations affected are only insufficiently considered.Some 80% of people in Pakistan have mobile phone access. One in four holds a smartphone. When communications are disconnected, the economy is seriously affected, and mobility and social relations are severed. Neither ambulances nor fire departments can be contacted quickly. Despite the impressive resilience of the Pakistani people, the social consequences cannot be overlooked.A new research study between London, Islamabad and Berlin found that, when communications are disconnected, the same regions already affected by other forms of exclusion are the worst hit. Large political rallies, but also regions seen as leaning towards the Taliban, are the most frequently affected by shutdowns in Pakistan. Since society constitutes through communication, for these communities, prevention of communication also constitutes exclusion from society. This logic extends to the waves of refugees moving across Europe. The issue here is that people don\u2019t just need the internet to \u201cphone home\u201d \u2013 they need access to become part of European society. The internet is used to access education, entertainment and culture. It grounds social participation, and is the mechanism for accessing many key services. In the current crisis, the physical separation of refugees is augmented by digital separation.\u201cAll the internet. All the people. All the time.\u201d Nigerian web activist Nnenna Nwakanma\u2019s call to action is simple to state, but hard to accomplish. Every crisis offers a new excuse for restrictions, and every \u201cdevelopment problem\u201d invites post-colonial reflex. Take Internet.org, the initiative proudly championed by Facebook and partners. Facebook\u2019s offer \u2013 recently partly rebranded Free Basics, in an effort to take the sting out of controversy about walled gardens, privacy and security \u2013 has more to do with access to Facebook than to the internet, and is a clever advertising campaign for Facebook\u2019s rollout in emerging markets. But we\u2019ve yet to see any serious attempt, notwithstanding Zuckerberg\u2019s weekend celebrity appeal with Bono, to resolving deep challenges of universal access.Given this landscape, we shouldn\u2019t be surprised that we have left governments and corporations with the power to completely turn off the internet. Without the protection that accompanies the creation of public services \u2013 such as electricity or water \u00ad\u2013 access to the internet and telecommunications are in discretionary hands. This gives both Modi and Zuckerberg the ability to flip the switch. Rather than providing all the internet to all the people all the time, we\u2019re allowing a few powerful men to make the internet a commodity of their choosing. ", "tags": ["Facebook", "Internet", "Technology", "Social networking", "India", "Pakistan"], "title": "Internet access matters \u00ad\u00ad\u2013 will Facebook or India provide it?"},{"date": "2015-09-21T08:54:28Z", "country": "india", "content": "A man in India has died after being buried alive by workers who did not see him lying unconscious at the bottom of a pothole.Officials in Katni, in the central state of Madhya Pradesh, are investigating the incident and have promised compensation to his widow.The 45-year-old man, named as Latori Barman, was walking home from a fair when he fell into a large hole in the road, Indian media reported. \u201cIt was dark and there were no warning signs. He would have been walking in an inebriated condition when he fell into the pit between Udlana and Hata villages and lost consciousness. Workers must not have noticed him while filling the pothole with bitumen,\u201d an investigating officer told the Times of India. The newspaper added that the workers then used a heavy roller to flatten the surface. The accident \u201cwould have gone unnoticed had residents not discovered the man\u2019s arm sticking out from the tarred road\u201d, the paper said.Police have arrested several road workers.The death is the latest linked to India\u2019s potholes, also called \u201ckiller craters\u201d. A woman in her 20s died in the city of Bengaluru last week after the motorbike on which she was riding crashed, reportedly because of a pothole.In one Indian city, residents resorted to naming individual holes after prominent officials to draw attention to the poor road conditions.About 150,000 people die on Indian roads each year, with hundreds of thousands injured, often seriously. Most deaths are caused by poor driving, official statistics show.", "tags": ["India", "South and Central Asia", "World news"], "title": "Man dies after being buried in pothole in India"},{"date": "2015-09-20T14:04:13Z", "country": "india", "content": "The four helicopters trailing giant flags had passed an hour earlier; the tanks and fighter jets would come later. Now, it was the turn of a formation of sword-wielding, stamping, infantry in golden turbans to entertain the crowd packed into the grandstands halfway between the stately India Gate and the vast presidential palace in Delhi\u2019s centre.The Verma family \u2013 mother, father, son and daughter \u2013 had come from the eastern outskirts of the Indian capital to watch the show. \u201cIt was necessary to come. I am a proud Indian ... we have to remember our victories, our sacrifices. We have to remember what we can do, and what can be done. This will frighten some people and that is a good thing,\u201d said Priyaranjan Verma, 43, a finance manager for a freight firm.The \u201csome people\u201d he was referring to were the 190 million or so inhabitants of Pakistan, or at least their rulers.Sunday\u2019s parade marked the climax of a month of events in India commemorating the golden anniversary of the 1965 war with the neighbouring country. The partition of India had occurred 18 years before 1965, when the country gained independence from Britain. Pakistan and India have each claimed victory in the inconclusive 60s conflict, one of four they have fought. But over the decades both nations appear largely to have forgotten this war, with history books focusing on the more dramatic clashes of 1947, 1971 and 1999.It surprised some onlookers then when the government of Narendra Modi, the Hindu nationalist politician who won a landslide election last year after promising to bring economic development and make India \u201crespected\u201d, ordered a high-profile, month-long celebration of his nation\u2019s \u201cvictory\u201d in the 1965 war. The event is reported to have cost more than \u00a33m, and has included military displays in provincial towns, giant newspaper adverts, commemorative coins and stamps, as well as a team of naval personnel motorbiking 1,200 miles across India.Modi opened an exhibition in central Delhi devoted to the war, commenting that \u201cthe valour [and] sacrifice of our armed forces during the 1965 war remains etched in the memory of every Indian\u201d.The 60s conflict started when Pakistan fomented violence in the disputed Himalayan former princedom of Kashmir and ended with a UN-sponsored ceasefire followed by an exchange of captured territory. The war entailed fierce fighting, particularly between tank units, and it is thought both sides suffered more than 3,000 casualties.At the opening ceremony, Manohar Parrikar, India\u2019s defence minister, said the exhibition commemorated \u201cthe first major war that India won\u201d. He added: \u201cSome people raise the question whether India won, or was there a stalemate? Even as a nine-year-old kid I was of the firm opinion that India won hands down.\u201dSome historians\u2019 opinions differ. \u201cIt was inconclusive and that is recognised \u2026 even by those involved in the conflict. We actually gave up what little territory we seized and by no yardstick can it be claimed a victory,\u201d said Pallavi Raghavan, a specialist in relations between India and Pakistan, working at the Centre for Policy Research, in Delhi.However Dilip Hiro, a journalist and analyst, wrote in a recently published account of relations between India and Pakistan that \u201c[India] won by not losing \u2026 [Pakistan] gained nothing from a war it initiated\u201d.The war fought between the two states in 1971, however, was a conclusive defeat for Pakistan. A tentative peace process which followed a further confrontation in 1999 has been frozen since an attack in Mumbai by Pakistan-based militants in 2008. The attack in Mumbai, India\u2019s commercial capital, targeted luxury hotels, commuters, a Jewish centre and tourist sites. There have been several intensive exchanges of artillery fire in the past year, while India continues to blame Pakistan for unrest in Kashmir.Pakistan reacted to the celebrations in India by upgrading its own annual Defence Day, which traditionally marks the 1965 war. Normally a relatively low-key affair, the ceremony held on 6 September was transformed into a big television event, with parachute drops by special forces, air displays and exhibitions of military hardware at various sites around the country.At the main ceremony, at army headquarters in Rawalpindi, the army screened video re-enactments of key battles against Islamist militants.Pakistan\u2019s powerful army chief, Raheel Sharif, used the occasion to deliver a sharp warning to India that it would \u201cpay an unbearable cost\u201d if it ever resorted \u201cto any misadventure\u201d. He added: \u201cThe armed forces of Pakistan are fully capable of dealing with all types of internal and external threats, may it be conventional or sub-conventional, whether it is cold start or hot start. We are ready.\u201dHis speech was a riposte to the remarks of his opposite number, the general Dalbir Singh Suhag, who said India was ready for the \u201cswift, short, nature of future wars\u201d.India\u2019s army has long been planning for a \u201ccold start\u201d in any possible confrontation with Pakistan, which would allow it to quickly retaliate, fielding military units with little preparation and thus countering its smaller neighbour\u2019s ability to concentrate forces more rapidly.Sharif also struck a hard line on Kashmir, saying it could \u201cno longer be put on the back burner\u201d, although few foreign policy experts think Pakistan will ever gain control of the whole region.Amid the army\u2019s publicity drive there were signs of a surge of patriotism, even bellicosity, among sections of the public. A newspaper account of a lecture at Karachi University, at which the historian Akbar Zaidi questioned the popular narrative that Pakistan won the 1965 conflict, provoked a storm of anger on social media, with many alleging the newspaper was in the pocket of India.\u201cWith the celebration of the victory in the 1965 war round the corner, there can be no bigger lie [than] that Pakistan won the war,\u201d he was reported to have said. \u201cWe lost terribly in the 1965 war.\u201dRaghavan, the Indian historian, said the focus on conflicts ignored the long history of dialogue and exchange between the two nations. \u201cThe warfare has always been contained, never all-out. Each time there is an episode of violence it is followed by an episode of engagement. There is always much good will on both sides and the reasons for that are as durable as the reasons for going to war.\u201dThe sentiment was not universally shared at the parade ground in Delhi.\u201cThese are bad people but we are not frightened of them. Why should we be when we always win?\u201d said Verma, as he quickened his pace to avoid missing the motorbike display team.", "tags": ["India", "Pakistan", "South and Central Asia", "World news"], "title": "India and Pakistan loudly commemorate the war they both 'won '"},{"date": "2015-09-17T21:13:45Z", "country": "india", "content": "Nebraska\u2019s attempt to import from India a drug needed to carry out executions months after the state legislature banned capital punishment in the state failed last month because of mishandled paperwork, according to BuzzFeed News. The news site acquired documents that said a shipment of sodium thiopental from India never left the country for Nebraska because of \u201cimproper or missing paperwork\u201d. The drug import is not approved by the Food and Drug Administration, which has warned the state that the order is illegal.Last month, the ACLU of Nebraska asked the US Attorney\u2019s office to investigate the state\u2019s \u201congoing efforts to obtain lethal injection drugs from a foreign source\u201d.Before Nebraska lawmakers voted to repeal the death penalty, state officials said in May that two of the three drugs needed to carry out lethal injections had been ordered. The state already possesses the third. Nebraska abolished the death penalty in May, after lawmakers overrode the governor\u2019s veto of a bill supported by a majority of legislators. As lawmakers pushed for an end to capital punishment, KETV NewsWatch 7 reported that Nebraska paid Harris Pharma $51,000 for the two drugs: sodium thiopental and pancuronium bromide.Nebraska Correctional Services spokesperson James Foster confirmed to Buzzfeed that the state had not been sent the drug but did not know why. FedEx said that the package was returned to the sender because the paperwork in India was incorrect. Foster did not respond to a query from The Guardian about why it was trying to important the drug. In June, the FDA sent a similar warning to Ohio, which had sought to import sodium thiopental into the United States. US states with capitol punishment have faced increasing difficulty obtaining drugs for use in execution since a boycott by European-based manufacturers. Some have turned to specialty compounding pharmacies, whose identities are kept secret by state laws. Others have sought to return to earlier methods of execution: the electric chair in Tennessee, and the firing squad in Utah.Nebraska is the first predominantly Republican state to end capital punishment since the 1970s. Death penalty supporters are pushing for a referendum on the bill to be included on the November 2016 ballot. ", "tags": ["Nebraska", "Capital punishment", "US news", "Ohio"], "title": "Nebraska\u2019s attempt to import lethal injection drugs from India failed"},{"date": "2015-09-27T12:28:56Z", "country": "india", "content": "India is to launch a mini Hubble-type space observatory, a major step forward for the emerging power\u2019s increasingly capable space programme.Last year, the south Asian nation became the first country to launch a successful Mars orbital mission on its first attempt. At \u00a350m, the robotic probe, which is still circling the red planet, cost a fraction of earlier similar missions by the US, Russia and European countries.The new observatory, dubbed the AstroSat, is due to be launched from the country\u2019s main space centre at Sriharikota in southern India on Monday. If it is successful, India will be the first state in the developing world to have placed its own telescope in space.\u201cThis is the first time we are launching a dedicated astronomy mission,\u201d said K Suryanarayana Sarma, project director of AstroSat at the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO). Related: India's Mars satellite successfully enters orbit, bringing country into space elite  \u201cThis is a unique mission because \u2026 we have a very wide band of astronomical observation with sophisticated instruments with good resolution and specifications,\u201d Sarma said. First conceived in 1996, the project was given the green light in 2004. It is believed to have cost about \u00a335m. One of the reasons for the decade-long delay is the complexities of one specific instrument, a telescope using x-rays that has 320 aluminium mirrors that need to be positioned with extreme accuracy. The instrument was developed in collaboration with the University of Leicester in the UK. Some commentators have questioned comparisons with the Hubble, launched by Nasa in 1990, which has become known for spectacular photographs of events in deep space. \u201cCalling [the] AstroSat \u2018India\u2019s Hubble\u2019 will imply that ISRO has reached that level of engineering capability when it has not. And making that reference repeatedly will only foster complacency about defining the scale and scope of future missions,\u201d wrote Vasudevan Mukunth, on Indian news website The Wire last week.  As well as being 10 times smaller than the Hubble, the AstroSat has a more limited lifespan of five years. This has however some advantages.\u201cWe intend a mission life of five years for the AstroSat. So the question of repairs, like the ones done by astronauts on the Hubble, doesn\u2019t arise,\u201d said Deviprasad Karnik, an ISRO spokesman. Indian scientists say their observatory has an unprecedented array of telescopes that will allow simultaneous data collection through different means. The mission will also be the first time the country will launch US satellites. The launch comes on the day Narendra Modi, the prime minister, is due to meet Barack Obama during a trip to the US. The successful launch of India\u2019s Mars orbiter last year came just days before Modi travelled to the US on his first trip after a landslide electoral victory. It led TV bulletins and filled front pages. The project aims to study the surface and mineral composition of Mars, and scan its atmosphere for methane, a chemical strongly tied to life on Earth. Modi wants to establish India as a bigger player in the \u00a3200bn space technology market, against stiff competition from neighbouring China with its bigger launchers. The Indian prime minister toured Silicon Valley this weekend, meeting CEOs of major tech firms and addressing a rally of Indian Americans in a bid to promote India as a nation of technological innovation and capabilities. \u201cWe have never launched an American satellite [before] \u2026 Politically and scientifically, India launching four American satellites marks the biggest step yet in Indo-US space collaboration,\u201d said Srinivas Laxman, a space science expert. Preparations to put an Indian in space are under way though there has been \u201cno approval from the government for the mission itself\u201d, said Karnik.  \u201cWe are preparing the physical technology. [A] man in space mission is not on the agenda at the moment,\u201d he added.", "tags": ["India", "Space", "Astronomy", "Hubble space telescope", "Science", "US news"], "title": "India to launch country's first space observatory"},{"date": "2015-08-31T03:39:52Z", "country": "india", "content": "If the tigers of Panna are under threat of being displaced by a dam, the tigers of nearby Kanha, Pench, and Navegaon Nagzira tiger reserves in the two central Indian states of Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra are in danger from a highway.The National Highways Authority of India proposes to widen a 50-km (31-mile) stretch of road to a four-lane divided highway connecting Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh, with Nagpur, Maharashtra. While allowing humans to hurtle between these two cities, the road slices two tiger corridors: Pench-Nagzira corridor in Maharashtra and the Pench-Kanha corridor in Madhya Pradesh. Although National Highway 7 (NH7) exists already, widening it will aggravate the problem it poses to wildlife. Central Indian forests hold about 33% of India\u2019s tigers, 688 of them.According to the National Tiger Conservation Authority, a tiger population needs at least 80 to 100 adults to be self-sustaining. None of the tiger reserves in central India host a viable tiger population independently. Corridors are essential for these reserves to sustain tigers and other wild animals. For example, the lack of corridors caused a native population of gaur to go extinct in Bandhavgarh National Park in 1997.Camera trapping, genetic analysis, and radio telemetry studies show these corridors are active animal routes. Tigers are not the only ones using them; gaur, leopards, sloth bears, and wild dogs are some of the other large mammals that disperse along these paths. The National Tiger Conservation Authority said widening the road would cause irreparable damage to tiger habitat and turned down the proposal.The Wildlife Institute of India declared the two corridors are essential for the genetic diversity of the large cats. WWF-India called NH7 a \u201cmajor barrier for animals near the Pench Tiger Reserve\u201d in a report \u2018Lifeline for tigers.\u2019 The National Board of Wildlife did not view the proposal favourably and neither did the Forest Advisory Committee. The Central Empowered Committee of the Supreme Court called for the road to be shut down.This opposition ought to have shut the lid on the proposal.A Times of India report of 20 September 2013 describing the potholed NH7 as \u2018Highway to hell\u2019 marked a turning point. The Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court jumped in, by initiating legal proceedings based on the news report. At first, it ordered the road to be re-paved, but later demanded the highway be upgraded, without realising forest and wildlife clearances are necessary. But even after two years and numerous press reports, the court insists it has the authority to unilaterally order the road to be widened.The Ministry of Environment and Forests gave initial environmental clearance in December 2013. In February 2015, the high court and state government issued permissions to the highways authority to knock down trees over a 10-km (6-mile) stretch of NH7.However, none of the permissions, whether issued by the high court, the ministry, or the state, were legally valid since they ran afoul of the Forest Conservation Act and the Wildlife Protection Act. Instead of evaluating the merits of the case and its impact on wildlife, the wildlife board hurriedly cleared the project on 18 August. It didn\u2019t follow its own guidelines on how to deal with roads passing through protected forests. The ministry will likely push through the clearance required under the Forest Conservation Act as well. After all, it has gained a reputation among environmentalists and conservationists for cursorily approving any project that requires forests to be destroyed.The Wildlife Institute of India, which had initially objected to the road widening, changed its stand. Presumably capitulating under pressure from the ministry, high court, and/or the highways authority, it agreed that the road could be widened as long as underpasses were built to allow passage of wildlife at the cost of rupees 750 crores (\u00a373.6m).The National Highways Authority grudgingly committed to nine elevated sections along the road for the safe passage of wild animals at a cost of rupees 100 crores (\u00a39.82m). On 5 May 2015, conservation organisations filed an appeal in the National Green Tribunal challenging the permissions granted by the ministry and state. The tribunal stayed all further work on the highway.In a bizarre situation, two judicial bodies are at conflict with each other. Justice Gavai of the Bombay High Court disparaged the tribunal \u201cYou [the petitioner] chose to approach some tribunal which has been created under some Act.\u201d Justice Swatanter Kumar, the Chairperson of the National Green Tribunal, questioned how the high court could have allowed felling of trees in the absence of legal compliance. While one demanded that trees be chopped as soon as possible, the other sought assurances that not a single tree be hacked.About 49.25 hectares (121.70 acres) of forests would have to be leveled for widening NH7. That may not sound like much, but a road creates an edge along which the forest frays slowly. Safe havens for wildlife shrink as the increased disturbance from roads pushes animals farther into the interior. More traffic brings more air, noise, and light pollution in areas that need to be protected.But wildlife activists fear that a wide, divided, slick highway through some of the best forests of central India would become a death trap for wild animals. Roadkills are a major concern. For instance, highway traffic through Bandipur National Park, Karnataka, is now limited to daylight hours to reduce the mortality of wild animals. Most importantly, if the road is widened now, the highways authority might seek to make it even wider in the future.None of this anxiety is necessary because there is an alternative.The Wildlife Trust of India proposed another existing highway as a substitute to NH7 in 2009. It is a mere 70 km (43.4 miles) longer than the road cutting through tiger corridors. At that time, the highways authority quibbled that it was a state highway and cannot be upgraded to national highway. But since then, it has not only upgraded it to national highway status, but widened NH69 to a four-lane carriageway. Wildlife conservation organisations, including Bombay Natural History Society and Wildlife Institute of India, support this alternate route.NH69 cuts through good forest at Sillewani Ghat for 11 km, but wildlife activists recognise the need for road connectivity and the greater importance of leaving NH7 alone. This could be a win-win situation since NH69 has already been made. It saves the highways authority rupees 100 crore in building underpasses in Maharashtra alone. Madhya Pradesh would also have to build such structures on its side of the border at rupees 860 crores (\u00a384.4m).Almost all agencies that ought to protect wild habitats and species - the ministry, the state, wildlife institute, and the tiger authority - currently appear to support the highways authority\u2019s proposal. The case now rests with the tribunal.So what is it going to be?A 70-km detour or the future of three tiger reserves?", "tags": ["Wildlife", "Animals", "Conservation", "Endangered habitats", "India", "Environment", "Endangered species", "South and Central Asia", "Trees and forests"], "title": "India: No country for wild tigers? | Janaki Lenin"},{"date": "2015-08-03T05:49:16Z", "country": "india", "content": "Heavy monsoon rains have killed more than 100 people in India in the past week and forced tens of thousands of people to take shelter in state-run relief camps, India\u2019s home ministry has said.A cyclone struck the worst-hit state of West Bengal, where 48 people have died and nearly 215,000 villagers have been taken to relief camps after heavy rains triggered flooding, the ministry statement said.More than 200 medical teams using 120 boats have so far distributed more than 400,000 drinking water pouches in an effort to prevent the outbreak of water-borne diseases, according to authorities.Heavy rains have also caused widespread flooding in Burma, where at least 27 people have died and four areas have been declared disaster zones. The UN has warned that the situation could get much worse.Another 28 deaths were reported from Rajasthan in western India where rescue workers evacuated nearly 1,000 people to higher ground.On Saturday, at least 20 people were swept away by a landslide that flattened up to 10 homes in Jourmol, a village in north-eastern Manipur state, a spokesman for the national disaster response force said on Sunday.The annual monsoon season in India stretches from June until the end of September causing deaths and severe damage to homes and food crops.", "tags": ["India", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Monsoon rains leave 100 dead in India"},{"date": "2015-09-29T12:12:33Z", "country": "india", "content": "Last week, 63 million people were cut off from internet and mobile phone access in Gujarat, India. This didn\u2019t stop Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg and Indian prime minister Narendra Modi proclaiming over the weekend that communications access and, in particular, internet access, is the next important step in development. Modi didn\u2019t seem bothered by the fact that, following mass demonstrations, a population the size of the UK lost all phone and internet communications for the second time in less than a month. The world barely noticed.India is not alone. In Syria, the internet is used as a weapon of war \u2013 the disconnection of communications plays a central role in the conflict. In the Democratic Republic of Congo, similarly, connections were cut following mass demonstrations against the government.And before anyone suggests that only less developed countries resort to drastic disconnection, similar measures have been discussed in case of an \u201cemergency\u201d in the US, UK and Germany. The British government discussed quite extensively whether to shut down various communication channels during the 2011 riots. Pakistan bears the dubious honour of leading the world in government-ordered communications shutdowns, with at least 24 large-scale disconnections since 2012\u00ad. Marked like few other nations by the global war on terror, even the highest ranks of government in Pakistan complain about the overwhelming power of the military. National security measures frequently go overboard, and the human rights of the populations affected are only insufficiently considered.Some 80% of people in Pakistan have mobile phone access. One in four holds a smartphone. When communications are disconnected, the economy is seriously affected, and mobility and social relations are severed. Neither ambulances nor fire departments can be contacted quickly. Despite the impressive resilience of the Pakistani people, the social consequences cannot be overlooked.A new research study between London, Islamabad and Berlin found that, when communications are disconnected, the same regions already affected by other forms of exclusion are the worst hit. Large political rallies, but also regions seen as leaning towards the Taliban, are the most frequently affected by shutdowns in Pakistan. Since society constitutes through communication, for these communities, prevention of communication also constitutes exclusion from society. This logic extends to the waves of refugees moving across Europe. The issue here is that people don\u2019t just need the internet to \u201cphone home\u201d \u2013 they need access to become part of European society. The internet is used to access education, entertainment and culture. It grounds social participation, and is the mechanism for accessing many key services. In the current crisis, the physical separation of refugees is augmented by digital separation.\u201cAll the internet. All the people. All the time.\u201d Nigerian web activist Nnenna Nwakanma\u2019s call to action is simple to state, but hard to accomplish. Every crisis offers a new excuse for restrictions, and every \u201cdevelopment problem\u201d invites post-colonial reflex. Take Internet.org, the initiative proudly championed by Facebook and partners. Facebook\u2019s offer \u2013 recently partly rebranded Free Basics, in an effort to take the sting out of controversy about walled gardens, privacy and security \u2013 has more to do with access to Facebook than to the internet, and is a clever advertising campaign for Facebook\u2019s rollout in emerging markets. But we\u2019ve yet to see any serious attempt, notwithstanding Zuckerberg\u2019s weekend celebrity appeal with Bono, to resolving deep challenges of universal access.Given this landscape, we shouldn\u2019t be surprised that we have left governments and corporations with the power to completely turn off the internet. Without the protection that accompanies the creation of public services \u2013 such as electricity or water \u00ad\u2013 access to the internet and telecommunications are in discretionary hands. This gives both Modi and Zuckerberg the ability to flip the switch. Rather than providing all the internet to all the people all the time, we\u2019re allowing a few powerful men to make the internet a commodity of their choosing. ", "tags": ["Facebook", "Internet", "Technology", "Social networking", "India", "Pakistan"], "title": "Internet access matters \u00ad\u00ad\u2013 will Facebook or India provide it?"},{"date": "2015-09-21T08:54:28Z", "country": "india", "content": "A man in India has died after being buried alive by workers who did not see him lying unconscious at the bottom of a pothole.Officials in Katni, in the central state of Madhya Pradesh, are investigating the incident and have promised compensation to his widow.The 45-year-old man, named as Latori Barman, was walking home from a fair when he fell into a large hole in the road, Indian media reported. \u201cIt was dark and there were no warning signs. He would have been walking in an inebriated condition when he fell into the pit between Udlana and Hata villages and lost consciousness. Workers must not have noticed him while filling the pothole with bitumen,\u201d an investigating officer told the Times of India. The newspaper added that the workers then used a heavy roller to flatten the surface. The accident \u201cwould have gone unnoticed had residents not discovered the man\u2019s arm sticking out from the tarred road\u201d, the paper said.Police have arrested several road workers.The death is the latest linked to India\u2019s potholes, also called \u201ckiller craters\u201d. A woman in her 20s died in the city of Bengaluru last week after the motorbike on which she was riding crashed, reportedly because of a pothole.In one Indian city, residents resorted to naming individual holes after prominent officials to draw attention to the poor road conditions.About 150,000 people die on Indian roads each year, with hundreds of thousands injured, often seriously. Most deaths are caused by poor driving, official statistics show.", "tags": ["India", "South and Central Asia", "World news"], "title": "Man dies after being buried in pothole in India"},{"date": "2015-09-20T14:04:13Z", "country": "india", "content": "The four helicopters trailing giant flags had passed an hour earlier; the tanks and fighter jets would come later. Now, it was the turn of a formation of sword-wielding, stamping, infantry in golden turbans to entertain the crowd packed into the grandstands halfway between the stately India Gate and the vast presidential palace in Delhi\u2019s centre.The Verma family \u2013 mother, father, son and daughter \u2013 had come from the eastern outskirts of the Indian capital to watch the show. \u201cIt was necessary to come. I am a proud Indian ... we have to remember our victories, our sacrifices. We have to remember what we can do, and what can be done. This will frighten some people and that is a good thing,\u201d said Priyaranjan Verma, 43, a finance manager for a freight firm.The \u201csome people\u201d he was referring to were the 190 million or so inhabitants of Pakistan, or at least their rulers.Sunday\u2019s parade marked the climax of a month of events in India commemorating the golden anniversary of the 1965 war with the neighbouring country. The partition of India had occurred 18 years before 1965, when the country gained independence from Britain. Pakistan and India have each claimed victory in the inconclusive 60s conflict, one of four they have fought. But over the decades both nations appear largely to have forgotten this war, with history books focusing on the more dramatic clashes of 1947, 1971 and 1999.It surprised some onlookers then when the government of Narendra Modi, the Hindu nationalist politician who won a landslide election last year after promising to bring economic development and make India \u201crespected\u201d, ordered a high-profile, month-long celebration of his nation\u2019s \u201cvictory\u201d in the 1965 war. The event is reported to have cost more than \u00a33m, and has included military displays in provincial towns, giant newspaper adverts, commemorative coins and stamps, as well as a team of naval personnel motorbiking 1,200 miles across India.Modi opened an exhibition in central Delhi devoted to the war, commenting that \u201cthe valour [and] sacrifice of our armed forces during the 1965 war remains etched in the memory of every Indian\u201d.The 60s conflict started when Pakistan fomented violence in the disputed Himalayan former princedom of Kashmir and ended with a UN-sponsored ceasefire followed by an exchange of captured territory. The war entailed fierce fighting, particularly between tank units, and it is thought both sides suffered more than 3,000 casualties.At the opening ceremony, Manohar Parrikar, India\u2019s defence minister, said the exhibition commemorated \u201cthe first major war that India won\u201d. He added: \u201cSome people raise the question whether India won, or was there a stalemate? Even as a nine-year-old kid I was of the firm opinion that India won hands down.\u201dSome historians\u2019 opinions differ. \u201cIt was inconclusive and that is recognised \u2026 even by those involved in the conflict. We actually gave up what little territory we seized and by no yardstick can it be claimed a victory,\u201d said Pallavi Raghavan, a specialist in relations between India and Pakistan, working at the Centre for Policy Research, in Delhi.However Dilip Hiro, a journalist and analyst, wrote in a recently published account of relations between India and Pakistan that \u201c[India] won by not losing \u2026 [Pakistan] gained nothing from a war it initiated\u201d.The war fought between the two states in 1971, however, was a conclusive defeat for Pakistan. A tentative peace process which followed a further confrontation in 1999 has been frozen since an attack in Mumbai by Pakistan-based militants in 2008. The attack in Mumbai, India\u2019s commercial capital, targeted luxury hotels, commuters, a Jewish centre and tourist sites. There have been several intensive exchanges of artillery fire in the past year, while India continues to blame Pakistan for unrest in Kashmir.Pakistan reacted to the celebrations in India by upgrading its own annual Defence Day, which traditionally marks the 1965 war. Normally a relatively low-key affair, the ceremony held on 6 September was transformed into a big television event, with parachute drops by special forces, air displays and exhibitions of military hardware at various sites around the country.At the main ceremony, at army headquarters in Rawalpindi, the army screened video re-enactments of key battles against Islamist militants.Pakistan\u2019s powerful army chief, Raheel Sharif, used the occasion to deliver a sharp warning to India that it would \u201cpay an unbearable cost\u201d if it ever resorted \u201cto any misadventure\u201d. He added: \u201cThe armed forces of Pakistan are fully capable of dealing with all types of internal and external threats, may it be conventional or sub-conventional, whether it is cold start or hot start. We are ready.\u201dHis speech was a riposte to the remarks of his opposite number, the general Dalbir Singh Suhag, who said India was ready for the \u201cswift, short, nature of future wars\u201d.India\u2019s army has long been planning for a \u201ccold start\u201d in any possible confrontation with Pakistan, which would allow it to quickly retaliate, fielding military units with little preparation and thus countering its smaller neighbour\u2019s ability to concentrate forces more rapidly.Sharif also struck a hard line on Kashmir, saying it could \u201cno longer be put on the back burner\u201d, although few foreign policy experts think Pakistan will ever gain control of the whole region.Amid the army\u2019s publicity drive there were signs of a surge of patriotism, even bellicosity, among sections of the public. A newspaper account of a lecture at Karachi University, at which the historian Akbar Zaidi questioned the popular narrative that Pakistan won the 1965 conflict, provoked a storm of anger on social media, with many alleging the newspaper was in the pocket of India.\u201cWith the celebration of the victory in the 1965 war round the corner, there can be no bigger lie [than] that Pakistan won the war,\u201d he was reported to have said. \u201cWe lost terribly in the 1965 war.\u201dRaghavan, the Indian historian, said the focus on conflicts ignored the long history of dialogue and exchange between the two nations. \u201cThe warfare has always been contained, never all-out. Each time there is an episode of violence it is followed by an episode of engagement. There is always much good will on both sides and the reasons for that are as durable as the reasons for going to war.\u201dThe sentiment was not universally shared at the parade ground in Delhi.\u201cThese are bad people but we are not frightened of them. Why should we be when we always win?\u201d said Verma, as he quickened his pace to avoid missing the motorbike display team.", "tags": ["India", "Pakistan", "South and Central Asia", "World news"], "title": "India and Pakistan loudly commemorate the war they both 'won '"},{"date": "2015-09-17T21:13:45Z", "country": "india", "content": "Nebraska\u2019s attempt to import from India a drug needed to carry out executions months after the state legislature banned capital punishment in the state failed last month because of mishandled paperwork, according to BuzzFeed News. The news site acquired documents that said a shipment of sodium thiopental from India never left the country for Nebraska because of \u201cimproper or missing paperwork\u201d. The drug import is not approved by the Food and Drug Administration, which has warned the state that the order is illegal.Last month, the ACLU of Nebraska asked the US Attorney\u2019s office to investigate the state\u2019s \u201congoing efforts to obtain lethal injection drugs from a foreign source\u201d.Before Nebraska lawmakers voted to repeal the death penalty, state officials said in May that two of the three drugs needed to carry out lethal injections had been ordered. The state already possesses the third. Nebraska abolished the death penalty in May, after lawmakers overrode the governor\u2019s veto of a bill supported by a majority of legislators. As lawmakers pushed for an end to capital punishment, KETV NewsWatch 7 reported that Nebraska paid Harris Pharma $51,000 for the two drugs: sodium thiopental and pancuronium bromide.Nebraska Correctional Services spokesperson James Foster confirmed to Buzzfeed that the state had not been sent the drug but did not know why. FedEx said that the package was returned to the sender because the paperwork in India was incorrect. Foster did not respond to a query from The Guardian about why it was trying to important the drug. In June, the FDA sent a similar warning to Ohio, which had sought to import sodium thiopental into the United States. US states with capitol punishment have faced increasing difficulty obtaining drugs for use in execution since a boycott by European-based manufacturers. Some have turned to specialty compounding pharmacies, whose identities are kept secret by state laws. Others have sought to return to earlier methods of execution: the electric chair in Tennessee, and the firing squad in Utah.Nebraska is the first predominantly Republican state to end capital punishment since the 1970s. Death penalty supporters are pushing for a referendum on the bill to be included on the November 2016 ballot. ", "tags": ["Nebraska", "Capital punishment", "US news", "Ohio"], "title": "Nebraska\u2019s attempt to import lethal injection drugs from India failed"},{"date": "2015-09-16T09:36:51Z", "country": "india", "content": "The world is in awe of China\u2019s relentless capacity to produce gargantuan cities, each outdoing the most recent superlative that describes its predecessor. If Shenzhen and Shanghai are megacities, and the Pearl-River Delta a sprawling urban agglomeration, then what should we call the 130 million-strong Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei city-region the government is currently planning? A gigacity?While China just keeps building bigger and higher, India has also supersized its old colonial cities, following the centripetal model of dense cores and endless peripheries. White collar workers in Delhi or Mumbai, just as in Beijing or Shanghai, are pushed out to new dormitory towns, hours away from their jobs. A part of the Indian working class may have managed to remain close to their place of work, but at the price of being squeezed into insecure, under-serviced settlements. Millennium prophecies about the irrelevance of cities \u2013 thanks to new transport and communication technologies \u2013 have been buried along with countless urban utopias. Cities seem to be more central to the global economy than ever. For China and India, urbanisation and development have become quasi-synonymous. In 2012, China\u2019s real estate and construction industry accounted for 15% of the country\u2019s GDP. In India, Mumbai\u2019s represents about 20% of the country\u2019s GDP, and 60% of it is produced in urban areas. Yet, as far as country-wide urbanisation is concerned, India appears to be lagging behind. The urban population of both countries was 26% in 1990. While this ratio changed only marginally in India, it doubled in China. The UN predicts that it will take at least another 35 years for India\u2019s urban population to reach China\u2019s present 54% mark. By which time, the global giant will be respectably urbanised with three-quarters of its population living in cities and towns. India seems desperate to catch up with China when it comes to urbanisation. The government plans to create 100 or so \u201csmart cities\u201d, wired to the world and connected to each other via new airports and high-speed trains. New York\u2019s Bloomberg Philanthropies, among others, are advising the government on what being \u201csmart\u201d is all about when it comes to city planning. But is urban growth really comparable between India and China? And can the shift from rural to urban be expressed only in terms of residential statistics? One of the main differences between the two countries is the way they deal with internal migration. China has official restrictions on its workforce. It tries (and fails) to maintain its district boundaries through sharp control of movement. In contrast, India\u2019s working classes and service providers move from city to city, village to village, rural to urban areas with astounding fluidity and frequency.The urban population of China and India was 26% in 1990. The ratio has changed slightly in India: it's doubled in China The unacknowledged armature of pan-India\u2019s urbanity is its run-down railway network, which carries 9 billion passengers per year \u2013 four times as much as China\u2019s state of the art network does. This difference is partly explained by the price: the cheapest train ticket from Shanghai to Beijing (1,318 km in 12 hours) is about \u00a333; from Mumbai to Delhi (1,442 km in about 18 hours), it is just above \u00a33. Contrary to the common belief that people are simply moving from rural to urban areas, another scenario is playing out in India. Trains and buses going back to the hinterland are just as crowded as those going towards the big cities. There is massive multi-directional traffic of people moving perennially up and down the country. This movement is part of a deferred commuting pattern in which the village and the city are both active spaces in people\u2019s personal and professional lives.  It is typical for an urban worker in India to return home twice or three times a year \u2013 for family functions or to help with the farm during monsoons. Urban families with strong roots in villages have also diversified their sources of revenue and reinvested money there. Millions of small projects are taking place in India\u2019s villages as people build new homes, develop local infrastructure and invest in new technologies for farming and small-scale manufacturing.  With connectivity and infrastructure catching up, villages are turning into more than safety nets for rural-urban migrants. They are becoming parts of large urban systems, where many Indians project their future \u2013 even if that future is made of journeys back and forth. It is true that migrants to cities have contributed to India\u2019s urban growth. It is equally true that they have maintained ties with their native village homes. Family structures have adapted to manage long-distance relationships. Thanks to mobile technologies, running dual households is easier than ever before \u2013 and partly explains the enthusiastic absorption of this technology; indeed, 650 million Indians are slated to be smart phone owners in four years from now. Smart phones allow urban Indians to remain in touch with their rural homes, facilitate economic transactions and contribute to the diffusion of urban lifestyles all over the country. It is not just the settled middle-classes that are wired and mobile. The vast majority of workers and service providers, who sell ware on the streets and live in shanties, are also part of this process. A large, though unaccounted, share of the 24% urban dwellers who live in slum areas have kept active ties with their ancestral villages.  India\u2019s brand of \u201ccirculatory urbanism\u201d differs from the standard 20th century model of dominating cities and an endless periphery. Its networked habitats and lifestyles are not quite suburban or simplistically rural either, since dual households remain economically productive and socially relevant on both ends of the spectrum. The same person shifts worker status, slipping from farmer to driver, shopkeeper to manufacturer, hopping between activities and habitats \u2013 and confusing census data.  This is not to say that cities have become irrelevant. On the contrary, they remain key nodes in ever expanding regional and global networks. At some level, cities have always played that role. Mumbai grew as a colonial trading hub, where resources taken from the hinterlands where shipped to the rest of the world. What is new is the level of connectivity between rural and urban zones, generated by people\u2019s free movement and communication. These movements, which ultimately question classic notions of the urban and the rural, are an essential component of India\u2019s urbanity. This means that urbanisation can\u2019t be reduced to a milestone on a demographic chart.  In fact, it would make better sense for policies to forsake the arcane rural and urban lines of directing investment and recognise that India\u2019s urbanity lies on the points of connections between these abstractions. India is more networked than we care to acknowledge. A shift in perspective will help evolve a set of categories and projects that do greater justice to the emerging urban landscape in India. It is time we start conceiving of the urban as a realm that stretches far beyond the discrete unit of the city At present, census data tells us that the fastest urbanisation is happening in smaller towns and cities all across the sub-continent, which are yoked through active channels of mobility to large metropolitan hubs. However, these small and mid-size towns are not just growing in terms of population, but are active nodes that sit on various criss-crossing channels \u2013 linking villages and towns. Such towns have harnessed the increase in movement brought by advances in transport and communication over the last decades. Urban planners in India need to work with their flows and circulatory systems. For example, recognising the needs of a mobile population, and encouraging the production of affordable rental accommodation in cities in a more targeted way of reducing slums compared to most policies in practice today.  Factoring in how the to-and-fro movements of labour shape urban and rural landscapes through families that work as dispersed but connected units will go a long way in planning more appropriate infrastructure for the real needs of people everywhere.  In the long run, if we are at all serious about addressing environmental concerns and balancing different modern economic sectors \u2013 including the agrarian \u2013 in a labour-surplus economy, then remapping the interconnections between the rural and the urban will make it easier to achieve those objectives.  Related: Delhi Mumbai Corridor: how the world's largest infrastructure project is uprooting Indian farmers  It is time we start conceiving of the urban as a realm that stretches far beyond the discrete unit of the city \u2013 smart or otherwise. Most present policies will only create small enclaves of medieval style fort-cities, surrounded by vast expenses of undervalued habitats.  Instead of playing the catch-up game with China, and exhausting itself on the stationary treadmill of urban development, India should probably recognise the potential of its own brand of user-generated urbanism. Rather than high-speed, it may need to invest more in keeping trains and roads accessible to ordinary residents in villages and towns, as well as big cities.  It is time to get over an outdated image of cities as prime markers of urbanisation and progress in pure demographic terms. India may well be urbanising in ways that are potentially far more sustainable and contemporary than those it is trying to emulate.Matias Echanove and Rahul Srivastava are co-founders of Urbz and the Institute of Urbanology in Mumbai and Geneva. Follow Guardian Cities on Twitter and Facebook and join the discussion", "tags": ["Cities", "Urbanisation", "India", "China", "Asia Pacific", "South and Central Asia", "Beijing holidays", "Asia", "China holidays", "Travel", "Mumbai holidays", "World news", "India holidays"], "title": "Why India should reject China's obsession with bigger, denser megacities"},{"date": "2015-09-27T12:28:56Z", "country": "india", "content": "India is to launch a mini Hubble-type space observatory, a major step forward for the emerging power\u2019s increasingly capable space programme.Last year, the south Asian nation became the first country to launch a successful Mars orbital mission on its first attempt. At \u00a350m, the robotic probe, which is still circling the red planet, cost a fraction of earlier similar missions by the US, Russia and European countries.The new observatory, dubbed the AstroSat, is due to be launched from the country\u2019s main space centre at Sriharikota in southern India on Monday. If it is successful, India will be the first state in the developing world to have placed its own telescope in space.\u201cThis is the first time we are launching a dedicated astronomy mission,\u201d said K Suryanarayana Sarma, project director of AstroSat at the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO). Related: India's Mars satellite successfully enters orbit, bringing country into space elite  \u201cThis is a unique mission because \u2026 we have a very wide band of astronomical observation with sophisticated instruments with good resolution and specifications,\u201d Sarma said. First conceived in 1996, the project was given the green light in 2004. It is believed to have cost about \u00a335m. One of the reasons for the decade-long delay is the complexities of one specific instrument, a telescope using x-rays that has 320 aluminium mirrors that need to be positioned with extreme accuracy. The instrument was developed in collaboration with the University of Leicester in the UK. Some commentators have questioned comparisons with the Hubble, launched by Nasa in 1990, which has become known for spectacular photographs of events in deep space. \u201cCalling [the] AstroSat \u2018India\u2019s Hubble\u2019 will imply that ISRO has reached that level of engineering capability when it has not. And making that reference repeatedly will only foster complacency about defining the scale and scope of future missions,\u201d wrote Vasudevan Mukunth, on Indian news website The Wire last week.  As well as being 10 times smaller than the Hubble, the AstroSat has a more limited lifespan of five years. This has however some advantages.\u201cWe intend a mission life of five years for the AstroSat. So the question of repairs, like the ones done by astronauts on the Hubble, doesn\u2019t arise,\u201d said Deviprasad Karnik, an ISRO spokesman. Indian scientists say their observatory has an unprecedented array of telescopes that will allow simultaneous data collection through different means. The mission will also be the first time the country will launch US satellites. The launch comes on the day Narendra Modi, the prime minister, is due to meet Barack Obama during a trip to the US. The successful launch of India\u2019s Mars orbiter last year came just days before Modi travelled to the US on his first trip after a landslide electoral victory. It led TV bulletins and filled front pages. The project aims to study the surface and mineral composition of Mars, and scan its atmosphere for methane, a chemical strongly tied to life on Earth. Modi wants to establish India as a bigger player in the \u00a3200bn space technology market, against stiff competition from neighbouring China with its bigger launchers. The Indian prime minister toured Silicon Valley this weekend, meeting CEOs of major tech firms and addressing a rally of Indian Americans in a bid to promote India as a nation of technological innovation and capabilities. \u201cWe have never launched an American satellite [before] \u2026 Politically and scientifically, India launching four American satellites marks the biggest step yet in Indo-US space collaboration,\u201d said Srinivas Laxman, a space science expert. Preparations to put an Indian in space are under way though there has been \u201cno approval from the government for the mission itself\u201d, said Karnik.  \u201cWe are preparing the physical technology. [A] man in space mission is not on the agenda at the moment,\u201d he added.", "tags": ["India", "Space", "Astronomy", "Hubble space telescope", "Science", "US news"], "title": "India to launch country's first space observatory"},{"date": "2015-08-31T03:39:52Z", "country": "india", "content": "If the tigers of Panna are under threat of being displaced by a dam, the tigers of nearby Kanha, Pench, and Navegaon Nagzira tiger reserves in the two central Indian states of Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra are in danger from a highway.The National Highways Authority of India proposes to widen a 50-km (31-mile) stretch of road to a four-lane divided highway connecting Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh, with Nagpur, Maharashtra. While allowing humans to hurtle between these two cities, the road slices two tiger corridors: Pench-Nagzira corridor in Maharashtra and the Pench-Kanha corridor in Madhya Pradesh. Although National Highway 7 (NH7) exists already, widening it will aggravate the problem it poses to wildlife. Central Indian forests hold about 33% of India\u2019s tigers, 688 of them.According to the National Tiger Conservation Authority, a tiger population needs at least 80 to 100 adults to be self-sustaining. None of the tiger reserves in central India host a viable tiger population independently. Corridors are essential for these reserves to sustain tigers and other wild animals. For example, the lack of corridors caused a native population of gaur to go extinct in Bandhavgarh National Park in 1997.Camera trapping, genetic analysis, and radio telemetry studies show these corridors are active animal routes. Tigers are not the only ones using them; gaur, leopards, sloth bears, and wild dogs are some of the other large mammals that disperse along these paths. The National Tiger Conservation Authority said widening the road would cause irreparable damage to tiger habitat and turned down the proposal.The Wildlife Institute of India declared the two corridors are essential for the genetic diversity of the large cats. WWF-India called NH7 a \u201cmajor barrier for animals near the Pench Tiger Reserve\u201d in a report \u2018Lifeline for tigers.\u2019 The National Board of Wildlife did not view the proposal favourably and neither did the Forest Advisory Committee. The Central Empowered Committee of the Supreme Court called for the road to be shut down.This opposition ought to have shut the lid on the proposal.A Times of India report of 20 September 2013 describing the potholed NH7 as \u2018Highway to hell\u2019 marked a turning point. The Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court jumped in, by initiating legal proceedings based on the news report. At first, it ordered the road to be re-paved, but later demanded the highway be upgraded, without realising forest and wildlife clearances are necessary. But even after two years and numerous press reports, the court insists it has the authority to unilaterally order the road to be widened.The Ministry of Environment and Forests gave initial environmental clearance in December 2013. In February 2015, the high court and state government issued permissions to the highways authority to knock down trees over a 10-km (6-mile) stretch of NH7.However, none of the permissions, whether issued by the high court, the ministry, or the state, were legally valid since they ran afoul of the Forest Conservation Act and the Wildlife Protection Act. Instead of evaluating the merits of the case and its impact on wildlife, the wildlife board hurriedly cleared the project on 18 August. It didn\u2019t follow its own guidelines on how to deal with roads passing through protected forests. The ministry will likely push through the clearance required under the Forest Conservation Act as well. After all, it has gained a reputation among environmentalists and conservationists for cursorily approving any project that requires forests to be destroyed.The Wildlife Institute of India, which had initially objected to the road widening, changed its stand. Presumably capitulating under pressure from the ministry, high court, and/or the highways authority, it agreed that the road could be widened as long as underpasses were built to allow passage of wildlife at the cost of rupees 750 crores (\u00a373.6m).The National Highways Authority grudgingly committed to nine elevated sections along the road for the safe passage of wild animals at a cost of rupees 100 crores (\u00a39.82m). On 5 May 2015, conservation organisations filed an appeal in the National Green Tribunal challenging the permissions granted by the ministry and state. The tribunal stayed all further work on the highway.In a bizarre situation, two judicial bodies are at conflict with each other. Justice Gavai of the Bombay High Court disparaged the tribunal \u201cYou [the petitioner] chose to approach some tribunal which has been created under some Act.\u201d Justice Swatanter Kumar, the Chairperson of the National Green Tribunal, questioned how the high court could have allowed felling of trees in the absence of legal compliance. While one demanded that trees be chopped as soon as possible, the other sought assurances that not a single tree be hacked.About 49.25 hectares (121.70 acres) of forests would have to be leveled for widening NH7. That may not sound like much, but a road creates an edge along which the forest frays slowly. Safe havens for wildlife shrink as the increased disturbance from roads pushes animals farther into the interior. More traffic brings more air, noise, and light pollution in areas that need to be protected.But wildlife activists fear that a wide, divided, slick highway through some of the best forests of central India would become a death trap for wild animals. Roadkills are a major concern. For instance, highway traffic through Bandipur National Park, Karnataka, is now limited to daylight hours to reduce the mortality of wild animals. Most importantly, if the road is widened now, the highways authority might seek to make it even wider in the future.None of this anxiety is necessary because there is an alternative.The Wildlife Trust of India proposed another existing highway as a substitute to NH7 in 2009. It is a mere 70 km (43.4 miles) longer than the road cutting through tiger corridors. At that time, the highways authority quibbled that it was a state highway and cannot be upgraded to national highway. But since then, it has not only upgraded it to national highway status, but widened NH69 to a four-lane carriageway. Wildlife conservation organisations, including Bombay Natural History Society and Wildlife Institute of India, support this alternate route.NH69 cuts through good forest at Sillewani Ghat for 11 km, but wildlife activists recognise the need for road connectivity and the greater importance of leaving NH7 alone. This could be a win-win situation since NH69 has already been made. It saves the highways authority rupees 100 crore in building underpasses in Maharashtra alone. Madhya Pradesh would also have to build such structures on its side of the border at rupees 860 crores (\u00a384.4m).Almost all agencies that ought to protect wild habitats and species - the ministry, the state, wildlife institute, and the tiger authority - currently appear to support the highways authority\u2019s proposal. The case now rests with the tribunal.So what is it going to be?A 70-km detour or the future of three tiger reserves?", "tags": ["Wildlife", "Animals", "Conservation", "Endangered habitats", "India", "Environment", "Endangered species", "South and Central Asia", "Trees and forests"], "title": "India: No country for wild tigers? | Janaki Lenin"},{"date": "2015-08-03T05:49:16Z", "country": "india", "content": "Heavy monsoon rains have killed more than 100 people in India in the past week and forced tens of thousands of people to take shelter in state-run relief camps, India\u2019s home ministry has said.A cyclone struck the worst-hit state of West Bengal, where 48 people have died and nearly 215,000 villagers have been taken to relief camps after heavy rains triggered flooding, the ministry statement said.More than 200 medical teams using 120 boats have so far distributed more than 400,000 drinking water pouches in an effort to prevent the outbreak of water-borne diseases, according to authorities.Heavy rains have also caused widespread flooding in Burma, where at least 27 people have died and four areas have been declared disaster zones. The UN has warned that the situation could get much worse.Another 28 deaths were reported from Rajasthan in western India where rescue workers evacuated nearly 1,000 people to higher ground.On Saturday, at least 20 people were swept away by a landslide that flattened up to 10 homes in Jourmol, a village in north-eastern Manipur state, a spokesman for the national disaster response force said on Sunday.The annual monsoon season in India stretches from June until the end of September causing deaths and severe damage to homes and food crops.", "tags": ["India", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Monsoon rains leave 100 dead in India"},{"date": "2015-09-29T12:12:33Z", "country": "india", "content": "Last week, 63 million people were cut off from internet and mobile phone access in Gujarat, India. This didn\u2019t stop Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg and Indian prime minister Narendra Modi proclaiming over the weekend that communications access and, in particular, internet access, is the next important step in development. Modi didn\u2019t seem bothered by the fact that, following mass demonstrations, a population the size of the UK lost all phone and internet communications for the second time in less than a month. The world barely noticed.India is not alone. In Syria, the internet is used as a weapon of war \u2013 the disconnection of communications plays a central role in the conflict. In the Democratic Republic of Congo, similarly, connections were cut following mass demonstrations against the government.And before anyone suggests that only less developed countries resort to drastic disconnection, similar measures have been discussed in case of an \u201cemergency\u201d in the US, UK and Germany. The British government discussed quite extensively whether to shut down various communication channels during the 2011 riots. Pakistan bears the dubious honour of leading the world in government-ordered communications shutdowns, with at least 24 large-scale disconnections since 2012\u00ad. Marked like few other nations by the global war on terror, even the highest ranks of government in Pakistan complain about the overwhelming power of the military. National security measures frequently go overboard, and the human rights of the populations affected are only insufficiently considered.Some 80% of people in Pakistan have mobile phone access. One in four holds a smartphone. When communications are disconnected, the economy is seriously affected, and mobility and social relations are severed. Neither ambulances nor fire departments can be contacted quickly. Despite the impressive resilience of the Pakistani people, the social consequences cannot be overlooked.A new research study between London, Islamabad and Berlin found that, when communications are disconnected, the same regions already affected by other forms of exclusion are the worst hit. Large political rallies, but also regions seen as leaning towards the Taliban, are the most frequently affected by shutdowns in Pakistan. Since society constitutes through communication, for these communities, prevention of communication also constitutes exclusion from society. This logic extends to the waves of refugees moving across Europe. The issue here is that people don\u2019t just need the internet to \u201cphone home\u201d \u2013 they need access to become part of European society. The internet is used to access education, entertainment and culture. It grounds social participation, and is the mechanism for accessing many key services. In the current crisis, the physical separation of refugees is augmented by digital separation.\u201cAll the internet. All the people. All the time.\u201d Nigerian web activist Nnenna Nwakanma\u2019s call to action is simple to state, but hard to accomplish. Every crisis offers a new excuse for restrictions, and every \u201cdevelopment problem\u201d invites post-colonial reflex. Take Internet.org, the initiative proudly championed by Facebook and partners. Facebook\u2019s offer \u2013 recently partly rebranded Free Basics, in an effort to take the sting out of controversy about walled gardens, privacy and security \u2013 has more to do with access to Facebook than to the internet, and is a clever advertising campaign for Facebook\u2019s rollout in emerging markets. But we\u2019ve yet to see any serious attempt, notwithstanding Zuckerberg\u2019s weekend celebrity appeal with Bono, to resolving deep challenges of universal access.Given this landscape, we shouldn\u2019t be surprised that we have left governments and corporations with the power to completely turn off the internet. Without the protection that accompanies the creation of public services \u2013 such as electricity or water \u00ad\u2013 access to the internet and telecommunications are in discretionary hands. This gives both Modi and Zuckerberg the ability to flip the switch. Rather than providing all the internet to all the people all the time, we\u2019re allowing a few powerful men to make the internet a commodity of their choosing. ", "tags": ["Facebook", "Internet", "Technology", "Social networking", "India", "Pakistan"], "title": "Internet access matters \u00ad\u00ad\u2013 will Facebook or India provide it?"},{"date": "2015-09-21T08:54:28Z", "country": "india", "content": "A man in India has died after being buried alive by workers who did not see him lying unconscious at the bottom of a pothole.Officials in Katni, in the central state of Madhya Pradesh, are investigating the incident and have promised compensation to his widow.The 45-year-old man, named as Latori Barman, was walking home from a fair when he fell into a large hole in the road, Indian media reported. \u201cIt was dark and there were no warning signs. He would have been walking in an inebriated condition when he fell into the pit between Udlana and Hata villages and lost consciousness. Workers must not have noticed him while filling the pothole with bitumen,\u201d an investigating officer told the Times of India. The newspaper added that the workers then used a heavy roller to flatten the surface. The accident \u201cwould have gone unnoticed had residents not discovered the man\u2019s arm sticking out from the tarred road\u201d, the paper said.Police have arrested several road workers.The death is the latest linked to India\u2019s potholes, also called \u201ckiller craters\u201d. A woman in her 20s died in the city of Bengaluru last week after the motorbike on which she was riding crashed, reportedly because of a pothole.In one Indian city, residents resorted to naming individual holes after prominent officials to draw attention to the poor road conditions.About 150,000 people die on Indian roads each year, with hundreds of thousands injured, often seriously. Most deaths are caused by poor driving, official statistics show.", "tags": ["India", "South and Central Asia", "World news"], "title": "Man dies after being buried in pothole in India"},{"date": "2015-09-20T14:04:13Z", "country": "india", "content": "The four helicopters trailing giant flags had passed an hour earlier; the tanks and fighter jets would come later. Now, it was the turn of a formation of sword-wielding, stamping, infantry in golden turbans to entertain the crowd packed into the grandstands halfway between the stately India Gate and the vast presidential palace in Delhi\u2019s centre.The Verma family \u2013 mother, father, son and daughter \u2013 had come from the eastern outskirts of the Indian capital to watch the show. \u201cIt was necessary to come. I am a proud Indian ... we have to remember our victories, our sacrifices. We have to remember what we can do, and what can be done. This will frighten some people and that is a good thing,\u201d said Priyaranjan Verma, 43, a finance manager for a freight firm.The \u201csome people\u201d he was referring to were the 190 million or so inhabitants of Pakistan, or at least their rulers.Sunday\u2019s parade marked the climax of a month of events in India commemorating the golden anniversary of the 1965 war with the neighbouring country. The partition of India had occurred 18 years before 1965, when the country gained independence from Britain. Pakistan and India have each claimed victory in the inconclusive 60s conflict, one of four they have fought. But over the decades both nations appear largely to have forgotten this war, with history books focusing on the more dramatic clashes of 1947, 1971 and 1999.It surprised some onlookers then when the government of Narendra Modi, the Hindu nationalist politician who won a landslide election last year after promising to bring economic development and make India \u201crespected\u201d, ordered a high-profile, month-long celebration of his nation\u2019s \u201cvictory\u201d in the 1965 war. The event is reported to have cost more than \u00a33m, and has included military displays in provincial towns, giant newspaper adverts, commemorative coins and stamps, as well as a team of naval personnel motorbiking 1,200 miles across India.Modi opened an exhibition in central Delhi devoted to the war, commenting that \u201cthe valour [and] sacrifice of our armed forces during the 1965 war remains etched in the memory of every Indian\u201d.The 60s conflict started when Pakistan fomented violence in the disputed Himalayan former princedom of Kashmir and ended with a UN-sponsored ceasefire followed by an exchange of captured territory. The war entailed fierce fighting, particularly between tank units, and it is thought both sides suffered more than 3,000 casualties.At the opening ceremony, Manohar Parrikar, India\u2019s defence minister, said the exhibition commemorated \u201cthe first major war that India won\u201d. He added: \u201cSome people raise the question whether India won, or was there a stalemate? Even as a nine-year-old kid I was of the firm opinion that India won hands down.\u201dSome historians\u2019 opinions differ. \u201cIt was inconclusive and that is recognised \u2026 even by those involved in the conflict. We actually gave up what little territory we seized and by no yardstick can it be claimed a victory,\u201d said Pallavi Raghavan, a specialist in relations between India and Pakistan, working at the Centre for Policy Research, in Delhi.However Dilip Hiro, a journalist and analyst, wrote in a recently published account of relations between India and Pakistan that \u201c[India] won by not losing \u2026 [Pakistan] gained nothing from a war it initiated\u201d.The war fought between the two states in 1971, however, was a conclusive defeat for Pakistan. A tentative peace process which followed a further confrontation in 1999 has been frozen since an attack in Mumbai by Pakistan-based militants in 2008. The attack in Mumbai, India\u2019s commercial capital, targeted luxury hotels, commuters, a Jewish centre and tourist sites. There have been several intensive exchanges of artillery fire in the past year, while India continues to blame Pakistan for unrest in Kashmir.Pakistan reacted to the celebrations in India by upgrading its own annual Defence Day, which traditionally marks the 1965 war. Normally a relatively low-key affair, the ceremony held on 6 September was transformed into a big television event, with parachute drops by special forces, air displays and exhibitions of military hardware at various sites around the country.At the main ceremony, at army headquarters in Rawalpindi, the army screened video re-enactments of key battles against Islamist militants.Pakistan\u2019s powerful army chief, Raheel Sharif, used the occasion to deliver a sharp warning to India that it would \u201cpay an unbearable cost\u201d if it ever resorted \u201cto any misadventure\u201d. He added: \u201cThe armed forces of Pakistan are fully capable of dealing with all types of internal and external threats, may it be conventional or sub-conventional, whether it is cold start or hot start. We are ready.\u201dHis speech was a riposte to the remarks of his opposite number, the general Dalbir Singh Suhag, who said India was ready for the \u201cswift, short, nature of future wars\u201d.India\u2019s army has long been planning for a \u201ccold start\u201d in any possible confrontation with Pakistan, which would allow it to quickly retaliate, fielding military units with little preparation and thus countering its smaller neighbour\u2019s ability to concentrate forces more rapidly.Sharif also struck a hard line on Kashmir, saying it could \u201cno longer be put on the back burner\u201d, although few foreign policy experts think Pakistan will ever gain control of the whole region.Amid the army\u2019s publicity drive there were signs of a surge of patriotism, even bellicosity, among sections of the public. A newspaper account of a lecture at Karachi University, at which the historian Akbar Zaidi questioned the popular narrative that Pakistan won the 1965 conflict, provoked a storm of anger on social media, with many alleging the newspaper was in the pocket of India.\u201cWith the celebration of the victory in the 1965 war round the corner, there can be no bigger lie [than] that Pakistan won the war,\u201d he was reported to have said. \u201cWe lost terribly in the 1965 war.\u201dRaghavan, the Indian historian, said the focus on conflicts ignored the long history of dialogue and exchange between the two nations. \u201cThe warfare has always been contained, never all-out. Each time there is an episode of violence it is followed by an episode of engagement. There is always much good will on both sides and the reasons for that are as durable as the reasons for going to war.\u201dThe sentiment was not universally shared at the parade ground in Delhi.\u201cThese are bad people but we are not frightened of them. Why should we be when we always win?\u201d said Verma, as he quickened his pace to avoid missing the motorbike display team.", "tags": ["India", "Pakistan", "South and Central Asia", "World news"], "title": "India and Pakistan loudly commemorate the war they both 'won '"},{"date": "2015-09-17T21:13:45Z", "country": "india", "content": "Nebraska\u2019s attempt to import from India a drug needed to carry out executions months after the state legislature banned capital punishment in the state failed last month because of mishandled paperwork, according to BuzzFeed News. The news site acquired documents that said a shipment of sodium thiopental from India never left the country for Nebraska because of \u201cimproper or missing paperwork\u201d. The drug import is not approved by the Food and Drug Administration, which has warned the state that the order is illegal.Last month, the ACLU of Nebraska asked the US Attorney\u2019s office to investigate the state\u2019s \u201congoing efforts to obtain lethal injection drugs from a foreign source\u201d.Before Nebraska lawmakers voted to repeal the death penalty, state officials said in May that two of the three drugs needed to carry out lethal injections had been ordered. The state already possesses the third. Nebraska abolished the death penalty in May, after lawmakers overrode the governor\u2019s veto of a bill supported by a majority of legislators. As lawmakers pushed for an end to capital punishment, KETV NewsWatch 7 reported that Nebraska paid Harris Pharma $51,000 for the two drugs: sodium thiopental and pancuronium bromide.Nebraska Correctional Services spokesperson James Foster confirmed to Buzzfeed that the state had not been sent the drug but did not know why. FedEx said that the package was returned to the sender because the paperwork in India was incorrect. Foster did not respond to a query from The Guardian about why it was trying to important the drug. In June, the FDA sent a similar warning to Ohio, which had sought to import sodium thiopental into the United States. US states with capitol punishment have faced increasing difficulty obtaining drugs for use in execution since a boycott by European-based manufacturers. Some have turned to specialty compounding pharmacies, whose identities are kept secret by state laws. Others have sought to return to earlier methods of execution: the electric chair in Tennessee, and the firing squad in Utah.Nebraska is the first predominantly Republican state to end capital punishment since the 1970s. Death penalty supporters are pushing for a referendum on the bill to be included on the November 2016 ballot. ", "tags": ["Nebraska", "Capital punishment", "US news", "Ohio"], "title": "Nebraska\u2019s attempt to import lethal injection drugs from India failed"},{"date": "2015-09-16T09:36:51Z", "country": "india", "content": "The world is in awe of China\u2019s relentless capacity to produce gargantuan cities, each outdoing the most recent superlative that describes its predecessor. If Shenzhen and Shanghai are megacities, and the Pearl-River Delta a sprawling urban agglomeration, then what should we call the 130 million-strong Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei city-region the government is currently planning? A gigacity?While China just keeps building bigger and higher, India has also supersized its old colonial cities, following the centripetal model of dense cores and endless peripheries. White collar workers in Delhi or Mumbai, just as in Beijing or Shanghai, are pushed out to new dormitory towns, hours away from their jobs. A part of the Indian working class may have managed to remain close to their place of work, but at the price of being squeezed into insecure, under-serviced settlements. Millennium prophecies about the irrelevance of cities \u2013 thanks to new transport and communication technologies \u2013 have been buried along with countless urban utopias. Cities seem to be more central to the global economy than ever. For China and India, urbanisation and development have become quasi-synonymous. In 2012, China\u2019s real estate and construction industry accounted for 15% of the country\u2019s GDP. In India, Mumbai\u2019s represents about 20% of the country\u2019s GDP, and 60% of it is produced in urban areas. Yet, as far as country-wide urbanisation is concerned, India appears to be lagging behind. The urban population of both countries was 26% in 1990. While this ratio changed only marginally in India, it doubled in China. The UN predicts that it will take at least another 35 years for India\u2019s urban population to reach China\u2019s present 54% mark. By which time, the global giant will be respectably urbanised with three-quarters of its population living in cities and towns. India seems desperate to catch up with China when it comes to urbanisation. The government plans to create 100 or so \u201csmart cities\u201d, wired to the world and connected to each other via new airports and high-speed trains. New York\u2019s Bloomberg Philanthropies, among others, are advising the government on what being \u201csmart\u201d is all about when it comes to city planning. But is urban growth really comparable between India and China? And can the shift from rural to urban be expressed only in terms of residential statistics? One of the main differences between the two countries is the way they deal with internal migration. China has official restrictions on its workforce. It tries (and fails) to maintain its district boundaries through sharp control of movement. In contrast, India\u2019s working classes and service providers move from city to city, village to village, rural to urban areas with astounding fluidity and frequency.The urban population of China and India was 26% in 1990. The ratio has changed slightly in India: it's doubled in China The unacknowledged armature of pan-India\u2019s urbanity is its run-down railway network, which carries 9 billion passengers per year \u2013 four times as much as China\u2019s state of the art network does. This difference is partly explained by the price: the cheapest train ticket from Shanghai to Beijing (1,318 km in 12 hours) is about \u00a333; from Mumbai to Delhi (1,442 km in about 18 hours), it is just above \u00a33. Contrary to the common belief that people are simply moving from rural to urban areas, another scenario is playing out in India. Trains and buses going back to the hinterland are just as crowded as those going towards the big cities. There is massive multi-directional traffic of people moving perennially up and down the country. This movement is part of a deferred commuting pattern in which the village and the city are both active spaces in people\u2019s personal and professional lives.  It is typical for an urban worker in India to return home twice or three times a year \u2013 for family functions or to help with the farm during monsoons. Urban families with strong roots in villages have also diversified their sources of revenue and reinvested money there. Millions of small projects are taking place in India\u2019s villages as people build new homes, develop local infrastructure and invest in new technologies for farming and small-scale manufacturing.  With connectivity and infrastructure catching up, villages are turning into more than safety nets for rural-urban migrants. They are becoming parts of large urban systems, where many Indians project their future \u2013 even if that future is made of journeys back and forth. It is true that migrants to cities have contributed to India\u2019s urban growth. It is equally true that they have maintained ties with their native village homes. Family structures have adapted to manage long-distance relationships. Thanks to mobile technologies, running dual households is easier than ever before \u2013 and partly explains the enthusiastic absorption of this technology; indeed, 650 million Indians are slated to be smart phone owners in four years from now. Smart phones allow urban Indians to remain in touch with their rural homes, facilitate economic transactions and contribute to the diffusion of urban lifestyles all over the country. It is not just the settled middle-classes that are wired and mobile. The vast majority of workers and service providers, who sell ware on the streets and live in shanties, are also part of this process. A large, though unaccounted, share of the 24% urban dwellers who live in slum areas have kept active ties with their ancestral villages.  India\u2019s brand of \u201ccirculatory urbanism\u201d differs from the standard 20th century model of dominating cities and an endless periphery. Its networked habitats and lifestyles are not quite suburban or simplistically rural either, since dual households remain economically productive and socially relevant on both ends of the spectrum. The same person shifts worker status, slipping from farmer to driver, shopkeeper to manufacturer, hopping between activities and habitats \u2013 and confusing census data.  This is not to say that cities have become irrelevant. On the contrary, they remain key nodes in ever expanding regional and global networks. At some level, cities have always played that role. Mumbai grew as a colonial trading hub, where resources taken from the hinterlands where shipped to the rest of the world. What is new is the level of connectivity between rural and urban zones, generated by people\u2019s free movement and communication. These movements, which ultimately question classic notions of the urban and the rural, are an essential component of India\u2019s urbanity. This means that urbanisation can\u2019t be reduced to a milestone on a demographic chart.  In fact, it would make better sense for policies to forsake the arcane rural and urban lines of directing investment and recognise that India\u2019s urbanity lies on the points of connections between these abstractions. India is more networked than we care to acknowledge. A shift in perspective will help evolve a set of categories and projects that do greater justice to the emerging urban landscape in India. It is time we start conceiving of the urban as a realm that stretches far beyond the discrete unit of the city At present, census data tells us that the fastest urbanisation is happening in smaller towns and cities all across the sub-continent, which are yoked through active channels of mobility to large metropolitan hubs. However, these small and mid-size towns are not just growing in terms of population, but are active nodes that sit on various criss-crossing channels \u2013 linking villages and towns. Such towns have harnessed the increase in movement brought by advances in transport and communication over the last decades. Urban planners in India need to work with their flows and circulatory systems. For example, recognising the needs of a mobile population, and encouraging the production of affordable rental accommodation in cities in a more targeted way of reducing slums compared to most policies in practice today.  Factoring in how the to-and-fro movements of labour shape urban and rural landscapes through families that work as dispersed but connected units will go a long way in planning more appropriate infrastructure for the real needs of people everywhere.  In the long run, if we are at all serious about addressing environmental concerns and balancing different modern economic sectors \u2013 including the agrarian \u2013 in a labour-surplus economy, then remapping the interconnections between the rural and the urban will make it easier to achieve those objectives.  Related: Delhi Mumbai Corridor: how the world's largest infrastructure project is uprooting Indian farmers  It is time we start conceiving of the urban as a realm that stretches far beyond the discrete unit of the city \u2013 smart or otherwise. Most present policies will only create small enclaves of medieval style fort-cities, surrounded by vast expenses of undervalued habitats.  Instead of playing the catch-up game with China, and exhausting itself on the stationary treadmill of urban development, India should probably recognise the potential of its own brand of user-generated urbanism. Rather than high-speed, it may need to invest more in keeping trains and roads accessible to ordinary residents in villages and towns, as well as big cities.  It is time to get over an outdated image of cities as prime markers of urbanisation and progress in pure demographic terms. India may well be urbanising in ways that are potentially far more sustainable and contemporary than those it is trying to emulate.Matias Echanove and Rahul Srivastava are co-founders of Urbz and the Institute of Urbanology in Mumbai and Geneva. Follow Guardian Cities on Twitter and Facebook and join the discussion", "tags": ["Cities", "Urbanisation", "India", "China", "Asia Pacific", "South and Central Asia", "Beijing holidays", "Asia", "China holidays", "Travel", "Mumbai holidays", "World news", "India holidays"], "title": "Why India should reject China's obsession with bigger, denser megacities"},{"date": "2015-09-12T12:21:28Z", "country": "india", "content": "Two British tourists were killed and several more injured when a train derailed in the north of India on Saturday.A group of 37 British tourists \u2013 mainly in their 60s \u2013 were travelling on a narrow gauge \u201ctoy train\u201d that runs 60 miles through more than 100 tunnels and over dozens of viaducts to the historic hill resort of Shimla, in the foothills of the Himalayas.Anil Saxena, spokesman for Indian Railways, said the accident took place at 12.55pm, about two miles beyond the station of Kalka and 15 minutes into the journey.\u201cTwo coaches were derailed resulting in the deaths of two female passengers,\u201d said Saxena. Three others suffered serious injuries, while five more were discharged after treatment for cuts, bruises or simple fractures.A second official said the cause of the accident was still unclear.\u201cIt might have been a technical problem. There is a possibility that a stone or a rock suddenly fell on the track, or animals came, leading to the derailment. There is an inquiry,\u201d said Neeraj Sharma, a spokesman for the northern zone of India\u2019s sprawling railway network.Images broadcast on Indian TV networks showed carriages on a bend among thick vegetation on apparently flat land about 150 miles north of Delhi.The injured, who included three Indian nationals, were taken to hospital near the city of Chandigarh.Accidents occur frequently on Indian railways, which suffer from decades of under-investment and a shortage of trained staff.Earlier on Saturday, nine coaches of a train derailed in southern India, killing at least two people and leaving several injured.Despite ageing rolling stock, buckling tracks, wandering elephants and Maoist guerillas, Indian Railway\u2019s 1.25 million employees still run 17,000 trains carrying up to 25 million people every day.Raaja Bhasin, a Shimla-based historian who was guiding the tourists and travelling in the train, told the local Indian Express newspaper that the tragedy had taken \u201cjust a fraction of a second\u201d.\u201cTwo lost their lives and others narrowly survived. I had just taken a seat minutes before the accident. It was God\u2019s grace I was seated at that moment otherwise I wouldn\u2019t have been alive and talking to you,\u201d he said.The train, which had been chartered by a UK-based travel company, was composed of four luxury coaches and a single locomotive.Suresh Prabhu, India\u2019s railway minister, has ordered an investigation into the accident.The Foreign Office said it was urgently looking into the reports of the accident.A spokesman said: \u201cFollowing a train crash in [the northern Indian state of] Haryana, we are urgently looking into reports of British nationals affected and stand ready to provide consular support.\u201dShimla was the summer capital of the British Raj administrators in India, and remains a popular destination for tourists, both foreign and local.The Kalka to Shimla line is more than 100 years old.", "tags": ["India", "World news", "South and Central Asia", "Asia"], "title": "Two British tourists die in northern India train derailment"},{"date": "2015-09-27T12:28:56Z", "country": "india", "content": "India is to launch a mini Hubble-type space observatory, a major step forward for the emerging power\u2019s increasingly capable space programme.Last year, the south Asian nation became the first country to launch a successful Mars orbital mission on its first attempt. At \u00a350m, the robotic probe, which is still circling the red planet, cost a fraction of earlier similar missions by the US, Russia and European countries.The new observatory, dubbed the AstroSat, is due to be launched from the country\u2019s main space centre at Sriharikota in southern India on Monday. If it is successful, India will be the first state in the developing world to have placed its own telescope in space.\u201cThis is the first time we are launching a dedicated astronomy mission,\u201d said K Suryanarayana Sarma, project director of AstroSat at the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO). Related: India's Mars satellite successfully enters orbit, bringing country into space elite  \u201cThis is a unique mission because \u2026 we have a very wide band of astronomical observation with sophisticated instruments with good resolution and specifications,\u201d Sarma said. First conceived in 1996, the project was given the green light in 2004. It is believed to have cost about \u00a335m. One of the reasons for the decade-long delay is the complexities of one specific instrument, a telescope using x-rays that has 320 aluminium mirrors that need to be positioned with extreme accuracy. The instrument was developed in collaboration with the University of Leicester in the UK. Some commentators have questioned comparisons with the Hubble, launched by Nasa in 1990, which has become known for spectacular photographs of events in deep space. \u201cCalling [the] AstroSat \u2018India\u2019s Hubble\u2019 will imply that ISRO has reached that level of engineering capability when it has not. And making that reference repeatedly will only foster complacency about defining the scale and scope of future missions,\u201d wrote Vasudevan Mukunth, on Indian news website The Wire last week.  As well as being 10 times smaller than the Hubble, the AstroSat has a more limited lifespan of five years. This has however some advantages.\u201cWe intend a mission life of five years for the AstroSat. So the question of repairs, like the ones done by astronauts on the Hubble, doesn\u2019t arise,\u201d said Deviprasad Karnik, an ISRO spokesman. Indian scientists say their observatory has an unprecedented array of telescopes that will allow simultaneous data collection through different means. The mission will also be the first time the country will launch US satellites. The launch comes on the day Narendra Modi, the prime minister, is due to meet Barack Obama during a trip to the US. The successful launch of India\u2019s Mars orbiter last year came just days before Modi travelled to the US on his first trip after a landslide electoral victory. It led TV bulletins and filled front pages. The project aims to study the surface and mineral composition of Mars, and scan its atmosphere for methane, a chemical strongly tied to life on Earth. Modi wants to establish India as a bigger player in the \u00a3200bn space technology market, against stiff competition from neighbouring China with its bigger launchers. The Indian prime minister toured Silicon Valley this weekend, meeting CEOs of major tech firms and addressing a rally of Indian Americans in a bid to promote India as a nation of technological innovation and capabilities. \u201cWe have never launched an American satellite [before] \u2026 Politically and scientifically, India launching four American satellites marks the biggest step yet in Indo-US space collaboration,\u201d said Srinivas Laxman, a space science expert. Preparations to put an Indian in space are under way though there has been \u201cno approval from the government for the mission itself\u201d, said Karnik.  \u201cWe are preparing the physical technology. [A] man in space mission is not on the agenda at the moment,\u201d he added.", "tags": ["India", "Space", "Astronomy", "Hubble space telescope", "Science", "US news"], "title": "India to launch country's first space observatory"},{"date": "2015-08-31T03:39:52Z", "country": "india", "content": "If the tigers of Panna are under threat of being displaced by a dam, the tigers of nearby Kanha, Pench, and Navegaon Nagzira tiger reserves in the two central Indian states of Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra are in danger from a highway.The National Highways Authority of India proposes to widen a 50-km (31-mile) stretch of road to a four-lane divided highway connecting Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh, with Nagpur, Maharashtra. While allowing humans to hurtle between these two cities, the road slices two tiger corridors: Pench-Nagzira corridor in Maharashtra and the Pench-Kanha corridor in Madhya Pradesh. Although National Highway 7 (NH7) exists already, widening it will aggravate the problem it poses to wildlife. Central Indian forests hold about 33% of India\u2019s tigers, 688 of them.According to the National Tiger Conservation Authority, a tiger population needs at least 80 to 100 adults to be self-sustaining. None of the tiger reserves in central India host a viable tiger population independently. Corridors are essential for these reserves to sustain tigers and other wild animals. For example, the lack of corridors caused a native population of gaur to go extinct in Bandhavgarh National Park in 1997.Camera trapping, genetic analysis, and radio telemetry studies show these corridors are active animal routes. Tigers are not the only ones using them; gaur, leopards, sloth bears, and wild dogs are some of the other large mammals that disperse along these paths. The National Tiger Conservation Authority said widening the road would cause irreparable damage to tiger habitat and turned down the proposal.The Wildlife Institute of India declared the two corridors are essential for the genetic diversity of the large cats. WWF-India called NH7 a \u201cmajor barrier for animals near the Pench Tiger Reserve\u201d in a report \u2018Lifeline for tigers.\u2019 The National Board of Wildlife did not view the proposal favourably and neither did the Forest Advisory Committee. The Central Empowered Committee of the Supreme Court called for the road to be shut down.This opposition ought to have shut the lid on the proposal.A Times of India report of 20 September 2013 describing the potholed NH7 as \u2018Highway to hell\u2019 marked a turning point. The Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court jumped in, by initiating legal proceedings based on the news report. At first, it ordered the road to be re-paved, but later demanded the highway be upgraded, without realising forest and wildlife clearances are necessary. But even after two years and numerous press reports, the court insists it has the authority to unilaterally order the road to be widened.The Ministry of Environment and Forests gave initial environmental clearance in December 2013. In February 2015, the high court and state government issued permissions to the highways authority to knock down trees over a 10-km (6-mile) stretch of NH7.However, none of the permissions, whether issued by the high court, the ministry, or the state, were legally valid since they ran afoul of the Forest Conservation Act and the Wildlife Protection Act. Instead of evaluating the merits of the case and its impact on wildlife, the wildlife board hurriedly cleared the project on 18 August. It didn\u2019t follow its own guidelines on how to deal with roads passing through protected forests. The ministry will likely push through the clearance required under the Forest Conservation Act as well. After all, it has gained a reputation among environmentalists and conservationists for cursorily approving any project that requires forests to be destroyed.The Wildlife Institute of India, which had initially objected to the road widening, changed its stand. Presumably capitulating under pressure from the ministry, high court, and/or the highways authority, it agreed that the road could be widened as long as underpasses were built to allow passage of wildlife at the cost of rupees 750 crores (\u00a373.6m).The National Highways Authority grudgingly committed to nine elevated sections along the road for the safe passage of wild animals at a cost of rupees 100 crores (\u00a39.82m). On 5 May 2015, conservation organisations filed an appeal in the National Green Tribunal challenging the permissions granted by the ministry and state. The tribunal stayed all further work on the highway.In a bizarre situation, two judicial bodies are at conflict with each other. Justice Gavai of the Bombay High Court disparaged the tribunal \u201cYou [the petitioner] chose to approach some tribunal which has been created under some Act.\u201d Justice Swatanter Kumar, the Chairperson of the National Green Tribunal, questioned how the high court could have allowed felling of trees in the absence of legal compliance. While one demanded that trees be chopped as soon as possible, the other sought assurances that not a single tree be hacked.About 49.25 hectares (121.70 acres) of forests would have to be leveled for widening NH7. That may not sound like much, but a road creates an edge along which the forest frays slowly. Safe havens for wildlife shrink as the increased disturbance from roads pushes animals farther into the interior. More traffic brings more air, noise, and light pollution in areas that need to be protected.But wildlife activists fear that a wide, divided, slick highway through some of the best forests of central India would become a death trap for wild animals. Roadkills are a major concern. For instance, highway traffic through Bandipur National Park, Karnataka, is now limited to daylight hours to reduce the mortality of wild animals. Most importantly, if the road is widened now, the highways authority might seek to make it even wider in the future.None of this anxiety is necessary because there is an alternative.The Wildlife Trust of India proposed another existing highway as a substitute to NH7 in 2009. It is a mere 70 km (43.4 miles) longer than the road cutting through tiger corridors. At that time, the highways authority quibbled that it was a state highway and cannot be upgraded to national highway. But since then, it has not only upgraded it to national highway status, but widened NH69 to a four-lane carriageway. Wildlife conservation organisations, including Bombay Natural History Society and Wildlife Institute of India, support this alternate route.NH69 cuts through good forest at Sillewani Ghat for 11 km, but wildlife activists recognise the need for road connectivity and the greater importance of leaving NH7 alone. This could be a win-win situation since NH69 has already been made. It saves the highways authority rupees 100 crore in building underpasses in Maharashtra alone. Madhya Pradesh would also have to build such structures on its side of the border at rupees 860 crores (\u00a384.4m).Almost all agencies that ought to protect wild habitats and species - the ministry, the state, wildlife institute, and the tiger authority - currently appear to support the highways authority\u2019s proposal. The case now rests with the tribunal.So what is it going to be?A 70-km detour or the future of three tiger reserves?", "tags": ["Wildlife", "Animals", "Conservation", "Endangered habitats", "India", "Environment", "Endangered species", "South and Central Asia", "Trees and forests"], "title": "India: No country for wild tigers? | Janaki Lenin"},{"date": "2015-08-03T05:49:16Z", "country": "india", "content": "Heavy monsoon rains have killed more than 100 people in India in the past week and forced tens of thousands of people to take shelter in state-run relief camps, India\u2019s home ministry has said.A cyclone struck the worst-hit state of West Bengal, where 48 people have died and nearly 215,000 villagers have been taken to relief camps after heavy rains triggered flooding, the ministry statement said.More than 200 medical teams using 120 boats have so far distributed more than 400,000 drinking water pouches in an effort to prevent the outbreak of water-borne diseases, according to authorities.Heavy rains have also caused widespread flooding in Burma, where at least 27 people have died and four areas have been declared disaster zones. The UN has warned that the situation could get much worse.Another 28 deaths were reported from Rajasthan in western India where rescue workers evacuated nearly 1,000 people to higher ground.On Saturday, at least 20 people were swept away by a landslide that flattened up to 10 homes in Jourmol, a village in north-eastern Manipur state, a spokesman for the national disaster response force said on Sunday.The annual monsoon season in India stretches from June until the end of September causing deaths and severe damage to homes and food crops.", "tags": ["India", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Monsoon rains leave 100 dead in India"},{"date": "2015-09-29T12:12:33Z", "country": "india", "content": "Last week, 63 million people were cut off from internet and mobile phone access in Gujarat, India. This didn\u2019t stop Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg and Indian prime minister Narendra Modi proclaiming over the weekend that communications access and, in particular, internet access, is the next important step in development. Modi didn\u2019t seem bothered by the fact that, following mass demonstrations, a population the size of the UK lost all phone and internet communications for the second time in less than a month. The world barely noticed.India is not alone. In Syria, the internet is used as a weapon of war \u2013 the disconnection of communications plays a central role in the conflict. In the Democratic Republic of Congo, similarly, connections were cut following mass demonstrations against the government.And before anyone suggests that only less developed countries resort to drastic disconnection, similar measures have been discussed in case of an \u201cemergency\u201d in the US, UK and Germany. The British government discussed quite extensively whether to shut down various communication channels during the 2011 riots. Pakistan bears the dubious honour of leading the world in government-ordered communications shutdowns, with at least 24 large-scale disconnections since 2012\u00ad. Marked like few other nations by the global war on terror, even the highest ranks of government in Pakistan complain about the overwhelming power of the military. National security measures frequently go overboard, and the human rights of the populations affected are only insufficiently considered.Some 80% of people in Pakistan have mobile phone access. One in four holds a smartphone. When communications are disconnected, the economy is seriously affected, and mobility and social relations are severed. Neither ambulances nor fire departments can be contacted quickly. Despite the impressive resilience of the Pakistani people, the social consequences cannot be overlooked.A new research study between London, Islamabad and Berlin found that, when communications are disconnected, the same regions already affected by other forms of exclusion are the worst hit. Large political rallies, but also regions seen as leaning towards the Taliban, are the most frequently affected by shutdowns in Pakistan. Since society constitutes through communication, for these communities, prevention of communication also constitutes exclusion from society. This logic extends to the waves of refugees moving across Europe. The issue here is that people don\u2019t just need the internet to \u201cphone home\u201d \u2013 they need access to become part of European society. The internet is used to access education, entertainment and culture. It grounds social participation, and is the mechanism for accessing many key services. In the current crisis, the physical separation of refugees is augmented by digital separation.\u201cAll the internet. All the people. All the time.\u201d Nigerian web activist Nnenna Nwakanma\u2019s call to action is simple to state, but hard to accomplish. Every crisis offers a new excuse for restrictions, and every \u201cdevelopment problem\u201d invites post-colonial reflex. Take Internet.org, the initiative proudly championed by Facebook and partners. Facebook\u2019s offer \u2013 recently partly rebranded Free Basics, in an effort to take the sting out of controversy about walled gardens, privacy and security \u2013 has more to do with access to Facebook than to the internet, and is a clever advertising campaign for Facebook\u2019s rollout in emerging markets. But we\u2019ve yet to see any serious attempt, notwithstanding Zuckerberg\u2019s weekend celebrity appeal with Bono, to resolving deep challenges of universal access.Given this landscape, we shouldn\u2019t be surprised that we have left governments and corporations with the power to completely turn off the internet. Without the protection that accompanies the creation of public services \u2013 such as electricity or water \u00ad\u2013 access to the internet and telecommunications are in discretionary hands. This gives both Modi and Zuckerberg the ability to flip the switch. Rather than providing all the internet to all the people all the time, we\u2019re allowing a few powerful men to make the internet a commodity of their choosing. ", "tags": ["Facebook", "Internet", "Technology", "Social networking", "India", "Pakistan"], "title": "Internet access matters \u00ad\u00ad\u2013 will Facebook or India provide it?"},{"date": "2015-09-21T08:54:28Z", "country": "india", "content": "A man in India has died after being buried alive by workers who did not see him lying unconscious at the bottom of a pothole.Officials in Katni, in the central state of Madhya Pradesh, are investigating the incident and have promised compensation to his widow.The 45-year-old man, named as Latori Barman, was walking home from a fair when he fell into a large hole in the road, Indian media reported. \u201cIt was dark and there were no warning signs. He would have been walking in an inebriated condition when he fell into the pit between Udlana and Hata villages and lost consciousness. Workers must not have noticed him while filling the pothole with bitumen,\u201d an investigating officer told the Times of India. The newspaper added that the workers then used a heavy roller to flatten the surface. The accident \u201cwould have gone unnoticed had residents not discovered the man\u2019s arm sticking out from the tarred road\u201d, the paper said.Police have arrested several road workers.The death is the latest linked to India\u2019s potholes, also called \u201ckiller craters\u201d. A woman in her 20s died in the city of Bengaluru last week after the motorbike on which she was riding crashed, reportedly because of a pothole.In one Indian city, residents resorted to naming individual holes after prominent officials to draw attention to the poor road conditions.About 150,000 people die on Indian roads each year, with hundreds of thousands injured, often seriously. Most deaths are caused by poor driving, official statistics show.", "tags": ["India", "South and Central Asia", "World news"], "title": "Man dies after being buried in pothole in India"},{"date": "2015-09-20T14:04:13Z", "country": "india", "content": "The four helicopters trailing giant flags had passed an hour earlier; the tanks and fighter jets would come later. Now, it was the turn of a formation of sword-wielding, stamping, infantry in golden turbans to entertain the crowd packed into the grandstands halfway between the stately India Gate and the vast presidential palace in Delhi\u2019s centre.The Verma family \u2013 mother, father, son and daughter \u2013 had come from the eastern outskirts of the Indian capital to watch the show. \u201cIt was necessary to come. I am a proud Indian ... we have to remember our victories, our sacrifices. We have to remember what we can do, and what can be done. This will frighten some people and that is a good thing,\u201d said Priyaranjan Verma, 43, a finance manager for a freight firm.The \u201csome people\u201d he was referring to were the 190 million or so inhabitants of Pakistan, or at least their rulers.Sunday\u2019s parade marked the climax of a month of events in India commemorating the golden anniversary of the 1965 war with the neighbouring country. The partition of India had occurred 18 years before 1965, when the country gained independence from Britain. Pakistan and India have each claimed victory in the inconclusive 60s conflict, one of four they have fought. But over the decades both nations appear largely to have forgotten this war, with history books focusing on the more dramatic clashes of 1947, 1971 and 1999.It surprised some onlookers then when the government of Narendra Modi, the Hindu nationalist politician who won a landslide election last year after promising to bring economic development and make India \u201crespected\u201d, ordered a high-profile, month-long celebration of his nation\u2019s \u201cvictory\u201d in the 1965 war. The event is reported to have cost more than \u00a33m, and has included military displays in provincial towns, giant newspaper adverts, commemorative coins and stamps, as well as a team of naval personnel motorbiking 1,200 miles across India.Modi opened an exhibition in central Delhi devoted to the war, commenting that \u201cthe valour [and] sacrifice of our armed forces during the 1965 war remains etched in the memory of every Indian\u201d.The 60s conflict started when Pakistan fomented violence in the disputed Himalayan former princedom of Kashmir and ended with a UN-sponsored ceasefire followed by an exchange of captured territory. The war entailed fierce fighting, particularly between tank units, and it is thought both sides suffered more than 3,000 casualties.At the opening ceremony, Manohar Parrikar, India\u2019s defence minister, said the exhibition commemorated \u201cthe first major war that India won\u201d. He added: \u201cSome people raise the question whether India won, or was there a stalemate? Even as a nine-year-old kid I was of the firm opinion that India won hands down.\u201dSome historians\u2019 opinions differ. \u201cIt was inconclusive and that is recognised \u2026 even by those involved in the conflict. We actually gave up what little territory we seized and by no yardstick can it be claimed a victory,\u201d said Pallavi Raghavan, a specialist in relations between India and Pakistan, working at the Centre for Policy Research, in Delhi.However Dilip Hiro, a journalist and analyst, wrote in a recently published account of relations between India and Pakistan that \u201c[India] won by not losing \u2026 [Pakistan] gained nothing from a war it initiated\u201d.The war fought between the two states in 1971, however, was a conclusive defeat for Pakistan. A tentative peace process which followed a further confrontation in 1999 has been frozen since an attack in Mumbai by Pakistan-based militants in 2008. The attack in Mumbai, India\u2019s commercial capital, targeted luxury hotels, commuters, a Jewish centre and tourist sites. There have been several intensive exchanges of artillery fire in the past year, while India continues to blame Pakistan for unrest in Kashmir.Pakistan reacted to the celebrations in India by upgrading its own annual Defence Day, which traditionally marks the 1965 war. Normally a relatively low-key affair, the ceremony held on 6 September was transformed into a big television event, with parachute drops by special forces, air displays and exhibitions of military hardware at various sites around the country.At the main ceremony, at army headquarters in Rawalpindi, the army screened video re-enactments of key battles against Islamist militants.Pakistan\u2019s powerful army chief, Raheel Sharif, used the occasion to deliver a sharp warning to India that it would \u201cpay an unbearable cost\u201d if it ever resorted \u201cto any misadventure\u201d. He added: \u201cThe armed forces of Pakistan are fully capable of dealing with all types of internal and external threats, may it be conventional or sub-conventional, whether it is cold start or hot start. We are ready.\u201dHis speech was a riposte to the remarks of his opposite number, the general Dalbir Singh Suhag, who said India was ready for the \u201cswift, short, nature of future wars\u201d.India\u2019s army has long been planning for a \u201ccold start\u201d in any possible confrontation with Pakistan, which would allow it to quickly retaliate, fielding military units with little preparation and thus countering its smaller neighbour\u2019s ability to concentrate forces more rapidly.Sharif also struck a hard line on Kashmir, saying it could \u201cno longer be put on the back burner\u201d, although few foreign policy experts think Pakistan will ever gain control of the whole region.Amid the army\u2019s publicity drive there were signs of a surge of patriotism, even bellicosity, among sections of the public. A newspaper account of a lecture at Karachi University, at which the historian Akbar Zaidi questioned the popular narrative that Pakistan won the 1965 conflict, provoked a storm of anger on social media, with many alleging the newspaper was in the pocket of India.\u201cWith the celebration of the victory in the 1965 war round the corner, there can be no bigger lie [than] that Pakistan won the war,\u201d he was reported to have said. \u201cWe lost terribly in the 1965 war.\u201dRaghavan, the Indian historian, said the focus on conflicts ignored the long history of dialogue and exchange between the two nations. \u201cThe warfare has always been contained, never all-out. Each time there is an episode of violence it is followed by an episode of engagement. There is always much good will on both sides and the reasons for that are as durable as the reasons for going to war.\u201dThe sentiment was not universally shared at the parade ground in Delhi.\u201cThese are bad people but we are not frightened of them. Why should we be when we always win?\u201d said Verma, as he quickened his pace to avoid missing the motorbike display team.", "tags": ["India", "Pakistan", "South and Central Asia", "World news"], "title": "India and Pakistan loudly commemorate the war they both 'won '"},{"date": "2015-09-17T21:13:45Z", "country": "india", "content": "Nebraska\u2019s attempt to import from India a drug needed to carry out executions months after the state legislature banned capital punishment in the state failed last month because of mishandled paperwork, according to BuzzFeed News. The news site acquired documents that said a shipment of sodium thiopental from India never left the country for Nebraska because of \u201cimproper or missing paperwork\u201d. The drug import is not approved by the Food and Drug Administration, which has warned the state that the order is illegal.Last month, the ACLU of Nebraska asked the US Attorney\u2019s office to investigate the state\u2019s \u201congoing efforts to obtain lethal injection drugs from a foreign source\u201d.Before Nebraska lawmakers voted to repeal the death penalty, state officials said in May that two of the three drugs needed to carry out lethal injections had been ordered. The state already possesses the third. Nebraska abolished the death penalty in May, after lawmakers overrode the governor\u2019s veto of a bill supported by a majority of legislators. As lawmakers pushed for an end to capital punishment, KETV NewsWatch 7 reported that Nebraska paid Harris Pharma $51,000 for the two drugs: sodium thiopental and pancuronium bromide.Nebraska Correctional Services spokesperson James Foster confirmed to Buzzfeed that the state had not been sent the drug but did not know why. FedEx said that the package was returned to the sender because the paperwork in India was incorrect. Foster did not respond to a query from The Guardian about why it was trying to important the drug. In June, the FDA sent a similar warning to Ohio, which had sought to import sodium thiopental into the United States. US states with capitol punishment have faced increasing difficulty obtaining drugs for use in execution since a boycott by European-based manufacturers. Some have turned to specialty compounding pharmacies, whose identities are kept secret by state laws. Others have sought to return to earlier methods of execution: the electric chair in Tennessee, and the firing squad in Utah.Nebraska is the first predominantly Republican state to end capital punishment since the 1970s. Death penalty supporters are pushing for a referendum on the bill to be included on the November 2016 ballot. ", "tags": ["Nebraska", "Capital punishment", "US news", "Ohio"], "title": "Nebraska\u2019s attempt to import lethal injection drugs from India failed"},{"date": "2015-09-16T09:36:51Z", "country": "india", "content": "The world is in awe of China\u2019s relentless capacity to produce gargantuan cities, each outdoing the most recent superlative that describes its predecessor. If Shenzhen and Shanghai are megacities, and the Pearl-River Delta a sprawling urban agglomeration, then what should we call the 130 million-strong Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei city-region the government is currently planning? A gigacity?While China just keeps building bigger and higher, India has also supersized its old colonial cities, following the centripetal model of dense cores and endless peripheries. White collar workers in Delhi or Mumbai, just as in Beijing or Shanghai, are pushed out to new dormitory towns, hours away from their jobs. A part of the Indian working class may have managed to remain close to their place of work, but at the price of being squeezed into insecure, under-serviced settlements. Millennium prophecies about the irrelevance of cities \u2013 thanks to new transport and communication technologies \u2013 have been buried along with countless urban utopias. Cities seem to be more central to the global economy than ever. For China and India, urbanisation and development have become quasi-synonymous. In 2012, China\u2019s real estate and construction industry accounted for 15% of the country\u2019s GDP. In India, Mumbai\u2019s represents about 20% of the country\u2019s GDP, and 60% of it is produced in urban areas. Yet, as far as country-wide urbanisation is concerned, India appears to be lagging behind. The urban population of both countries was 26% in 1990. While this ratio changed only marginally in India, it doubled in China. The UN predicts that it will take at least another 35 years for India\u2019s urban population to reach China\u2019s present 54% mark. By which time, the global giant will be respectably urbanised with three-quarters of its population living in cities and towns. India seems desperate to catch up with China when it comes to urbanisation. The government plans to create 100 or so \u201csmart cities\u201d, wired to the world and connected to each other via new airports and high-speed trains. New York\u2019s Bloomberg Philanthropies, among others, are advising the government on what being \u201csmart\u201d is all about when it comes to city planning. But is urban growth really comparable between India and China? And can the shift from rural to urban be expressed only in terms of residential statistics? One of the main differences between the two countries is the way they deal with internal migration. China has official restrictions on its workforce. It tries (and fails) to maintain its district boundaries through sharp control of movement. In contrast, India\u2019s working classes and service providers move from city to city, village to village, rural to urban areas with astounding fluidity and frequency.The urban population of China and India was 26% in 1990. The ratio has changed slightly in India: it's doubled in China The unacknowledged armature of pan-India\u2019s urbanity is its run-down railway network, which carries 9 billion passengers per year \u2013 four times as much as China\u2019s state of the art network does. This difference is partly explained by the price: the cheapest train ticket from Shanghai to Beijing (1,318 km in 12 hours) is about \u00a333; from Mumbai to Delhi (1,442 km in about 18 hours), it is just above \u00a33. Contrary to the common belief that people are simply moving from rural to urban areas, another scenario is playing out in India. Trains and buses going back to the hinterland are just as crowded as those going towards the big cities. There is massive multi-directional traffic of people moving perennially up and down the country. This movement is part of a deferred commuting pattern in which the village and the city are both active spaces in people\u2019s personal and professional lives.  It is typical for an urban worker in India to return home twice or three times a year \u2013 for family functions or to help with the farm during monsoons. Urban families with strong roots in villages have also diversified their sources of revenue and reinvested money there. Millions of small projects are taking place in India\u2019s villages as people build new homes, develop local infrastructure and invest in new technologies for farming and small-scale manufacturing.  With connectivity and infrastructure catching up, villages are turning into more than safety nets for rural-urban migrants. They are becoming parts of large urban systems, where many Indians project their future \u2013 even if that future is made of journeys back and forth. It is true that migrants to cities have contributed to India\u2019s urban growth. It is equally true that they have maintained ties with their native village homes. Family structures have adapted to manage long-distance relationships. Thanks to mobile technologies, running dual households is easier than ever before \u2013 and partly explains the enthusiastic absorption of this technology; indeed, 650 million Indians are slated to be smart phone owners in four years from now. Smart phones allow urban Indians to remain in touch with their rural homes, facilitate economic transactions and contribute to the diffusion of urban lifestyles all over the country. It is not just the settled middle-classes that are wired and mobile. The vast majority of workers and service providers, who sell ware on the streets and live in shanties, are also part of this process. A large, though unaccounted, share of the 24% urban dwellers who live in slum areas have kept active ties with their ancestral villages.  India\u2019s brand of \u201ccirculatory urbanism\u201d differs from the standard 20th century model of dominating cities and an endless periphery. Its networked habitats and lifestyles are not quite suburban or simplistically rural either, since dual households remain economically productive and socially relevant on both ends of the spectrum. The same person shifts worker status, slipping from farmer to driver, shopkeeper to manufacturer, hopping between activities and habitats \u2013 and confusing census data.  This is not to say that cities have become irrelevant. On the contrary, they remain key nodes in ever expanding regional and global networks. At some level, cities have always played that role. Mumbai grew as a colonial trading hub, where resources taken from the hinterlands where shipped to the rest of the world. What is new is the level of connectivity between rural and urban zones, generated by people\u2019s free movement and communication. These movements, which ultimately question classic notions of the urban and the rural, are an essential component of India\u2019s urbanity. This means that urbanisation can\u2019t be reduced to a milestone on a demographic chart.  In fact, it would make better sense for policies to forsake the arcane rural and urban lines of directing investment and recognise that India\u2019s urbanity lies on the points of connections between these abstractions. India is more networked than we care to acknowledge. A shift in perspective will help evolve a set of categories and projects that do greater justice to the emerging urban landscape in India. It is time we start conceiving of the urban as a realm that stretches far beyond the discrete unit of the city At present, census data tells us that the fastest urbanisation is happening in smaller towns and cities all across the sub-continent, which are yoked through active channels of mobility to large metropolitan hubs. However, these small and mid-size towns are not just growing in terms of population, but are active nodes that sit on various criss-crossing channels \u2013 linking villages and towns. Such towns have harnessed the increase in movement brought by advances in transport and communication over the last decades. Urban planners in India need to work with their flows and circulatory systems. For example, recognising the needs of a mobile population, and encouraging the production of affordable rental accommodation in cities in a more targeted way of reducing slums compared to most policies in practice today.  Factoring in how the to-and-fro movements of labour shape urban and rural landscapes through families that work as dispersed but connected units will go a long way in planning more appropriate infrastructure for the real needs of people everywhere.  In the long run, if we are at all serious about addressing environmental concerns and balancing different modern economic sectors \u2013 including the agrarian \u2013 in a labour-surplus economy, then remapping the interconnections between the rural and the urban will make it easier to achieve those objectives.  Related: Delhi Mumbai Corridor: how the world's largest infrastructure project is uprooting Indian farmers  It is time we start conceiving of the urban as a realm that stretches far beyond the discrete unit of the city \u2013 smart or otherwise. Most present policies will only create small enclaves of medieval style fort-cities, surrounded by vast expenses of undervalued habitats.  Instead of playing the catch-up game with China, and exhausting itself on the stationary treadmill of urban development, India should probably recognise the potential of its own brand of user-generated urbanism. Rather than high-speed, it may need to invest more in keeping trains and roads accessible to ordinary residents in villages and towns, as well as big cities.  It is time to get over an outdated image of cities as prime markers of urbanisation and progress in pure demographic terms. India may well be urbanising in ways that are potentially far more sustainable and contemporary than those it is trying to emulate.Matias Echanove and Rahul Srivastava are co-founders of Urbz and the Institute of Urbanology in Mumbai and Geneva. Follow Guardian Cities on Twitter and Facebook and join the discussion", "tags": ["Cities", "Urbanisation", "India", "China", "Asia Pacific", "South and Central Asia", "Beijing holidays", "Asia", "China holidays", "Travel", "Mumbai holidays", "World news", "India holidays"], "title": "Why India should reject China's obsession with bigger, denser megacities"},{"date": "2015-09-12T12:21:28Z", "country": "india", "content": "Two British tourists were killed and several more injured when a train derailed in the north of India on Saturday.A group of 37 British tourists \u2013 mainly in their 60s \u2013 were travelling on a narrow gauge \u201ctoy train\u201d that runs 60 miles through more than 100 tunnels and over dozens of viaducts to the historic hill resort of Shimla, in the foothills of the Himalayas.Anil Saxena, spokesman for Indian Railways, said the accident took place at 12.55pm, about two miles beyond the station of Kalka and 15 minutes into the journey.\u201cTwo coaches were derailed resulting in the deaths of two female passengers,\u201d said Saxena. Three others suffered serious injuries, while five more were discharged after treatment for cuts, bruises or simple fractures.A second official said the cause of the accident was still unclear.\u201cIt might have been a technical problem. There is a possibility that a stone or a rock suddenly fell on the track, or animals came, leading to the derailment. There is an inquiry,\u201d said Neeraj Sharma, a spokesman for the northern zone of India\u2019s sprawling railway network.Images broadcast on Indian TV networks showed carriages on a bend among thick vegetation on apparently flat land about 150 miles north of Delhi.The injured, who included three Indian nationals, were taken to hospital near the city of Chandigarh.Accidents occur frequently on Indian railways, which suffer from decades of under-investment and a shortage of trained staff.Earlier on Saturday, nine coaches of a train derailed in southern India, killing at least two people and leaving several injured.Despite ageing rolling stock, buckling tracks, wandering elephants and Maoist guerillas, Indian Railway\u2019s 1.25 million employees still run 17,000 trains carrying up to 25 million people every day.Raaja Bhasin, a Shimla-based historian who was guiding the tourists and travelling in the train, told the local Indian Express newspaper that the tragedy had taken \u201cjust a fraction of a second\u201d.\u201cTwo lost their lives and others narrowly survived. I had just taken a seat minutes before the accident. It was God\u2019s grace I was seated at that moment otherwise I wouldn\u2019t have been alive and talking to you,\u201d he said.The train, which had been chartered by a UK-based travel company, was composed of four luxury coaches and a single locomotive.Suresh Prabhu, India\u2019s railway minister, has ordered an investigation into the accident.The Foreign Office said it was urgently looking into the reports of the accident.A spokesman said: \u201cFollowing a train crash in [the northern Indian state of] Haryana, we are urgently looking into reports of British nationals affected and stand ready to provide consular support.\u201dShimla was the summer capital of the British Raj administrators in India, and remains a popular destination for tourists, both foreign and local.The Kalka to Shimla line is more than 100 years old.", "tags": ["India", "World news", "South and Central Asia", "Asia"], "title": "Two British tourists die in northern India train derailment"},{"date": "2015-09-09T16:16:11Z", "country": "india", "content": "The Saudi Arabian embassy in India has denied allegations that one of its senior diplomats kept two domestic servants captive in a flat where they were repeatedly gang-raped.Police raided an apartment in Gurgaon, a satellite town of the capital, Delhi, on Monday and freed the two women after receiving a tipoff from a local NGO, local media reported.Both women were from remote rural areas of Nepal and had been sent to Delhi this year by agents in their home country who had promised them well-paid jobs in the Gulf, campaigners said. Vijay Lama, an NGO worker involved in the case, said the pair had spent two weeks in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, before being brought back to Delhi by their employer, a senior diplomat at the kingdom\u2019s embassy to India. The abuse is said to have started on their return to India and continued until the women, aged 20 and 40, were seen by a newly recruited domestic servant who told campaigners who then informed authorities, according to police.\u201cThese women were held in [a] seven-star living condominium \u2026 for the past one-and-a-half months. The flat owner, reportedly a Saudi national, used to sexually assault the victims,\u201d Rajesh Kumar, an assistant commissioner of police in Gurgaon, told the local Mail Today newspaper. The two women flew back to Nepal on Wednesday night.Police have launched an official investigation into offences under laws on gang-rape, rape, \u201cunnatural sex\u201d and abduction. In statements before a local magistrate, the women claimed to have been raped first by their employer then by up to six men at once, to have been denied food and drinking water, and to have been threatened with violence. They repeated their claims to local media.The Saudi embassy in Delhi dismissed the allegations as \u201ccompletely false\u201d and \u201ccontrary to facts in our possession\u201d, the Indian news agency IANS reported. No arrests have been made. Trafficking in south Asia is a major problem, with Gulf countries a growing destination for networks. Many victims come from Nepal, though others are Indian. In July, police at Delhi\u2019s main airport detained two airline staff and two suspected traffickers. They also took 21 young Nepalese women into their care, seven from the airport itself \u2013 where they were being led onto a flight to Dubai \u2013 and the rest from a hotel nearby. Most of the women were from areas devastated by April\u2019s earthquake in Nepal.Lama said the two women were part of a group of more than 30 brought by agents from Kathmandu this year and sent to the Gulf. The whereabouts of other members of the group were unknown.", "tags": ["Saudi Arabia", "India", "Middle East and North Africa", "South and Central Asia", "World news"], "title": "Saudi Arabian diplomat in India accused of sexually abusing servants"},{"date": "2015-10-02T06:57:24Z", "country": "india", "content": "India, the world\u2019s third biggest greenhouse gas emitter, has pledged to source 40% of its electricity from renewable and other low-carbon sources by 2030.It is the last major economy, following 140 other countries including China, the US and the EU, to submit a climate change plan to the UN before international talks to reach a deal on tackling global warming in Paris this December.Campaigners welcomed the commitment to cut the \u201cemissions intensity\u201d of its economy \u2013 a ratio of carbon emissions per unit of GDP \u2013 by up to 35% by 2030. India\u2019s population of 1.2 billion, about 363 million of whom live in poverty, is projected to grow to 1.5 billion by 2030. \u201cIt is estimated that more than half of India of 2030 is yet to be built,\u201d India\u2019s submission claimed.The country has previously pledged an emissions intensity cut of up to 25% by 2020.Prakash Javadekar, India\u2019s environment minister, said: \u201cThough India is not part of the problem, it wants to be part of the solution. Our historical cumulative emission as of today is below 3%.\u201d Related: Coal is not the answer to India's energy poverty, whatever Tony Abbott says | EAS Sarma In a speech in New York, he referenced the pope\u2019s address to the UN last week and emphasised that while India was a big emitter, it was responsible for less carbon pollution than many developed countries since the industrial revolution. \u201cThe developed world must take moral responsibility for the state of the world today. The pope has also mentioned that the huge consumption of the developed world has repercussions on the developing world,\u201d Javadekar said.India\u2019s submission to the UN, known as its Intended Nationally Determined Contribution (INDC), focuses on clean energy, including solar power, which the prime minister, Narendra Modi, has already strongly backed. It also promised to plant more forests by 2030 to absorb carbon emissions.Modi has repeatedly said India would not accept constraints on its development as part of any climate deal. Unlike China\u2019s submission to the UN in June, India\u2019s does not spell out when its emissions might peak.Most environment groups and thinktanks said the plan, which was submitted to the UN late on Thursday, was good and recognised the impacts global warming would have on India.Rhea Suh, the president of the US-based Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC), said: \u201cIndia\u2019s strong climate plan offers a comprehensive approach to curb the worst impacts of climate change.\u201dGermana Canzi, an analyst at UK-based Energy and Climate Intelligence Unit, hailed India\u2019s pledge as significant and said: \u201cThe path of that India will now take in its development is extremely important for the future of the climate, particularly as the country is set to surpass China to become the world\u2019s most populous country by 2028, with 1.45 billion people.\u201dNitin Pandit, CEO of the World Resources Institute in India, said: \u201cAs one of the most vulnerable countries to climate change, India recognises the domestic benefits of confronting this issue. Its climate plan does a good job combining opportunities to reduce emissions in the near term, and it includes clear goals to restore landscapes that will bring long-term benefits.\u201dBut Durwood Zaelke, a climate change expert and long-time campaigner on the need to phase out climate-changing gases such as HFCs as part of the effort against global warming, said India \u201ccould do much better\u201d, and \u201ceasily\u201d, if it agreed to phase out HFCs, which are used in air conditioning. Unlike the largely dry language of submissions by the US and EU, India\u2019s contains colourful passages explaining its attitude towards the environment, citing its long tradition of a harmonious relationship between man and nature. Mahatma Gandhi is invoked several times, including his comment that \u201cEarth has enough resources to meet people\u2019s needs, but will never have enough to satisfy people\u2019s greed.\u201dThe Philippines also made an informal indication of its plans to cut its carbon emissions by 70% by 2030 but only if it receives financial assistance, a presidential aide told Reuters news agency on Friday.An analysis of 140 countries\u2019 pledges to the UN so far found this week that they would see temperatures rise to 2.7C above pre-industrial levels by 2100. Governments at previous climate talks have committed to holding rises to 2C.The quest for a deal in Paris is intensifying, according to Laurence Tubiana, the French ambassador for climate change, speaking during a Google hangout on Friday.She said that countries must come up with adequate emissions reductions, and that all countries - including the poorest - must be involved in the deal. An additional pre-meeting will also take place in Paris two weeks before the actual summit which starts on 30 November, she confirmed, in an attempt to iron out any remaining difficult issues in advance.\u2022 Additional reporting by Fiona Harvey", "tags": ["Climate change", "India", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Renewable energy", "COP 21: UN climate change conference | Paris", "Energy", "Environment", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Global climate talks", "Nuclear power", "Coal", "Fossil fuels"], "title": "India unveils climate change plan"},{"date": "2015-10-02T06:57:24Z", "country": "india", "content": "India, the world\u2019s third biggest greenhouse gas emitter, has pledged to source 40% of its electricity from renewable and other low-carbon sources by 2030.It is the last major economy, following 140 other countries including China, the US and the EU, to submit a climate change plan to the UN before international talks to reach a deal on tackling global warming in Paris this December.Campaigners welcomed the commitment to cut the \u201cemissions intensity\u201d of its economy \u2013 a ratio of carbon emissions per unit of GDP \u2013 by up to 35% by 2030. India\u2019s population of 1.2 billion, about 363 million of whom live in poverty, is projected to grow to 1.5 billion by 2030. \u201cIt is estimated that more than half of India of 2030 is yet to be built,\u201d India\u2019s submission claimed.The country has previously pledged an emissions intensity cut of up to 25% by 2020.Prakash Javadekar, India\u2019s environment minister, said: \u201cThough India is not part of the problem, it wants to be part of the solution. Our historical cumulative emission as of today is below 3%.\u201d Related: Coal is not the answer to India's energy poverty, whatever Tony Abbott says | EAS Sarma In a speech in New York, he referenced the pope\u2019s address to the UN last week and emphasised that while India was a big emitter, it was responsible for less carbon pollution than many developed countries since the industrial revolution. \u201cThe developed world must take moral responsibility for the state of the world today. The pope has also mentioned that the huge consumption of the developed world has repercussions on the developing world,\u201d Javadekar said.India\u2019s submission to the UN, known as its Intended Nationally Determined Contribution (INDC), focuses on clean energy, including solar power, which the prime minister, Narendra Modi, has already strongly backed. It also promised to plant more forests by 2030 to absorb carbon emissions.Modi has repeatedly said India would not accept constraints on its development as part of any climate deal. Unlike China\u2019s submission to the UN in June, India\u2019s does not spell out when its emissions might peak.Most environment groups and thinktanks said the plan, which was submitted to the UN late on Thursday, was good and recognised the impacts global warming would have on India.Rhea Suh, the president of the US-based Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC), said: \u201cIndia\u2019s strong climate plan offers a comprehensive approach to curb the worst impacts of climate change.\u201dGermana Canzi, an analyst at UK-based Energy and Climate Intelligence Unit, hailed India\u2019s pledge as significant and said: \u201cThe path of that India will now take in its development is extremely important for the future of the climate, particularly as the country is set to surpass China to become the world\u2019s most populous country by 2028, with 1.45 billion people.\u201dNitin Pandit, CEO of the World Resources Institute in India, said: \u201cAs one of the most vulnerable countries to climate change, India recognises the domestic benefits of confronting this issue. Its climate plan does a good job combining opportunities to reduce emissions in the near term, and it includes clear goals to restore landscapes that will bring long-term benefits.\u201dBut Durwood Zaelke, a climate change expert and long-time campaigner on the need to phase out climate-changing gases such as HFCs as part of the effort against global warming, said India \u201ccould do much better\u201d, and \u201ceasily\u201d, if it agreed to phase out HFCs, which are used in air conditioning. Unlike the largely dry language of submissions by the US and EU, India\u2019s contains colourful passages explaining its attitude towards the environment, citing its long tradition of a harmonious relationship between man and nature. Mahatma Gandhi is invoked several times, including his comment that \u201cEarth has enough resources to meet people\u2019s needs, but will never have enough to satisfy people\u2019s greed.\u201dThe Philippines also made an informal indication of its plans to cut its carbon emissions by 70% by 2030 but only if it receives financial assistance, a presidential aide told Reuters news agency on Friday.An analysis of 140 countries\u2019 pledges to the UN so far found this week that they would see temperatures rise to 2.7C above pre-industrial levels by 2100. Governments at previous climate talks have committed to holding rises to 2C.The quest for a deal in Paris is intensifying, according to Laurence Tubiana, the French ambassador for climate change, speaking during a Google hangout on Friday.She said that countries must come up with adequate emissions reductions, and that all countries - including the poorest - must be involved in the deal. An additional pre-meeting will also take place in Paris two weeks before the actual summit which starts on 30 November, she confirmed, in an attempt to iron out any remaining difficult issues in advance.\u2022 Additional reporting by Fiona Harvey", "tags": ["Climate change", "India", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Renewable energy", "COP 21: UN climate change conference | Paris", "Energy", "Environment", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Global climate talks", "Nuclear power", "Coal", "Fossil fuels"], "title": "India unveils climate change plan"},{"date": "2015-10-24T05:45:11Z", "country": "india", "content": "The white dome of the Taj Mahal glows pale orange at dawn as hundreds of tourists scuffle towards the great mausoleum. My wife, son, mother and I arrive early to witness the sunrise, to beat the heat and the exhausting crowds, and to touch the marble walls while they are still cool. Like countless visitors before us, we have our photograph taken in front of the Taj with postcard precision. Our smiles suggest a joy in our own adventures.Later that day we fly home to Bangalore in the south, where my family and I have been living. When the sun rises the following day, we find my mother lying dead on the floor of our flat.With the help of our extraordinary neighbours, a colonel in the Indian army and his wife, the panic of not knowing what steps to take with a dead relative in India is stilled, and within minutes friends and neighbours offer us solace. They knew we\u2019d been travelling with my mother and, to a person, their first words to us are, \u201cShe had a good death.\u201dI\u2019d lost loved ones before, most after long, painful illnesses with lingering spells in hospitals draining them of spirit and vigour. I didn\u2019t believe there was such a thing as a good death. But if I\u2019d known my mother was going to die on that sunny Sunday morning in February, I\u2019d probably have hoped it turned out exactly like it did.My mother, Kristine, had never had any desire to see India. She lived in Toronto, Canada, and the thought of visiting the dusty, crowded chaos of the Asian sub-continent was about as appealing to her as eating a five-alarm prawn curry for breakfast every morning. But as soon as I told her we planned to live for two years in India, she asked when it would be convenient for her to visit.She first travelled to Bangalore to see us in January, 2014, and we took her to Kerala for a backwater houseboat cruise, a delightful beach holiday on the Arabian Sea and a few days in ancient Kochi. Like so many other westerners, my mother was changed by India \u2013 she wrote in her journal that she was no longer afraid, feeling perfectly capable of flagging down an auto-rickshaw by herself and wishing she could share her new love of the country with those who would never get to see it \u2013 shedding her earlier apprehensions and anxious to return.For her second visit a year later, we planned a thrilling two weeks through Rajasthan, home of Mughal empires, distinctive art and architecture. This time she arrived excited and eager.On her last morning, she saw the Taj\u00a0Mahal at sunrise.While many senior citizens scramble\u00a0to meet the demands of their bucket list, Kristine crossed off items that she didn\u2019t even know were on a list, her joy\u00a0greater for the surprises.I knew my mother wanted to be cremated. There are better ways of using precious earth, she\u2019d told me, than burying people in it. And though she might have been happy to have her ashes left in India, it seemed only right that I take them home to Canada to scatter with all of her family present. Besides, it\u2019s easier to transport a small urn than a complete body.A cremation, it turns out, is easy to arrange in India where just obtaining a sim card requires a thick sheaf of paperwork, photo ID and the patience of a saint. It\u2019s also far more rewarding.At the crematorium, I sat with my mother\u2019s body in a quiet tiled room as we waited our turn \u2013 it was a busy day for cremations. Outside the window I heard crying and shouting and singing. The sounds of sadness were mixed with the unmistakable bustle of a collective, accompanied by the floral aromas of burning incense and garlands blanketing the white-bearded man\u2019s body, which was being washed by loved ones. This group was sad and happy, joyously celebrating a life while offering their shared grief to whomever was listening.Looking back at my mother lying there, covered discreetly with a plain white sheet, I thought something was missing. The Indian mourners outside grieved openly under the bright sun, celebrating despite their sorrow. Inside, it was solemn and melancholy. We found some flowers to place over and around her, allowing Kristine to end her bodily existence in a way that she surely would have appreciated since becoming so enraptured with the humanity of India.My friends and I carried her to the oven. I watched her body begin to burn before the door clanged shut.This never could have happened in the society in which I\u2019d grown up. My culture\u2019s habits in dealing with death are private, behind-the-scenes, all arrangements taken care of. If our loved ones are laid out for us to view, they are made beautiful. Funerals are, traditionally, solemn, mournful and gloomy occasions marked by kind reflections and \u201crespectful\u201d whispers. We don\u2019t want to risk offending the mourners or, even worse, the deceased.And when the bereaved are overcome by grief, we don\u2019t know how to react because we can\u2019t stand seeing people in pain. We want them to stop crying, stop wailing, stop sinking deeper and deeper into their own misery because we\u2019re sure that will make them feel better. But really we\u2019re just trying to make it easier for ourselves.With my mother\u2019s good death, accompanied by the celebratory way we dealt with her body, those of us who had lost her were given the permission to find happiness from the end of an extraordinary life. If I learned anything from my fellow Indian mourners, it\u2019s that it\u2019s much easier to be sad when there is joy.\u201cIt was all worth it,\u201d Kristine had said, looking out over the Yamuna river that arcs quietly behind the Taj like a swooping brush-stroke.It wasn\u2019t just the trek through the desert on camels, trains and bicycles, scaling hilltop forts and palaces, waking up before dawn and driving through the dark to the Taj that was worth it. To her, at that moment, everything in her life was worth it. And she\u2019d been able to share the whole adventure with her family.Jon Magidsohn\u2019s book, Immortal Highway, will be published shortly by Iguana. jonmagidsohn.com/memoir/", "tags": ["Family", "Death and dying", "Parents and parenting", "Bereavement", "Life and style"], "title": "My mother\u2019s good death in India"},{"date": "2015-10-02T06:57:24Z", "country": "india", "content": "India, the world\u2019s third biggest greenhouse gas emitter, has pledged to source 40% of its electricity from renewable and other low-carbon sources by 2030.It is the last major economy, following 140 other countries including China, the US and the EU, to submit a climate change plan to the UN before international talks to reach a deal on tackling global warming in Paris this December.Campaigners welcomed the commitment to cut the \u201cemissions intensity\u201d of its economy \u2013 a ratio of carbon emissions per unit of GDP \u2013 by up to 35% by 2030. India\u2019s population of 1.2 billion, about 363 million of whom live in poverty, is projected to grow to 1.5 billion by 2030. \u201cIt is estimated that more than half of India of 2030 is yet to be built,\u201d India\u2019s submission claimed.The country has previously pledged an emissions intensity cut of up to 25% by 2020.Prakash Javadekar, India\u2019s environment minister, said: \u201cThough India is not part of the problem, it wants to be part of the solution. Our historical cumulative emission as of today is below 3%.\u201d Related: Coal is not the answer to India's energy poverty, whatever Tony Abbott says | EAS Sarma In a speech in New York, he referenced the pope\u2019s address to the UN last week and emphasised that while India was a big emitter, it was responsible for less carbon pollution than many developed countries since the industrial revolution. \u201cThe developed world must take moral responsibility for the state of the world today. The pope has also mentioned that the huge consumption of the developed world has repercussions on the developing world,\u201d Javadekar said.India\u2019s submission to the UN, known as its Intended Nationally Determined Contribution (INDC), focuses on clean energy, including solar power, which the prime minister, Narendra Modi, has already strongly backed. It also promised to plant more forests by 2030 to absorb carbon emissions.Modi has repeatedly said India would not accept constraints on its development as part of any climate deal. Unlike China\u2019s submission to the UN in June, India\u2019s does not spell out when its emissions might peak.Most environment groups and thinktanks said the plan, which was submitted to the UN late on Thursday, was good and recognised the impacts global warming would have on India.Rhea Suh, the president of the US-based Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC), said: \u201cIndia\u2019s strong climate plan offers a comprehensive approach to curb the worst impacts of climate change.\u201dGermana Canzi, an analyst at UK-based Energy and Climate Intelligence Unit, hailed India\u2019s pledge as significant and said: \u201cThe path of that India will now take in its development is extremely important for the future of the climate, particularly as the country is set to surpass China to become the world\u2019s most populous country by 2028, with 1.45 billion people.\u201dNitin Pandit, CEO of the World Resources Institute in India, said: \u201cAs one of the most vulnerable countries to climate change, India recognises the domestic benefits of confronting this issue. Its climate plan does a good job combining opportunities to reduce emissions in the near term, and it includes clear goals to restore landscapes that will bring long-term benefits.\u201dBut Durwood Zaelke, a climate change expert and long-time campaigner on the need to phase out climate-changing gases such as HFCs as part of the effort against global warming, said India \u201ccould do much better\u201d, and \u201ceasily\u201d, if it agreed to phase out HFCs, which are used in air conditioning. Unlike the largely dry language of submissions by the US and EU, India\u2019s contains colourful passages explaining its attitude towards the environment, citing its long tradition of a harmonious relationship between man and nature. Mahatma Gandhi is invoked several times, including his comment that \u201cEarth has enough resources to meet people\u2019s needs, but will never have enough to satisfy people\u2019s greed.\u201dThe Philippines also made an informal indication of its plans to cut its carbon emissions by 70% by 2030 but only if it receives financial assistance, a presidential aide told Reuters news agency on Friday.An analysis of 140 countries\u2019 pledges to the UN so far found this week that they would see temperatures rise to 2.7C above pre-industrial levels by 2100. Governments at previous climate talks have committed to holding rises to 2C.The quest for a deal in Paris is intensifying, according to Laurence Tubiana, the French ambassador for climate change, speaking during a Google hangout on Friday.She said that countries must come up with adequate emissions reductions, and that all countries - including the poorest - must be involved in the deal. An additional pre-meeting will also take place in Paris two weeks before the actual summit which starts on 30 November, she confirmed, in an attempt to iron out any remaining difficult issues in advance.\u2022 Additional reporting by Fiona Harvey", "tags": ["Climate change", "India", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Renewable energy", "COP 21: UN climate change conference | Paris", "Energy", "Environment", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Global climate talks", "Nuclear power", "Coal", "Fossil fuels"], "title": "India unveils climate change plan"},{"date": "2015-10-24T05:45:11Z", "country": "india", "content": "The white dome of the Taj Mahal glows pale orange at dawn as hundreds of tourists scuffle towards the great mausoleum. My wife, son, mother and I arrive early to witness the sunrise, to beat the heat and the exhausting crowds, and to touch the marble walls while they are still cool. Like countless visitors before us, we have our photograph taken in front of the Taj with postcard precision. Our smiles suggest a joy in our own adventures.Later that day we fly home to Bangalore in the south, where my family and I have been living. When the sun rises the following day, we find my mother lying dead on the floor of our flat.With the help of our extraordinary neighbours, a colonel in the Indian army and his wife, the panic of not knowing what steps to take with a dead relative in India is stilled, and within minutes friends and neighbours offer us solace. They knew we\u2019d been travelling with my mother and, to a person, their first words to us are, \u201cShe had a good death.\u201dI\u2019d lost loved ones before, most after long, painful illnesses with lingering spells in hospitals draining them of spirit and vigour. I didn\u2019t believe there was such a thing as a good death. But if I\u2019d known my mother was going to die on that sunny Sunday morning in February, I\u2019d probably have hoped it turned out exactly like it did.My mother, Kristine, had never had any desire to see India. She lived in Toronto, Canada, and the thought of visiting the dusty, crowded chaos of the Asian sub-continent was about as appealing to her as eating a five-alarm prawn curry for breakfast every morning. But as soon as I told her we planned to live for two years in India, she asked when it would be convenient for her to visit.She first travelled to Bangalore to see us in January, 2014, and we took her to Kerala for a backwater houseboat cruise, a delightful beach holiday on the Arabian Sea and a few days in ancient Kochi. Like so many other westerners, my mother was changed by India \u2013 she wrote in her journal that she was no longer afraid, feeling perfectly capable of flagging down an auto-rickshaw by herself and wishing she could share her new love of the country with those who would never get to see it \u2013 shedding her earlier apprehensions and anxious to return.For her second visit a year later, we planned a thrilling two weeks through Rajasthan, home of Mughal empires, distinctive art and architecture. This time she arrived excited and eager.On her last morning, she saw the Taj\u00a0Mahal at sunrise.While many senior citizens scramble\u00a0to meet the demands of their bucket list, Kristine crossed off items that she didn\u2019t even know were on a list, her joy\u00a0greater for the surprises.I knew my mother wanted to be cremated. There are better ways of using precious earth, she\u2019d told me, than burying people in it. And though she might have been happy to have her ashes left in India, it seemed only right that I take them home to Canada to scatter with all of her family present. Besides, it\u2019s easier to transport a small urn than a complete body.A cremation, it turns out, is easy to arrange in India where just obtaining a sim card requires a thick sheaf of paperwork, photo ID and the patience of a saint. It\u2019s also far more rewarding.At the crematorium, I sat with my mother\u2019s body in a quiet tiled room as we waited our turn \u2013 it was a busy day for cremations. Outside the window I heard crying and shouting and singing. The sounds of sadness were mixed with the unmistakable bustle of a collective, accompanied by the floral aromas of burning incense and garlands blanketing the white-bearded man\u2019s body, which was being washed by loved ones. This group was sad and happy, joyously celebrating a life while offering their shared grief to whomever was listening.Looking back at my mother lying there, covered discreetly with a plain white sheet, I thought something was missing. The Indian mourners outside grieved openly under the bright sun, celebrating despite their sorrow. Inside, it was solemn and melancholy. We found some flowers to place over and around her, allowing Kristine to end her bodily existence in a way that she surely would have appreciated since becoming so enraptured with the humanity of India.My friends and I carried her to the oven. I watched her body begin to burn before the door clanged shut.This never could have happened in the society in which I\u2019d grown up. My culture\u2019s habits in dealing with death are private, behind-the-scenes, all arrangements taken care of. If our loved ones are laid out for us to view, they are made beautiful. Funerals are, traditionally, solemn, mournful and gloomy occasions marked by kind reflections and \u201crespectful\u201d whispers. We don\u2019t want to risk offending the mourners or, even worse, the deceased.And when the bereaved are overcome by grief, we don\u2019t know how to react because we can\u2019t stand seeing people in pain. We want them to stop crying, stop wailing, stop sinking deeper and deeper into their own misery because we\u2019re sure that will make them feel better. But really we\u2019re just trying to make it easier for ourselves.With my mother\u2019s good death, accompanied by the celebratory way we dealt with her body, those of us who had lost her were given the permission to find happiness from the end of an extraordinary life. If I learned anything from my fellow Indian mourners, it\u2019s that it\u2019s much easier to be sad when there is joy.\u201cIt was all worth it,\u201d Kristine had said, looking out over the Yamuna river that arcs quietly behind the Taj like a swooping brush-stroke.It wasn\u2019t just the trek through the desert on camels, trains and bicycles, scaling hilltop forts and palaces, waking up before dawn and driving through the dark to the Taj that was worth it. To her, at that moment, everything in her life was worth it. And she\u2019d been able to share the whole adventure with her family.Jon Magidsohn\u2019s book, Immortal Highway, will be published shortly by Iguana. jonmagidsohn.com/memoir/", "tags": ["Family", "Death and dying", "Parents and parenting", "Bereavement", "Life and style"], "title": "My mother\u2019s good death in India"},{"date": "2015-12-21T14:48:18Z", "country": "india", "content": "An officially sponsored Taj Mahal trip by Orlando Bloom to encourage more foreign tourists to visit went awry at the weekend when the British actor was denied entry to India at Delhi airport.Bloom, who had been invited to visit the monument in Agra by the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh state, was told to get on a flight back to London three hours after touching down early on Saturday morning. The reason: his e-visa, for which he had reportedly applied in November, had not been cleared.\u201cThe immigration officials were insensitive and stubborn, and though Bloom was feeling uneasy and needed a doctor he wasn\u2019t even allowed to sit,\u201d said Amar Singh, a prominent Uttar Pradesh politician who had gone to receive the actor. \u201cThey kept saying, \u2018Bloom is an actor, so he is doing drama.\u2019\u201dOfficials refused to provide Bloom with a 72-hour temporary landing permit that would have allowed him to visit Agra.Singh added: \u201cBut Bloom is so humble and down-to-earth \u2026 Even though he was being deported from India, he readily agreed to fly back from Heathrow the same day if I succeeded in arranging his visa. No Bollywood star would\u2019ve done that.\u201dWhile the actor, whose mother was born in India, waited at Heathrow, Singh asked the Indian foreign minister, Sushma Swaraj, to get the Indian high commission in London to open its visa section and provide him with the document. With TV news cameras in tow, Bloom finally went to Agra with Singh on Sunday on a whirlwind, 45-minute tour. \u201cAt the end of his visit, he moved away from the group and sat by himself cross-legged in front of the 17th-century marble monument, eyes closed, chanting a prayer,\u201d said a Taj Mahal official. Tourism officials have been hoping that a decline in the popularity of the Taj Mahal during the last three years could be turned around by celebrity visits such as Bloom\u2019s.Though the Taj Mahal remains India\u2019s most-visited monument, the number of tourists coming to the site has declined sharply by 150,000 during the last three years. Last year only 640,000 tourists turned up. However, the introduction of e-visas has proved popular with tourists, especially in the UK. Nearly a quarter of the more than 340,000 e-visas issued by India this year have gone to British tourists.", "tags": ["India", "Film", "Culture", "South and Central Asia", "World news"], "title": "Orlando Bloom denied entry to India \u2013 despite being invited"},{"date": "2015-10-02T06:57:24Z", "country": "india", "content": "India, the world\u2019s third biggest greenhouse gas emitter, has pledged to source 40% of its electricity from renewable and other low-carbon sources by 2030.It is the last major economy, following 140 other countries including China, the US and the EU, to submit a climate change plan to the UN before international talks to reach a deal on tackling global warming in Paris this December.Campaigners welcomed the commitment to cut the \u201cemissions intensity\u201d of its economy \u2013 a ratio of carbon emissions per unit of GDP \u2013 by up to 35% by 2030. India\u2019s population of 1.2 billion, about 363 million of whom live in poverty, is projected to grow to 1.5 billion by 2030. \u201cIt is estimated that more than half of India of 2030 is yet to be built,\u201d India\u2019s submission claimed.The country has previously pledged an emissions intensity cut of up to 25% by 2020.Prakash Javadekar, India\u2019s environment minister, said: \u201cThough India is not part of the problem, it wants to be part of the solution. Our historical cumulative emission as of today is below 3%.\u201d Related: Coal is not the answer to India's energy poverty, whatever Tony Abbott says | EAS Sarma In a speech in New York, he referenced the pope\u2019s address to the UN last week and emphasised that while India was a big emitter, it was responsible for less carbon pollution than many developed countries since the industrial revolution. \u201cThe developed world must take moral responsibility for the state of the world today. The pope has also mentioned that the huge consumption of the developed world has repercussions on the developing world,\u201d Javadekar said.India\u2019s submission to the UN, known as its Intended Nationally Determined Contribution (INDC), focuses on clean energy, including solar power, which the prime minister, Narendra Modi, has already strongly backed. It also promised to plant more forests by 2030 to absorb carbon emissions.Modi has repeatedly said India would not accept constraints on its development as part of any climate deal. Unlike China\u2019s submission to the UN in June, India\u2019s does not spell out when its emissions might peak.Most environment groups and thinktanks said the plan, which was submitted to the UN late on Thursday, was good and recognised the impacts global warming would have on India.Rhea Suh, the president of the US-based Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC), said: \u201cIndia\u2019s strong climate plan offers a comprehensive approach to curb the worst impacts of climate change.\u201dGermana Canzi, an analyst at UK-based Energy and Climate Intelligence Unit, hailed India\u2019s pledge as significant and said: \u201cThe path of that India will now take in its development is extremely important for the future of the climate, particularly as the country is set to surpass China to become the world\u2019s most populous country by 2028, with 1.45 billion people.\u201dNitin Pandit, CEO of the World Resources Institute in India, said: \u201cAs one of the most vulnerable countries to climate change, India recognises the domestic benefits of confronting this issue. Its climate plan does a good job combining opportunities to reduce emissions in the near term, and it includes clear goals to restore landscapes that will bring long-term benefits.\u201dBut Durwood Zaelke, a climate change expert and long-time campaigner on the need to phase out climate-changing gases such as HFCs as part of the effort against global warming, said India \u201ccould do much better\u201d, and \u201ceasily\u201d, if it agreed to phase out HFCs, which are used in air conditioning. Unlike the largely dry language of submissions by the US and EU, India\u2019s contains colourful passages explaining its attitude towards the environment, citing its long tradition of a harmonious relationship between man and nature. Mahatma Gandhi is invoked several times, including his comment that \u201cEarth has enough resources to meet people\u2019s needs, but will never have enough to satisfy people\u2019s greed.\u201dThe Philippines also made an informal indication of its plans to cut its carbon emissions by 70% by 2030 but only if it receives financial assistance, a presidential aide told Reuters news agency on Friday.An analysis of 140 countries\u2019 pledges to the UN so far found this week that they would see temperatures rise to 2.7C above pre-industrial levels by 2100. Governments at previous climate talks have committed to holding rises to 2C.The quest for a deal in Paris is intensifying, according to Laurence Tubiana, the French ambassador for climate change, speaking during a Google hangout on Friday.She said that countries must come up with adequate emissions reductions, and that all countries - including the poorest - must be involved in the deal. An additional pre-meeting will also take place in Paris two weeks before the actual summit which starts on 30 November, she confirmed, in an attempt to iron out any remaining difficult issues in advance.\u2022 Additional reporting by Fiona Harvey", "tags": ["Climate change", "India", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Renewable energy", "COP 21: UN climate change conference | Paris", "Energy", "Environment", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Global climate talks", "Nuclear power", "Coal", "Fossil fuels"], "title": "India unveils climate change plan"},{"date": "2015-10-24T05:45:11Z", "country": "india", "content": "The white dome of the Taj Mahal glows pale orange at dawn as hundreds of tourists scuffle towards the great mausoleum. My wife, son, mother and I arrive early to witness the sunrise, to beat the heat and the exhausting crowds, and to touch the marble walls while they are still cool. Like countless visitors before us, we have our photograph taken in front of the Taj with postcard precision. Our smiles suggest a joy in our own adventures.Later that day we fly home to Bangalore in the south, where my family and I have been living. When the sun rises the following day, we find my mother lying dead on the floor of our flat.With the help of our extraordinary neighbours, a colonel in the Indian army and his wife, the panic of not knowing what steps to take with a dead relative in India is stilled, and within minutes friends and neighbours offer us solace. They knew we\u2019d been travelling with my mother and, to a person, their first words to us are, \u201cShe had a good death.\u201dI\u2019d lost loved ones before, most after long, painful illnesses with lingering spells in hospitals draining them of spirit and vigour. I didn\u2019t believe there was such a thing as a good death. But if I\u2019d known my mother was going to die on that sunny Sunday morning in February, I\u2019d probably have hoped it turned out exactly like it did.My mother, Kristine, had never had any desire to see India. She lived in Toronto, Canada, and the thought of visiting the dusty, crowded chaos of the Asian sub-continent was about as appealing to her as eating a five-alarm prawn curry for breakfast every morning. But as soon as I told her we planned to live for two years in India, she asked when it would be convenient for her to visit.She first travelled to Bangalore to see us in January, 2014, and we took her to Kerala for a backwater houseboat cruise, a delightful beach holiday on the Arabian Sea and a few days in ancient Kochi. Like so many other westerners, my mother was changed by India \u2013 she wrote in her journal that she was no longer afraid, feeling perfectly capable of flagging down an auto-rickshaw by herself and wishing she could share her new love of the country with those who would never get to see it \u2013 shedding her earlier apprehensions and anxious to return.For her second visit a year later, we planned a thrilling two weeks through Rajasthan, home of Mughal empires, distinctive art and architecture. This time she arrived excited and eager.On her last morning, she saw the Taj\u00a0Mahal at sunrise.While many senior citizens scramble\u00a0to meet the demands of their bucket list, Kristine crossed off items that she didn\u2019t even know were on a list, her joy\u00a0greater for the surprises.I knew my mother wanted to be cremated. There are better ways of using precious earth, she\u2019d told me, than burying people in it. And though she might have been happy to have her ashes left in India, it seemed only right that I take them home to Canada to scatter with all of her family present. Besides, it\u2019s easier to transport a small urn than a complete body.A cremation, it turns out, is easy to arrange in India where just obtaining a sim card requires a thick sheaf of paperwork, photo ID and the patience of a saint. It\u2019s also far more rewarding.At the crematorium, I sat with my mother\u2019s body in a quiet tiled room as we waited our turn \u2013 it was a busy day for cremations. Outside the window I heard crying and shouting and singing. The sounds of sadness were mixed with the unmistakable bustle of a collective, accompanied by the floral aromas of burning incense and garlands blanketing the white-bearded man\u2019s body, which was being washed by loved ones. This group was sad and happy, joyously celebrating a life while offering their shared grief to whomever was listening.Looking back at my mother lying there, covered discreetly with a plain white sheet, I thought something was missing. The Indian mourners outside grieved openly under the bright sun, celebrating despite their sorrow. Inside, it was solemn and melancholy. We found some flowers to place over and around her, allowing Kristine to end her bodily existence in a way that she surely would have appreciated since becoming so enraptured with the humanity of India.My friends and I carried her to the oven. I watched her body begin to burn before the door clanged shut.This never could have happened in the society in which I\u2019d grown up. My culture\u2019s habits in dealing with death are private, behind-the-scenes, all arrangements taken care of. If our loved ones are laid out for us to view, they are made beautiful. Funerals are, traditionally, solemn, mournful and gloomy occasions marked by kind reflections and \u201crespectful\u201d whispers. We don\u2019t want to risk offending the mourners or, even worse, the deceased.And when the bereaved are overcome by grief, we don\u2019t know how to react because we can\u2019t stand seeing people in pain. We want them to stop crying, stop wailing, stop sinking deeper and deeper into their own misery because we\u2019re sure that will make them feel better. But really we\u2019re just trying to make it easier for ourselves.With my mother\u2019s good death, accompanied by the celebratory way we dealt with her body, those of us who had lost her were given the permission to find happiness from the end of an extraordinary life. If I learned anything from my fellow Indian mourners, it\u2019s that it\u2019s much easier to be sad when there is joy.\u201cIt was all worth it,\u201d Kristine had said, looking out over the Yamuna river that arcs quietly behind the Taj like a swooping brush-stroke.It wasn\u2019t just the trek through the desert on camels, trains and bicycles, scaling hilltop forts and palaces, waking up before dawn and driving through the dark to the Taj that was worth it. To her, at that moment, everything in her life was worth it. And she\u2019d been able to share the whole adventure with her family.Jon Magidsohn\u2019s book, Immortal Highway, will be published shortly by Iguana. jonmagidsohn.com/memoir/", "tags": ["Family", "Death and dying", "Parents and parenting", "Bereavement", "Life and style"], "title": "My mother\u2019s good death in India"},{"date": "2015-12-21T14:48:18Z", "country": "india", "content": "An officially sponsored Taj Mahal trip by Orlando Bloom to encourage more foreign tourists to visit went awry at the weekend when the British actor was denied entry to India at Delhi airport.Bloom, who had been invited to visit the monument in Agra by the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh state, was told to get on a flight back to London three hours after touching down early on Saturday morning. The reason: his e-visa, for which he had reportedly applied in November, had not been cleared.\u201cThe immigration officials were insensitive and stubborn, and though Bloom was feeling uneasy and needed a doctor he wasn\u2019t even allowed to sit,\u201d said Amar Singh, a prominent Uttar Pradesh politician who had gone to receive the actor. \u201cThey kept saying, \u2018Bloom is an actor, so he is doing drama.\u2019\u201dOfficials refused to provide Bloom with a 72-hour temporary landing permit that would have allowed him to visit Agra.Singh added: \u201cBut Bloom is so humble and down-to-earth \u2026 Even though he was being deported from India, he readily agreed to fly back from Heathrow the same day if I succeeded in arranging his visa. No Bollywood star would\u2019ve done that.\u201dWhile the actor, whose mother was born in India, waited at Heathrow, Singh asked the Indian foreign minister, Sushma Swaraj, to get the Indian high commission in London to open its visa section and provide him with the document. With TV news cameras in tow, Bloom finally went to Agra with Singh on Sunday on a whirlwind, 45-minute tour. \u201cAt the end of his visit, he moved away from the group and sat by himself cross-legged in front of the 17th-century marble monument, eyes closed, chanting a prayer,\u201d said a Taj Mahal official. Tourism officials have been hoping that a decline in the popularity of the Taj Mahal during the last three years could be turned around by celebrity visits such as Bloom\u2019s.Though the Taj Mahal remains India\u2019s most-visited monument, the number of tourists coming to the site has declined sharply by 150,000 during the last three years. Last year only 640,000 tourists turned up. However, the introduction of e-visas has proved popular with tourists, especially in the UK. Nearly a quarter of the more than 340,000 e-visas issued by India this year have gone to British tourists.", "tags": ["India", "Film", "Culture", "South and Central Asia", "World news"], "title": "Orlando Bloom denied entry to India \u2013 despite being invited"},{"date": "2015-12-09T19:30:49Z", "country": "india", "content": "Relations between Pakistan and India improved dramatically on Wednesday when the two sparring nuclear-armed neighbours agreed to unrestricted talks after years of disagreeing terms of any discussions of their numerous disputes.The diplomatic breakthrough by two countries that regularly exchange fire across their contested borders was announced at the end of a regional summit in Islamabad where officials also hinted at a possible revival of talks between the Afghan government and \u201cTaliban groups\u201d.The restarting of a \u201ccomprehensive bilateral dialogue\u201d was announced by India\u2019s top diplomat Sushma Swaraj, the first Indian foreign minister to visit Pakistan since 2012.High-ranking officials from the nuclear-armed neighbours have held precious few meetings since the election of Narendra Modi as prime minister of India in May 2014 given his government\u2019s insistence that talks focus on battling terrorism and not the contested region of Kashmir, a key Pakistan concern.On Wednesday Swaraj not only met with Nawaz Sharif, the Pakistani prime minister, and his top foreign affairs adviser, but also agreed to start a dialogue process that would include Kashmir and other border disputes.Pakistan said it was taking steps to bring about the \u201cearly conclusion\u201d of the stalled trial of those involved in the 2008 terror attacks on Mumbai, India\u2019s financial capital, which was masterminded by Lashkar-e-Taiba, a Pakistani militant group.Earlier in the day Swaraj told representatives of 31 countries gathered for the Heart of Asia conference on the future of Afghanistan that it was time for India and Pakistan to display \u201cthe maturity and self-confidence to do business with each other and strengthen regional trade and cooperation\u201d.She added: \u201cThe entire world is waiting and rooting for a change. Let us not disappoint them.\u201dThe change in tack had been presaged by a closed-door meeting in Bangkok on Sunday between the two countries\u2019 national security advisers, which itself followed an informal conversation between Modi and Sharif on the sidelines of the Paris climate change conference the week before.Analysts said India softened its position after a string of state elections when it was in the interest of Modi\u2019s Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata party to strike a hawkish, populist line against Pakistan. Related: Afghanistan security 'undermined by efforts to crush Pakistani militants' In a busy day of diplomacy, the Heart of Asia summit also saw officials from leading countries hint at fresh talks between the Taliban and the Afghan government which were abandoned after just one round this summer.Antony J Blinken, US deputy secretary of state, said the Afghan and Pakistani leaders renewed their commitment to an \u201cAfghan owned and Afghan led\u201d process during meetings with senior diplomats from the US and China, in a sign of the powerful international pressures for a peaceful end to the war.Blinken said the first Pakistani-brokered meeting between Afghan officials and authorised Taliban representatives in a hill town near Islamabad on 8 July had been a \u201cvery significant development\u201d and there was a \u201cclear desire to return to that process\u201d.Salahuddin Rabbani, the Afghan foreign minister, said he hoped to see positive moves in the coming weeks on peace talks.There are doubts over how quickly the talks can begin given the violent splits that developed within the Taliban after it was revealed in late July that the insurgency\u2019s spiritual leader Mullah Omar had been dead for two years.News of Omar\u2019s death triggered a sharp increase in attacks in Afghanistan as the Taliban\u2019s new leader Mullah Mansoor attempted to assert his authority over a movement divided over both his leadership and the wisdom of negotiating with the Kabul government.In a statement Pakistan\u2019s foreign ministry appeared to recognise the divisions by explicitly referring to multiple Taliban groups.Pakistan \u201cwill work to create conditions that encourage participation of Taliban groups in a peace process that demonstrates to them that they have a real option of political engagement\u201d, it said.The surge in violence, which many in Afghanistan believe is caused by clandestine Pakistani support for the rebels, heaped pressure on Ashraf Ghani, the Afghan president, to abandon his policy of making concessions to Islamabad to gain Pakistan\u2019s backing for peace talks.Afghanistan\u2019s enduring security crisis was highlighted on the eve of Ghani\u2019s arrival in Islamabad when 37 people were killed during a Taliban attack on Kandahar airport, a major civilian and military hub in the country\u2019s south.Ghani told the conference that steps taken by Pakistan against terrorism had further undermined Afghan security by flushing ever more militants across the border.He said Afghan special forces had been forced to launch more than 40 operations against the TTP and that the country was now a hotbed of international jihadi.\u201cAl-Qaida, [Isis] and terrorists from China, Russia, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, the Middle East are all, unfortunately, present on our soil,\u201d he said.Aziz Ahmed Khan, a former Pakistani ambassador to both Kabul and New Delhi, said there was now a \u201cray of hope\u201d for improved relations with India.However bitter experience meant \u201cyou should never be overly enthusiastic because you never know where the next stumbling block will come\u201d, he said.Khan doubted there would be an immediate resumption of talks with the Taliban saying there now needed to be an \u201cintra-Taliban reconciliation process\u201d.\u201cAshraf Ghani probably did have reason to be upset with us so the fact that he has come here and everyone has talked at the highest level is something,\u201d he said.", "tags": ["India", "Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Kashmir"], "title": "Pakistan and India agree to resume diplomatic dialogue"},{"date": "2015-10-02T06:57:24Z", "country": "india", "content": "India, the world\u2019s third biggest greenhouse gas emitter, has pledged to source 40% of its electricity from renewable and other low-carbon sources by 2030.It is the last major economy, following 140 other countries including China, the US and the EU, to submit a climate change plan to the UN before international talks to reach a deal on tackling global warming in Paris this December.Campaigners welcomed the commitment to cut the \u201cemissions intensity\u201d of its economy \u2013 a ratio of carbon emissions per unit of GDP \u2013 by up to 35% by 2030. India\u2019s population of 1.2 billion, about 363 million of whom live in poverty, is projected to grow to 1.5 billion by 2030. \u201cIt is estimated that more than half of India of 2030 is yet to be built,\u201d India\u2019s submission claimed.The country has previously pledged an emissions intensity cut of up to 25% by 2020.Prakash Javadekar, India\u2019s environment minister, said: \u201cThough India is not part of the problem, it wants to be part of the solution. Our historical cumulative emission as of today is below 3%.\u201d Related: Coal is not the answer to India's energy poverty, whatever Tony Abbott says | EAS Sarma In a speech in New York, he referenced the pope\u2019s address to the UN last week and emphasised that while India was a big emitter, it was responsible for less carbon pollution than many developed countries since the industrial revolution. \u201cThe developed world must take moral responsibility for the state of the world today. The pope has also mentioned that the huge consumption of the developed world has repercussions on the developing world,\u201d Javadekar said.India\u2019s submission to the UN, known as its Intended Nationally Determined Contribution (INDC), focuses on clean energy, including solar power, which the prime minister, Narendra Modi, has already strongly backed. It also promised to plant more forests by 2030 to absorb carbon emissions.Modi has repeatedly said India would not accept constraints on its development as part of any climate deal. Unlike China\u2019s submission to the UN in June, India\u2019s does not spell out when its emissions might peak.Most environment groups and thinktanks said the plan, which was submitted to the UN late on Thursday, was good and recognised the impacts global warming would have on India.Rhea Suh, the president of the US-based Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC), said: \u201cIndia\u2019s strong climate plan offers a comprehensive approach to curb the worst impacts of climate change.\u201dGermana Canzi, an analyst at UK-based Energy and Climate Intelligence Unit, hailed India\u2019s pledge as significant and said: \u201cThe path of that India will now take in its development is extremely important for the future of the climate, particularly as the country is set to surpass China to become the world\u2019s most populous country by 2028, with 1.45 billion people.\u201dNitin Pandit, CEO of the World Resources Institute in India, said: \u201cAs one of the most vulnerable countries to climate change, India recognises the domestic benefits of confronting this issue. Its climate plan does a good job combining opportunities to reduce emissions in the near term, and it includes clear goals to restore landscapes that will bring long-term benefits.\u201dBut Durwood Zaelke, a climate change expert and long-time campaigner on the need to phase out climate-changing gases such as HFCs as part of the effort against global warming, said India \u201ccould do much better\u201d, and \u201ceasily\u201d, if it agreed to phase out HFCs, which are used in air conditioning. Unlike the largely dry language of submissions by the US and EU, India\u2019s contains colourful passages explaining its attitude towards the environment, citing its long tradition of a harmonious relationship between man and nature. Mahatma Gandhi is invoked several times, including his comment that \u201cEarth has enough resources to meet people\u2019s needs, but will never have enough to satisfy people\u2019s greed.\u201dThe Philippines also made an informal indication of its plans to cut its carbon emissions by 70% by 2030 but only if it receives financial assistance, a presidential aide told Reuters news agency on Friday.An analysis of 140 countries\u2019 pledges to the UN so far found this week that they would see temperatures rise to 2.7C above pre-industrial levels by 2100. Governments at previous climate talks have committed to holding rises to 2C.The quest for a deal in Paris is intensifying, according to Laurence Tubiana, the French ambassador for climate change, speaking during a Google hangout on Friday.She said that countries must come up with adequate emissions reductions, and that all countries - including the poorest - must be involved in the deal. An additional pre-meeting will also take place in Paris two weeks before the actual summit which starts on 30 November, she confirmed, in an attempt to iron out any remaining difficult issues in advance.\u2022 Additional reporting by Fiona Harvey", "tags": ["Climate change", "India", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Renewable energy", "COP 21: UN climate change conference | Paris", "Energy", "Environment", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Global climate talks", "Nuclear power", "Coal", "Fossil fuels"], "title": "India unveils climate change plan"},{"date": "2015-10-24T05:45:11Z", "country": "india", "content": "The white dome of the Taj Mahal glows pale orange at dawn as hundreds of tourists scuffle towards the great mausoleum. My wife, son, mother and I arrive early to witness the sunrise, to beat the heat and the exhausting crowds, and to touch the marble walls while they are still cool. Like countless visitors before us, we have our photograph taken in front of the Taj with postcard precision. Our smiles suggest a joy in our own adventures.Later that day we fly home to Bangalore in the south, where my family and I have been living. When the sun rises the following day, we find my mother lying dead on the floor of our flat.With the help of our extraordinary neighbours, a colonel in the Indian army and his wife, the panic of not knowing what steps to take with a dead relative in India is stilled, and within minutes friends and neighbours offer us solace. They knew we\u2019d been travelling with my mother and, to a person, their first words to us are, \u201cShe had a good death.\u201dI\u2019d lost loved ones before, most after long, painful illnesses with lingering spells in hospitals draining them of spirit and vigour. I didn\u2019t believe there was such a thing as a good death. But if I\u2019d known my mother was going to die on that sunny Sunday morning in February, I\u2019d probably have hoped it turned out exactly like it did.My mother, Kristine, had never had any desire to see India. She lived in Toronto, Canada, and the thought of visiting the dusty, crowded chaos of the Asian sub-continent was about as appealing to her as eating a five-alarm prawn curry for breakfast every morning. But as soon as I told her we planned to live for two years in India, she asked when it would be convenient for her to visit.She first travelled to Bangalore to see us in January, 2014, and we took her to Kerala for a backwater houseboat cruise, a delightful beach holiday on the Arabian Sea and a few days in ancient Kochi. Like so many other westerners, my mother was changed by India \u2013 she wrote in her journal that she was no longer afraid, feeling perfectly capable of flagging down an auto-rickshaw by herself and wishing she could share her new love of the country with those who would never get to see it \u2013 shedding her earlier apprehensions and anxious to return.For her second visit a year later, we planned a thrilling two weeks through Rajasthan, home of Mughal empires, distinctive art and architecture. This time she arrived excited and eager.On her last morning, she saw the Taj\u00a0Mahal at sunrise.While many senior citizens scramble\u00a0to meet the demands of their bucket list, Kristine crossed off items that she didn\u2019t even know were on a list, her joy\u00a0greater for the surprises.I knew my mother wanted to be cremated. There are better ways of using precious earth, she\u2019d told me, than burying people in it. And though she might have been happy to have her ashes left in India, it seemed only right that I take them home to Canada to scatter with all of her family present. Besides, it\u2019s easier to transport a small urn than a complete body.A cremation, it turns out, is easy to arrange in India where just obtaining a sim card requires a thick sheaf of paperwork, photo ID and the patience of a saint. It\u2019s also far more rewarding.At the crematorium, I sat with my mother\u2019s body in a quiet tiled room as we waited our turn \u2013 it was a busy day for cremations. Outside the window I heard crying and shouting and singing. The sounds of sadness were mixed with the unmistakable bustle of a collective, accompanied by the floral aromas of burning incense and garlands blanketing the white-bearded man\u2019s body, which was being washed by loved ones. This group was sad and happy, joyously celebrating a life while offering their shared grief to whomever was listening.Looking back at my mother lying there, covered discreetly with a plain white sheet, I thought something was missing. The Indian mourners outside grieved openly under the bright sun, celebrating despite their sorrow. Inside, it was solemn and melancholy. We found some flowers to place over and around her, allowing Kristine to end her bodily existence in a way that she surely would have appreciated since becoming so enraptured with the humanity of India.My friends and I carried her to the oven. I watched her body begin to burn before the door clanged shut.This never could have happened in the society in which I\u2019d grown up. My culture\u2019s habits in dealing with death are private, behind-the-scenes, all arrangements taken care of. If our loved ones are laid out for us to view, they are made beautiful. Funerals are, traditionally, solemn, mournful and gloomy occasions marked by kind reflections and \u201crespectful\u201d whispers. We don\u2019t want to risk offending the mourners or, even worse, the deceased.And when the bereaved are overcome by grief, we don\u2019t know how to react because we can\u2019t stand seeing people in pain. We want them to stop crying, stop wailing, stop sinking deeper and deeper into their own misery because we\u2019re sure that will make them feel better. But really we\u2019re just trying to make it easier for ourselves.With my mother\u2019s good death, accompanied by the celebratory way we dealt with her body, those of us who had lost her were given the permission to find happiness from the end of an extraordinary life. If I learned anything from my fellow Indian mourners, it\u2019s that it\u2019s much easier to be sad when there is joy.\u201cIt was all worth it,\u201d Kristine had said, looking out over the Yamuna river that arcs quietly behind the Taj like a swooping brush-stroke.It wasn\u2019t just the trek through the desert on camels, trains and bicycles, scaling hilltop forts and palaces, waking up before dawn and driving through the dark to the Taj that was worth it. To her, at that moment, everything in her life was worth it. And she\u2019d been able to share the whole adventure with her family.Jon Magidsohn\u2019s book, Immortal Highway, will be published shortly by Iguana. jonmagidsohn.com/memoir/", "tags": ["Family", "Death and dying", "Parents and parenting", "Bereavement", "Life and style"], "title": "My mother\u2019s good death in India"},{"date": "2015-12-21T14:48:18Z", "country": "india", "content": "An officially sponsored Taj Mahal trip by Orlando Bloom to encourage more foreign tourists to visit went awry at the weekend when the British actor was denied entry to India at Delhi airport.Bloom, who had been invited to visit the monument in Agra by the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh state, was told to get on a flight back to London three hours after touching down early on Saturday morning. The reason: his e-visa, for which he had reportedly applied in November, had not been cleared.\u201cThe immigration officials were insensitive and stubborn, and though Bloom was feeling uneasy and needed a doctor he wasn\u2019t even allowed to sit,\u201d said Amar Singh, a prominent Uttar Pradesh politician who had gone to receive the actor. \u201cThey kept saying, \u2018Bloom is an actor, so he is doing drama.\u2019\u201dOfficials refused to provide Bloom with a 72-hour temporary landing permit that would have allowed him to visit Agra.Singh added: \u201cBut Bloom is so humble and down-to-earth \u2026 Even though he was being deported from India, he readily agreed to fly back from Heathrow the same day if I succeeded in arranging his visa. No Bollywood star would\u2019ve done that.\u201dWhile the actor, whose mother was born in India, waited at Heathrow, Singh asked the Indian foreign minister, Sushma Swaraj, to get the Indian high commission in London to open its visa section and provide him with the document. With TV news cameras in tow, Bloom finally went to Agra with Singh on Sunday on a whirlwind, 45-minute tour. \u201cAt the end of his visit, he moved away from the group and sat by himself cross-legged in front of the 17th-century marble monument, eyes closed, chanting a prayer,\u201d said a Taj Mahal official. Tourism officials have been hoping that a decline in the popularity of the Taj Mahal during the last three years could be turned around by celebrity visits such as Bloom\u2019s.Though the Taj Mahal remains India\u2019s most-visited monument, the number of tourists coming to the site has declined sharply by 150,000 during the last three years. Last year only 640,000 tourists turned up. However, the introduction of e-visas has proved popular with tourists, especially in the UK. Nearly a quarter of the more than 340,000 e-visas issued by India this year have gone to British tourists.", "tags": ["India", "Film", "Culture", "South and Central Asia", "World news"], "title": "Orlando Bloom denied entry to India \u2013 despite being invited"},{"date": "2015-12-09T19:30:49Z", "country": "india", "content": "Relations between Pakistan and India improved dramatically on Wednesday when the two sparring nuclear-armed neighbours agreed to unrestricted talks after years of disagreeing terms of any discussions of their numerous disputes.The diplomatic breakthrough by two countries that regularly exchange fire across their contested borders was announced at the end of a regional summit in Islamabad where officials also hinted at a possible revival of talks between the Afghan government and \u201cTaliban groups\u201d.The restarting of a \u201ccomprehensive bilateral dialogue\u201d was announced by India\u2019s top diplomat Sushma Swaraj, the first Indian foreign minister to visit Pakistan since 2012.High-ranking officials from the nuclear-armed neighbours have held precious few meetings since the election of Narendra Modi as prime minister of India in May 2014 given his government\u2019s insistence that talks focus on battling terrorism and not the contested region of Kashmir, a key Pakistan concern.On Wednesday Swaraj not only met with Nawaz Sharif, the Pakistani prime minister, and his top foreign affairs adviser, but also agreed to start a dialogue process that would include Kashmir and other border disputes.Pakistan said it was taking steps to bring about the \u201cearly conclusion\u201d of the stalled trial of those involved in the 2008 terror attacks on Mumbai, India\u2019s financial capital, which was masterminded by Lashkar-e-Taiba, a Pakistani militant group.Earlier in the day Swaraj told representatives of 31 countries gathered for the Heart of Asia conference on the future of Afghanistan that it was time for India and Pakistan to display \u201cthe maturity and self-confidence to do business with each other and strengthen regional trade and cooperation\u201d.She added: \u201cThe entire world is waiting and rooting for a change. Let us not disappoint them.\u201dThe change in tack had been presaged by a closed-door meeting in Bangkok on Sunday between the two countries\u2019 national security advisers, which itself followed an informal conversation between Modi and Sharif on the sidelines of the Paris climate change conference the week before.Analysts said India softened its position after a string of state elections when it was in the interest of Modi\u2019s Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata party to strike a hawkish, populist line against Pakistan. Related: Afghanistan security 'undermined by efforts to crush Pakistani militants' In a busy day of diplomacy, the Heart of Asia summit also saw officials from leading countries hint at fresh talks between the Taliban and the Afghan government which were abandoned after just one round this summer.Antony J Blinken, US deputy secretary of state, said the Afghan and Pakistani leaders renewed their commitment to an \u201cAfghan owned and Afghan led\u201d process during meetings with senior diplomats from the US and China, in a sign of the powerful international pressures for a peaceful end to the war.Blinken said the first Pakistani-brokered meeting between Afghan officials and authorised Taliban representatives in a hill town near Islamabad on 8 July had been a \u201cvery significant development\u201d and there was a \u201cclear desire to return to that process\u201d.Salahuddin Rabbani, the Afghan foreign minister, said he hoped to see positive moves in the coming weeks on peace talks.There are doubts over how quickly the talks can begin given the violent splits that developed within the Taliban after it was revealed in late July that the insurgency\u2019s spiritual leader Mullah Omar had been dead for two years.News of Omar\u2019s death triggered a sharp increase in attacks in Afghanistan as the Taliban\u2019s new leader Mullah Mansoor attempted to assert his authority over a movement divided over both his leadership and the wisdom of negotiating with the Kabul government.In a statement Pakistan\u2019s foreign ministry appeared to recognise the divisions by explicitly referring to multiple Taliban groups.Pakistan \u201cwill work to create conditions that encourage participation of Taliban groups in a peace process that demonstrates to them that they have a real option of political engagement\u201d, it said.The surge in violence, which many in Afghanistan believe is caused by clandestine Pakistani support for the rebels, heaped pressure on Ashraf Ghani, the Afghan president, to abandon his policy of making concessions to Islamabad to gain Pakistan\u2019s backing for peace talks.Afghanistan\u2019s enduring security crisis was highlighted on the eve of Ghani\u2019s arrival in Islamabad when 37 people were killed during a Taliban attack on Kandahar airport, a major civilian and military hub in the country\u2019s south.Ghani told the conference that steps taken by Pakistan against terrorism had further undermined Afghan security by flushing ever more militants across the border.He said Afghan special forces had been forced to launch more than 40 operations against the TTP and that the country was now a hotbed of international jihadi.\u201cAl-Qaida, [Isis] and terrorists from China, Russia, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, the Middle East are all, unfortunately, present on our soil,\u201d he said.Aziz Ahmed Khan, a former Pakistani ambassador to both Kabul and New Delhi, said there was now a \u201cray of hope\u201d for improved relations with India.However bitter experience meant \u201cyou should never be overly enthusiastic because you never know where the next stumbling block will come\u201d, he said.Khan doubted there would be an immediate resumption of talks with the Taliban saying there now needed to be an \u201cintra-Taliban reconciliation process\u201d.\u201cAshraf Ghani probably did have reason to be upset with us so the fact that he has come here and everyone has talked at the highest level is something,\u201d he said.", "tags": ["India", "Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Kashmir"], "title": "Pakistan and India agree to resume diplomatic dialogue"},{"date": "2015-12-04T10:45:14Z", "country": "india", "content": "Thousands of residents in Tamil Nadu have been moved from the area after experiencing the heaviest rains in more than a century, with those in the city of Chennai trying to escape the flooding.More than 3 million people have been cut off from basic services. The floods have also hampered rescue efforts by the army, which has picked up 18,000 people from rooftops and outlying villages.If you are affected by the flooding in south India, we\u2019d like to hear from you. We\u2019re interested in photographs of areas both before and after they have been affected by any severe weather. We\u2019ll include a selection of photographs and videos on the site. You can also download the Guardian app and search for \u2018GuardianWitness assignments\u2019 \u2013 and if you add it to the homepage \u2013 you can keep up with all our assignments. If you\u2019re on Instagram you can contribute using #GuardianWitness. You can also contact us using Whatsapp on +447867825056, but please stay safe. Terms and conditions here.Though we\u2019d like to hear from you, your safety and security is most important. When responding to this assignment, please make sure you put your safety and the safety of others first. Extreme weather events can be very unpredictable and carry very real risks.", "tags": ["Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news"], "title": "South India flooding: share your photos and experiences"},{"date": "2015-10-02T06:57:24Z", "country": "india", "content": "India, the world\u2019s third biggest greenhouse gas emitter, has pledged to source 40% of its electricity from renewable and other low-carbon sources by 2030.It is the last major economy, following 140 other countries including China, the US and the EU, to submit a climate change plan to the UN before international talks to reach a deal on tackling global warming in Paris this December.Campaigners welcomed the commitment to cut the \u201cemissions intensity\u201d of its economy \u2013 a ratio of carbon emissions per unit of GDP \u2013 by up to 35% by 2030. India\u2019s population of 1.2 billion, about 363 million of whom live in poverty, is projected to grow to 1.5 billion by 2030. \u201cIt is estimated that more than half of India of 2030 is yet to be built,\u201d India\u2019s submission claimed.The country has previously pledged an emissions intensity cut of up to 25% by 2020.Prakash Javadekar, India\u2019s environment minister, said: \u201cThough India is not part of the problem, it wants to be part of the solution. Our historical cumulative emission as of today is below 3%.\u201d Related: Coal is not the answer to India's energy poverty, whatever Tony Abbott says | EAS Sarma In a speech in New York, he referenced the pope\u2019s address to the UN last week and emphasised that while India was a big emitter, it was responsible for less carbon pollution than many developed countries since the industrial revolution. \u201cThe developed world must take moral responsibility for the state of the world today. The pope has also mentioned that the huge consumption of the developed world has repercussions on the developing world,\u201d Javadekar said.India\u2019s submission to the UN, known as its Intended Nationally Determined Contribution (INDC), focuses on clean energy, including solar power, which the prime minister, Narendra Modi, has already strongly backed. It also promised to plant more forests by 2030 to absorb carbon emissions.Modi has repeatedly said India would not accept constraints on its development as part of any climate deal. Unlike China\u2019s submission to the UN in June, India\u2019s does not spell out when its emissions might peak.Most environment groups and thinktanks said the plan, which was submitted to the UN late on Thursday, was good and recognised the impacts global warming would have on India.Rhea Suh, the president of the US-based Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC), said: \u201cIndia\u2019s strong climate plan offers a comprehensive approach to curb the worst impacts of climate change.\u201dGermana Canzi, an analyst at UK-based Energy and Climate Intelligence Unit, hailed India\u2019s pledge as significant and said: \u201cThe path of that India will now take in its development is extremely important for the future of the climate, particularly as the country is set to surpass China to become the world\u2019s most populous country by 2028, with 1.45 billion people.\u201dNitin Pandit, CEO of the World Resources Institute in India, said: \u201cAs one of the most vulnerable countries to climate change, India recognises the domestic benefits of confronting this issue. Its climate plan does a good job combining opportunities to reduce emissions in the near term, and it includes clear goals to restore landscapes that will bring long-term benefits.\u201dBut Durwood Zaelke, a climate change expert and long-time campaigner on the need to phase out climate-changing gases such as HFCs as part of the effort against global warming, said India \u201ccould do much better\u201d, and \u201ceasily\u201d, if it agreed to phase out HFCs, which are used in air conditioning. Unlike the largely dry language of submissions by the US and EU, India\u2019s contains colourful passages explaining its attitude towards the environment, citing its long tradition of a harmonious relationship between man and nature. Mahatma Gandhi is invoked several times, including his comment that \u201cEarth has enough resources to meet people\u2019s needs, but will never have enough to satisfy people\u2019s greed.\u201dThe Philippines also made an informal indication of its plans to cut its carbon emissions by 70% by 2030 but only if it receives financial assistance, a presidential aide told Reuters news agency on Friday.An analysis of 140 countries\u2019 pledges to the UN so far found this week that they would see temperatures rise to 2.7C above pre-industrial levels by 2100. Governments at previous climate talks have committed to holding rises to 2C.The quest for a deal in Paris is intensifying, according to Laurence Tubiana, the French ambassador for climate change, speaking during a Google hangout on Friday.She said that countries must come up with adequate emissions reductions, and that all countries - including the poorest - must be involved in the deal. An additional pre-meeting will also take place in Paris two weeks before the actual summit which starts on 30 November, she confirmed, in an attempt to iron out any remaining difficult issues in advance.\u2022 Additional reporting by Fiona Harvey", "tags": ["Climate change", "India", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Renewable energy", "COP 21: UN climate change conference | Paris", "Energy", "Environment", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Global climate talks", "Nuclear power", "Coal", "Fossil fuels"], "title": "India unveils climate change plan"},{"date": "2015-10-24T05:45:11Z", "country": "india", "content": "The white dome of the Taj Mahal glows pale orange at dawn as hundreds of tourists scuffle towards the great mausoleum. My wife, son, mother and I arrive early to witness the sunrise, to beat the heat and the exhausting crowds, and to touch the marble walls while they are still cool. Like countless visitors before us, we have our photograph taken in front of the Taj with postcard precision. Our smiles suggest a joy in our own adventures.Later that day we fly home to Bangalore in the south, where my family and I have been living. When the sun rises the following day, we find my mother lying dead on the floor of our flat.With the help of our extraordinary neighbours, a colonel in the Indian army and his wife, the panic of not knowing what steps to take with a dead relative in India is stilled, and within minutes friends and neighbours offer us solace. They knew we\u2019d been travelling with my mother and, to a person, their first words to us are, \u201cShe had a good death.\u201dI\u2019d lost loved ones before, most after long, painful illnesses with lingering spells in hospitals draining them of spirit and vigour. I didn\u2019t believe there was such a thing as a good death. But if I\u2019d known my mother was going to die on that sunny Sunday morning in February, I\u2019d probably have hoped it turned out exactly like it did.My mother, Kristine, had never had any desire to see India. She lived in Toronto, Canada, and the thought of visiting the dusty, crowded chaos of the Asian sub-continent was about as appealing to her as eating a five-alarm prawn curry for breakfast every morning. But as soon as I told her we planned to live for two years in India, she asked when it would be convenient for her to visit.She first travelled to Bangalore to see us in January, 2014, and we took her to Kerala for a backwater houseboat cruise, a delightful beach holiday on the Arabian Sea and a few days in ancient Kochi. Like so many other westerners, my mother was changed by India \u2013 she wrote in her journal that she was no longer afraid, feeling perfectly capable of flagging down an auto-rickshaw by herself and wishing she could share her new love of the country with those who would never get to see it \u2013 shedding her earlier apprehensions and anxious to return.For her second visit a year later, we planned a thrilling two weeks through Rajasthan, home of Mughal empires, distinctive art and architecture. This time she arrived excited and eager.On her last morning, she saw the Taj\u00a0Mahal at sunrise.While many senior citizens scramble\u00a0to meet the demands of their bucket list, Kristine crossed off items that she didn\u2019t even know were on a list, her joy\u00a0greater for the surprises.I knew my mother wanted to be cremated. There are better ways of using precious earth, she\u2019d told me, than burying people in it. And though she might have been happy to have her ashes left in India, it seemed only right that I take them home to Canada to scatter with all of her family present. Besides, it\u2019s easier to transport a small urn than a complete body.A cremation, it turns out, is easy to arrange in India where just obtaining a sim card requires a thick sheaf of paperwork, photo ID and the patience of a saint. It\u2019s also far more rewarding.At the crematorium, I sat with my mother\u2019s body in a quiet tiled room as we waited our turn \u2013 it was a busy day for cremations. Outside the window I heard crying and shouting and singing. The sounds of sadness were mixed with the unmistakable bustle of a collective, accompanied by the floral aromas of burning incense and garlands blanketing the white-bearded man\u2019s body, which was being washed by loved ones. This group was sad and happy, joyously celebrating a life while offering their shared grief to whomever was listening.Looking back at my mother lying there, covered discreetly with a plain white sheet, I thought something was missing. The Indian mourners outside grieved openly under the bright sun, celebrating despite their sorrow. Inside, it was solemn and melancholy. We found some flowers to place over and around her, allowing Kristine to end her bodily existence in a way that she surely would have appreciated since becoming so enraptured with the humanity of India.My friends and I carried her to the oven. I watched her body begin to burn before the door clanged shut.This never could have happened in the society in which I\u2019d grown up. My culture\u2019s habits in dealing with death are private, behind-the-scenes, all arrangements taken care of. If our loved ones are laid out for us to view, they are made beautiful. Funerals are, traditionally, solemn, mournful and gloomy occasions marked by kind reflections and \u201crespectful\u201d whispers. We don\u2019t want to risk offending the mourners or, even worse, the deceased.And when the bereaved are overcome by grief, we don\u2019t know how to react because we can\u2019t stand seeing people in pain. We want them to stop crying, stop wailing, stop sinking deeper and deeper into their own misery because we\u2019re sure that will make them feel better. But really we\u2019re just trying to make it easier for ourselves.With my mother\u2019s good death, accompanied by the celebratory way we dealt with her body, those of us who had lost her were given the permission to find happiness from the end of an extraordinary life. If I learned anything from my fellow Indian mourners, it\u2019s that it\u2019s much easier to be sad when there is joy.\u201cIt was all worth it,\u201d Kristine had said, looking out over the Yamuna river that arcs quietly behind the Taj like a swooping brush-stroke.It wasn\u2019t just the trek through the desert on camels, trains and bicycles, scaling hilltop forts and palaces, waking up before dawn and driving through the dark to the Taj that was worth it. To her, at that moment, everything in her life was worth it. And she\u2019d been able to share the whole adventure with her family.Jon Magidsohn\u2019s book, Immortal Highway, will be published shortly by Iguana. jonmagidsohn.com/memoir/", "tags": ["Family", "Death and dying", "Parents and parenting", "Bereavement", "Life and style"], "title": "My mother\u2019s good death in India"},{"date": "2015-12-21T14:48:18Z", "country": "india", "content": "An officially sponsored Taj Mahal trip by Orlando Bloom to encourage more foreign tourists to visit went awry at the weekend when the British actor was denied entry to India at Delhi airport.Bloom, who had been invited to visit the monument in Agra by the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh state, was told to get on a flight back to London three hours after touching down early on Saturday morning. The reason: his e-visa, for which he had reportedly applied in November, had not been cleared.\u201cThe immigration officials were insensitive and stubborn, and though Bloom was feeling uneasy and needed a doctor he wasn\u2019t even allowed to sit,\u201d said Amar Singh, a prominent Uttar Pradesh politician who had gone to receive the actor. \u201cThey kept saying, \u2018Bloom is an actor, so he is doing drama.\u2019\u201dOfficials refused to provide Bloom with a 72-hour temporary landing permit that would have allowed him to visit Agra.Singh added: \u201cBut Bloom is so humble and down-to-earth \u2026 Even though he was being deported from India, he readily agreed to fly back from Heathrow the same day if I succeeded in arranging his visa. No Bollywood star would\u2019ve done that.\u201dWhile the actor, whose mother was born in India, waited at Heathrow, Singh asked the Indian foreign minister, Sushma Swaraj, to get the Indian high commission in London to open its visa section and provide him with the document. With TV news cameras in tow, Bloom finally went to Agra with Singh on Sunday on a whirlwind, 45-minute tour. \u201cAt the end of his visit, he moved away from the group and sat by himself cross-legged in front of the 17th-century marble monument, eyes closed, chanting a prayer,\u201d said a Taj Mahal official. Tourism officials have been hoping that a decline in the popularity of the Taj Mahal during the last three years could be turned around by celebrity visits such as Bloom\u2019s.Though the Taj Mahal remains India\u2019s most-visited monument, the number of tourists coming to the site has declined sharply by 150,000 during the last three years. Last year only 640,000 tourists turned up. However, the introduction of e-visas has proved popular with tourists, especially in the UK. Nearly a quarter of the more than 340,000 e-visas issued by India this year have gone to British tourists.", "tags": ["India", "Film", "Culture", "South and Central Asia", "World news"], "title": "Orlando Bloom denied entry to India \u2013 despite being invited"},{"date": "2015-12-09T19:30:49Z", "country": "india", "content": "Relations between Pakistan and India improved dramatically on Wednesday when the two sparring nuclear-armed neighbours agreed to unrestricted talks after years of disagreeing terms of any discussions of their numerous disputes.The diplomatic breakthrough by two countries that regularly exchange fire across their contested borders was announced at the end of a regional summit in Islamabad where officials also hinted at a possible revival of talks between the Afghan government and \u201cTaliban groups\u201d.The restarting of a \u201ccomprehensive bilateral dialogue\u201d was announced by India\u2019s top diplomat Sushma Swaraj, the first Indian foreign minister to visit Pakistan since 2012.High-ranking officials from the nuclear-armed neighbours have held precious few meetings since the election of Narendra Modi as prime minister of India in May 2014 given his government\u2019s insistence that talks focus on battling terrorism and not the contested region of Kashmir, a key Pakistan concern.On Wednesday Swaraj not only met with Nawaz Sharif, the Pakistani prime minister, and his top foreign affairs adviser, but also agreed to start a dialogue process that would include Kashmir and other border disputes.Pakistan said it was taking steps to bring about the \u201cearly conclusion\u201d of the stalled trial of those involved in the 2008 terror attacks on Mumbai, India\u2019s financial capital, which was masterminded by Lashkar-e-Taiba, a Pakistani militant group.Earlier in the day Swaraj told representatives of 31 countries gathered for the Heart of Asia conference on the future of Afghanistan that it was time for India and Pakistan to display \u201cthe maturity and self-confidence to do business with each other and strengthen regional trade and cooperation\u201d.She added: \u201cThe entire world is waiting and rooting for a change. Let us not disappoint them.\u201dThe change in tack had been presaged by a closed-door meeting in Bangkok on Sunday between the two countries\u2019 national security advisers, which itself followed an informal conversation between Modi and Sharif on the sidelines of the Paris climate change conference the week before.Analysts said India softened its position after a string of state elections when it was in the interest of Modi\u2019s Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata party to strike a hawkish, populist line against Pakistan. Related: Afghanistan security 'undermined by efforts to crush Pakistani militants' In a busy day of diplomacy, the Heart of Asia summit also saw officials from leading countries hint at fresh talks between the Taliban and the Afghan government which were abandoned after just one round this summer.Antony J Blinken, US deputy secretary of state, said the Afghan and Pakistani leaders renewed their commitment to an \u201cAfghan owned and Afghan led\u201d process during meetings with senior diplomats from the US and China, in a sign of the powerful international pressures for a peaceful end to the war.Blinken said the first Pakistani-brokered meeting between Afghan officials and authorised Taliban representatives in a hill town near Islamabad on 8 July had been a \u201cvery significant development\u201d and there was a \u201cclear desire to return to that process\u201d.Salahuddin Rabbani, the Afghan foreign minister, said he hoped to see positive moves in the coming weeks on peace talks.There are doubts over how quickly the talks can begin given the violent splits that developed within the Taliban after it was revealed in late July that the insurgency\u2019s spiritual leader Mullah Omar had been dead for two years.News of Omar\u2019s death triggered a sharp increase in attacks in Afghanistan as the Taliban\u2019s new leader Mullah Mansoor attempted to assert his authority over a movement divided over both his leadership and the wisdom of negotiating with the Kabul government.In a statement Pakistan\u2019s foreign ministry appeared to recognise the divisions by explicitly referring to multiple Taliban groups.Pakistan \u201cwill work to create conditions that encourage participation of Taliban groups in a peace process that demonstrates to them that they have a real option of political engagement\u201d, it said.The surge in violence, which many in Afghanistan believe is caused by clandestine Pakistani support for the rebels, heaped pressure on Ashraf Ghani, the Afghan president, to abandon his policy of making concessions to Islamabad to gain Pakistan\u2019s backing for peace talks.Afghanistan\u2019s enduring security crisis was highlighted on the eve of Ghani\u2019s arrival in Islamabad when 37 people were killed during a Taliban attack on Kandahar airport, a major civilian and military hub in the country\u2019s south.Ghani told the conference that steps taken by Pakistan against terrorism had further undermined Afghan security by flushing ever more militants across the border.He said Afghan special forces had been forced to launch more than 40 operations against the TTP and that the country was now a hotbed of international jihadi.\u201cAl-Qaida, [Isis] and terrorists from China, Russia, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, the Middle East are all, unfortunately, present on our soil,\u201d he said.Aziz Ahmed Khan, a former Pakistani ambassador to both Kabul and New Delhi, said there was now a \u201cray of hope\u201d for improved relations with India.However bitter experience meant \u201cyou should never be overly enthusiastic because you never know where the next stumbling block will come\u201d, he said.Khan doubted there would be an immediate resumption of talks with the Taliban saying there now needed to be an \u201cintra-Taliban reconciliation process\u201d.\u201cAshraf Ghani probably did have reason to be upset with us so the fact that he has come here and everyone has talked at the highest level is something,\u201d he said.", "tags": ["India", "Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Kashmir"], "title": "Pakistan and India agree to resume diplomatic dialogue"},{"date": "2015-12-04T10:45:14Z", "country": "india", "content": "Thousands of residents in Tamil Nadu have been moved from the area after experiencing the heaviest rains in more than a century, with those in the city of Chennai trying to escape the flooding.More than 3 million people have been cut off from basic services. The floods have also hampered rescue efforts by the army, which has picked up 18,000 people from rooftops and outlying villages.If you are affected by the flooding in south India, we\u2019d like to hear from you. We\u2019re interested in photographs of areas both before and after they have been affected by any severe weather. We\u2019ll include a selection of photographs and videos on the site. You can also download the Guardian app and search for \u2018GuardianWitness assignments\u2019 \u2013 and if you add it to the homepage \u2013 you can keep up with all our assignments. If you\u2019re on Instagram you can contribute using #GuardianWitness. You can also contact us using Whatsapp on +447867825056, but please stay safe. Terms and conditions here.Though we\u2019d like to hear from you, your safety and security is most important. When responding to this assignment, please make sure you put your safety and the safety of others first. Extreme weather events can be very unpredictable and carry very real risks.", "tags": ["Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news"], "title": "South India flooding: share your photos and experiences"},{"date": "2015-11-12T17:33:54Z", "country": "india", "content": "The Hindu god Vishnu has several incarnations, many of them human. The latest of these appears to be Narendra Modi. All over India there are images of the man, right arm raised in the benevolent gesture of good fortune. But this strong-but-enlightened-man image hides the frightening and shrill reality of an increasingly Modi-led Hindu dominance of India. Related: For years Britain shunned Narendra Modi. So why roll out the red carpet now? | Aditya Chakrabortty The country\u2019s openness to social and religious minorities (more than 500 million people) and regional differences is at serious risk. Of late, Modi\u2019s regime has effectively tolerated \u2013 if not encouraged \u2013 a saffron-clad army of Hindu activists who monitor and violently discipline those suspected of eating beef, disobeying caste rules or betraying the \u201cHindu nation\u201d.In the UK, people might perhaps be familiar with India\u2019s cricket prowess, atrocities in Kashmir or the recent horrific rape cases. But beyond that, many of us choose not to know. India\u2019s global image now mimics China\u2019s \u2013 a rising global economic power with attractive trade and investment opportunities. As a result, business trumps human rights, with little concern, especially on the part of David Cameron\u2019s government, for the rising wave of Hindu tyranny.All this is good news for Prime Minister Modi, who flew into London today. He won\u2019t be seriously called to account for human rights abuses or systematic thuggery. If there is one thing that has marked the man\u2019s first year and a half in power it is this: he is not a man who takes kindly to scrutiny or criticism. In fact, he has used the very economic agenda that causes Britain to turn a blind eye to his regime\u2019s human rights abuses to muzzle dissent within India.Modi\u2019s latest move has been the strangulation of Greenpeace India, culminating last Friday with the organisation\u2019s licence to operate being removed. Respect for human rights and environmental organisations is so often a litmus test for the democratic state of a country. Worryingly, the Indian government has been cracking down on all \u201cforeign-funded\u201d charities for the past year, claiming that the national economy is threatened by environmental restrictions and other \u201cun-Indian\u201d activities. Nine thousand NGOs have been \u201cde-registered\u201d in a concerted effort to force out these \u201cnuisance\u201d groups and cast them as foreign enemies.Of late, many Indian journalists and human rights activists have been harassed and threatened with \u201csedition\u201d charges: for example, Teesta Setalvad, who still seeks justice for the victims of communal violence in the state of Gujarat in 2002, when Modi was the state\u2019s chief minister; and Santosh Yadav, arrested in September in the state of Chhattisgarh on what Amnesty International believes are fabricated charges resulting from his investigatory journalism exposing police brutality against Adivasis (indigenous people). A few weeks ago, even a musician who sang a satirical song criticising the chief minister and state government of Tamil Nadu over alcohol sales was charged with \u201canti-Indian activity\u201d.This alarming erosion of democracy is a slippery slope that may end up targeting not just minorities and \u201coutsiders\u201d but any dissenting \u201cinsiders\u201d. What I\u2019ve seen happening is a spirit of fear taking hold, which threatens to silence activists, artists and intellectuals alike. We\u2019ve never known that before. Related: Narendra Modi\u2019s UK visit is a historic moment for our very special relationship | Keith Vaz A Hindu version of the Taliban is asserting itself, in which Indians are being told: \u201cIt\u2019s either this view \u2013 or else.\u201d A friend told me: \u201cThere is huge oppression of anyone who\u2019s different.\u201d Last month, dozens of Indian writers handed back their literary awards in protest, following communal violence against Muslims and attacks on intellectuals.India is a country of 1.25 billion people, including 965 million Hindus and 170 million Muslims. We have a long tradition of tolerance and, despite differences, have managed to pull our huge country together. But the government\u2019s militant Hinduism risks marginalising other faiths and tearing apart these bonds. Many of us dread what might then happen.We in Britain cannot bite our tongues any more; we have a responsibility to speak out. And we need to work on at least two fronts: demand that Cameron not make business deals at the cost of human rights, and press Modi to answer for the Indian government\u2019s abysmal rights record; and recognise and support the many Indian citizens, journalists and organisations that are resisting growing Hindu fanaticism and state authoritarianism.I\u2019ll be joining protesters outside Downing Street today. Following the lead of India\u2019s opposition groups, we have a duty to speak out for the people Modi is trying to silence, precisely because we are free to do so.\u2022 This article was amended on 13 November 2015. An earlier version referred to criticism of the state governor, rather than the chief minister and state government, of Tamil Nadu.", "tags": ["India", "Narendra Modi", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Foreign policy", "Politics"], "title": "India is being ruled by a Hindu Taliban | Anish Kapoor"},{"date": "2015-10-02T06:57:24Z", "country": "india", "content": "India, the world\u2019s third biggest greenhouse gas emitter, has pledged to source 40% of its electricity from renewable and other low-carbon sources by 2030.It is the last major economy, following 140 other countries including China, the US and the EU, to submit a climate change plan to the UN before international talks to reach a deal on tackling global warming in Paris this December.Campaigners welcomed the commitment to cut the \u201cemissions intensity\u201d of its economy \u2013 a ratio of carbon emissions per unit of GDP \u2013 by up to 35% by 2030. India\u2019s population of 1.2 billion, about 363 million of whom live in poverty, is projected to grow to 1.5 billion by 2030. \u201cIt is estimated that more than half of India of 2030 is yet to be built,\u201d India\u2019s submission claimed.The country has previously pledged an emissions intensity cut of up to 25% by 2020.Prakash Javadekar, India\u2019s environment minister, said: \u201cThough India is not part of the problem, it wants to be part of the solution. Our historical cumulative emission as of today is below 3%.\u201d Related: Coal is not the answer to India's energy poverty, whatever Tony Abbott says | EAS Sarma In a speech in New York, he referenced the pope\u2019s address to the UN last week and emphasised that while India was a big emitter, it was responsible for less carbon pollution than many developed countries since the industrial revolution. \u201cThe developed world must take moral responsibility for the state of the world today. The pope has also mentioned that the huge consumption of the developed world has repercussions on the developing world,\u201d Javadekar said.India\u2019s submission to the UN, known as its Intended Nationally Determined Contribution (INDC), focuses on clean energy, including solar power, which the prime minister, Narendra Modi, has already strongly backed. It also promised to plant more forests by 2030 to absorb carbon emissions.Modi has repeatedly said India would not accept constraints on its development as part of any climate deal. Unlike China\u2019s submission to the UN in June, India\u2019s does not spell out when its emissions might peak.Most environment groups and thinktanks said the plan, which was submitted to the UN late on Thursday, was good and recognised the impacts global warming would have on India.Rhea Suh, the president of the US-based Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC), said: \u201cIndia\u2019s strong climate plan offers a comprehensive approach to curb the worst impacts of climate change.\u201dGermana Canzi, an analyst at UK-based Energy and Climate Intelligence Unit, hailed India\u2019s pledge as significant and said: \u201cThe path of that India will now take in its development is extremely important for the future of the climate, particularly as the country is set to surpass China to become the world\u2019s most populous country by 2028, with 1.45 billion people.\u201dNitin Pandit, CEO of the World Resources Institute in India, said: \u201cAs one of the most vulnerable countries to climate change, India recognises the domestic benefits of confronting this issue. Its climate plan does a good job combining opportunities to reduce emissions in the near term, and it includes clear goals to restore landscapes that will bring long-term benefits.\u201dBut Durwood Zaelke, a climate change expert and long-time campaigner on the need to phase out climate-changing gases such as HFCs as part of the effort against global warming, said India \u201ccould do much better\u201d, and \u201ceasily\u201d, if it agreed to phase out HFCs, which are used in air conditioning. Unlike the largely dry language of submissions by the US and EU, India\u2019s contains colourful passages explaining its attitude towards the environment, citing its long tradition of a harmonious relationship between man and nature. Mahatma Gandhi is invoked several times, including his comment that \u201cEarth has enough resources to meet people\u2019s needs, but will never have enough to satisfy people\u2019s greed.\u201dThe Philippines also made an informal indication of its plans to cut its carbon emissions by 70% by 2030 but only if it receives financial assistance, a presidential aide told Reuters news agency on Friday.An analysis of 140 countries\u2019 pledges to the UN so far found this week that they would see temperatures rise to 2.7C above pre-industrial levels by 2100. Governments at previous climate talks have committed to holding rises to 2C.The quest for a deal in Paris is intensifying, according to Laurence Tubiana, the French ambassador for climate change, speaking during a Google hangout on Friday.She said that countries must come up with adequate emissions reductions, and that all countries - including the poorest - must be involved in the deal. An additional pre-meeting will also take place in Paris two weeks before the actual summit which starts on 30 November, she confirmed, in an attempt to iron out any remaining difficult issues in advance.\u2022 Additional reporting by Fiona Harvey", "tags": ["Climate change", "India", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Renewable energy", "COP 21: UN climate change conference | Paris", "Energy", "Environment", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Global climate talks", "Nuclear power", "Coal", "Fossil fuels"], "title": "India unveils climate change plan"},{"date": "2015-10-24T05:45:11Z", "country": "india", "content": "The white dome of the Taj Mahal glows pale orange at dawn as hundreds of tourists scuffle towards the great mausoleum. My wife, son, mother and I arrive early to witness the sunrise, to beat the heat and the exhausting crowds, and to touch the marble walls while they are still cool. Like countless visitors before us, we have our photograph taken in front of the Taj with postcard precision. Our smiles suggest a joy in our own adventures.Later that day we fly home to Bangalore in the south, where my family and I have been living. When the sun rises the following day, we find my mother lying dead on the floor of our flat.With the help of our extraordinary neighbours, a colonel in the Indian army and his wife, the panic of not knowing what steps to take with a dead relative in India is stilled, and within minutes friends and neighbours offer us solace. They knew we\u2019d been travelling with my mother and, to a person, their first words to us are, \u201cShe had a good death.\u201dI\u2019d lost loved ones before, most after long, painful illnesses with lingering spells in hospitals draining them of spirit and vigour. I didn\u2019t believe there was such a thing as a good death. But if I\u2019d known my mother was going to die on that sunny Sunday morning in February, I\u2019d probably have hoped it turned out exactly like it did.My mother, Kristine, had never had any desire to see India. She lived in Toronto, Canada, and the thought of visiting the dusty, crowded chaos of the Asian sub-continent was about as appealing to her as eating a five-alarm prawn curry for breakfast every morning. But as soon as I told her we planned to live for two years in India, she asked when it would be convenient for her to visit.She first travelled to Bangalore to see us in January, 2014, and we took her to Kerala for a backwater houseboat cruise, a delightful beach holiday on the Arabian Sea and a few days in ancient Kochi. Like so many other westerners, my mother was changed by India \u2013 she wrote in her journal that she was no longer afraid, feeling perfectly capable of flagging down an auto-rickshaw by herself and wishing she could share her new love of the country with those who would never get to see it \u2013 shedding her earlier apprehensions and anxious to return.For her second visit a year later, we planned a thrilling two weeks through Rajasthan, home of Mughal empires, distinctive art and architecture. This time she arrived excited and eager.On her last morning, she saw the Taj\u00a0Mahal at sunrise.While many senior citizens scramble\u00a0to meet the demands of their bucket list, Kristine crossed off items that she didn\u2019t even know were on a list, her joy\u00a0greater for the surprises.I knew my mother wanted to be cremated. There are better ways of using precious earth, she\u2019d told me, than burying people in it. And though she might have been happy to have her ashes left in India, it seemed only right that I take them home to Canada to scatter with all of her family present. Besides, it\u2019s easier to transport a small urn than a complete body.A cremation, it turns out, is easy to arrange in India where just obtaining a sim card requires a thick sheaf of paperwork, photo ID and the patience of a saint. It\u2019s also far more rewarding.At the crematorium, I sat with my mother\u2019s body in a quiet tiled room as we waited our turn \u2013 it was a busy day for cremations. Outside the window I heard crying and shouting and singing. The sounds of sadness were mixed with the unmistakable bustle of a collective, accompanied by the floral aromas of burning incense and garlands blanketing the white-bearded man\u2019s body, which was being washed by loved ones. This group was sad and happy, joyously celebrating a life while offering their shared grief to whomever was listening.Looking back at my mother lying there, covered discreetly with a plain white sheet, I thought something was missing. The Indian mourners outside grieved openly under the bright sun, celebrating despite their sorrow. Inside, it was solemn and melancholy. We found some flowers to place over and around her, allowing Kristine to end her bodily existence in a way that she surely would have appreciated since becoming so enraptured with the humanity of India.My friends and I carried her to the oven. I watched her body begin to burn before the door clanged shut.This never could have happened in the society in which I\u2019d grown up. My culture\u2019s habits in dealing with death are private, behind-the-scenes, all arrangements taken care of. If our loved ones are laid out for us to view, they are made beautiful. Funerals are, traditionally, solemn, mournful and gloomy occasions marked by kind reflections and \u201crespectful\u201d whispers. We don\u2019t want to risk offending the mourners or, even worse, the deceased.And when the bereaved are overcome by grief, we don\u2019t know how to react because we can\u2019t stand seeing people in pain. We want them to stop crying, stop wailing, stop sinking deeper and deeper into their own misery because we\u2019re sure that will make them feel better. But really we\u2019re just trying to make it easier for ourselves.With my mother\u2019s good death, accompanied by the celebratory way we dealt with her body, those of us who had lost her were given the permission to find happiness from the end of an extraordinary life. If I learned anything from my fellow Indian mourners, it\u2019s that it\u2019s much easier to be sad when there is joy.\u201cIt was all worth it,\u201d Kristine had said, looking out over the Yamuna river that arcs quietly behind the Taj like a swooping brush-stroke.It wasn\u2019t just the trek through the desert on camels, trains and bicycles, scaling hilltop forts and palaces, waking up before dawn and driving through the dark to the Taj that was worth it. To her, at that moment, everything in her life was worth it. And she\u2019d been able to share the whole adventure with her family.Jon Magidsohn\u2019s book, Immortal Highway, will be published shortly by Iguana. jonmagidsohn.com/memoir/", "tags": ["Family", "Death and dying", "Parents and parenting", "Bereavement", "Life and style"], "title": "My mother\u2019s good death in India"},{"date": "2015-12-21T14:48:18Z", "country": "india", "content": "An officially sponsored Taj Mahal trip by Orlando Bloom to encourage more foreign tourists to visit went awry at the weekend when the British actor was denied entry to India at Delhi airport.Bloom, who had been invited to visit the monument in Agra by the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh state, was told to get on a flight back to London three hours after touching down early on Saturday morning. The reason: his e-visa, for which he had reportedly applied in November, had not been cleared.\u201cThe immigration officials were insensitive and stubborn, and though Bloom was feeling uneasy and needed a doctor he wasn\u2019t even allowed to sit,\u201d said Amar Singh, a prominent Uttar Pradesh politician who had gone to receive the actor. \u201cThey kept saying, \u2018Bloom is an actor, so he is doing drama.\u2019\u201dOfficials refused to provide Bloom with a 72-hour temporary landing permit that would have allowed him to visit Agra.Singh added: \u201cBut Bloom is so humble and down-to-earth \u2026 Even though he was being deported from India, he readily agreed to fly back from Heathrow the same day if I succeeded in arranging his visa. No Bollywood star would\u2019ve done that.\u201dWhile the actor, whose mother was born in India, waited at Heathrow, Singh asked the Indian foreign minister, Sushma Swaraj, to get the Indian high commission in London to open its visa section and provide him with the document. With TV news cameras in tow, Bloom finally went to Agra with Singh on Sunday on a whirlwind, 45-minute tour. \u201cAt the end of his visit, he moved away from the group and sat by himself cross-legged in front of the 17th-century marble monument, eyes closed, chanting a prayer,\u201d said a Taj Mahal official. Tourism officials have been hoping that a decline in the popularity of the Taj Mahal during the last three years could be turned around by celebrity visits such as Bloom\u2019s.Though the Taj Mahal remains India\u2019s most-visited monument, the number of tourists coming to the site has declined sharply by 150,000 during the last three years. Last year only 640,000 tourists turned up. However, the introduction of e-visas has proved popular with tourists, especially in the UK. Nearly a quarter of the more than 340,000 e-visas issued by India this year have gone to British tourists.", "tags": ["India", "Film", "Culture", "South and Central Asia", "World news"], "title": "Orlando Bloom denied entry to India \u2013 despite being invited"},{"date": "2015-12-09T19:30:49Z", "country": "india", "content": "Relations between Pakistan and India improved dramatically on Wednesday when the two sparring nuclear-armed neighbours agreed to unrestricted talks after years of disagreeing terms of any discussions of their numerous disputes.The diplomatic breakthrough by two countries that regularly exchange fire across their contested borders was announced at the end of a regional summit in Islamabad where officials also hinted at a possible revival of talks between the Afghan government and \u201cTaliban groups\u201d.The restarting of a \u201ccomprehensive bilateral dialogue\u201d was announced by India\u2019s top diplomat Sushma Swaraj, the first Indian foreign minister to visit Pakistan since 2012.High-ranking officials from the nuclear-armed neighbours have held precious few meetings since the election of Narendra Modi as prime minister of India in May 2014 given his government\u2019s insistence that talks focus on battling terrorism and not the contested region of Kashmir, a key Pakistan concern.On Wednesday Swaraj not only met with Nawaz Sharif, the Pakistani prime minister, and his top foreign affairs adviser, but also agreed to start a dialogue process that would include Kashmir and other border disputes.Pakistan said it was taking steps to bring about the \u201cearly conclusion\u201d of the stalled trial of those involved in the 2008 terror attacks on Mumbai, India\u2019s financial capital, which was masterminded by Lashkar-e-Taiba, a Pakistani militant group.Earlier in the day Swaraj told representatives of 31 countries gathered for the Heart of Asia conference on the future of Afghanistan that it was time for India and Pakistan to display \u201cthe maturity and self-confidence to do business with each other and strengthen regional trade and cooperation\u201d.She added: \u201cThe entire world is waiting and rooting for a change. Let us not disappoint them.\u201dThe change in tack had been presaged by a closed-door meeting in Bangkok on Sunday between the two countries\u2019 national security advisers, which itself followed an informal conversation between Modi and Sharif on the sidelines of the Paris climate change conference the week before.Analysts said India softened its position after a string of state elections when it was in the interest of Modi\u2019s Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata party to strike a hawkish, populist line against Pakistan. Related: Afghanistan security 'undermined by efforts to crush Pakistani militants' In a busy day of diplomacy, the Heart of Asia summit also saw officials from leading countries hint at fresh talks between the Taliban and the Afghan government which were abandoned after just one round this summer.Antony J Blinken, US deputy secretary of state, said the Afghan and Pakistani leaders renewed their commitment to an \u201cAfghan owned and Afghan led\u201d process during meetings with senior diplomats from the US and China, in a sign of the powerful international pressures for a peaceful end to the war.Blinken said the first Pakistani-brokered meeting between Afghan officials and authorised Taliban representatives in a hill town near Islamabad on 8 July had been a \u201cvery significant development\u201d and there was a \u201cclear desire to return to that process\u201d.Salahuddin Rabbani, the Afghan foreign minister, said he hoped to see positive moves in the coming weeks on peace talks.There are doubts over how quickly the talks can begin given the violent splits that developed within the Taliban after it was revealed in late July that the insurgency\u2019s spiritual leader Mullah Omar had been dead for two years.News of Omar\u2019s death triggered a sharp increase in attacks in Afghanistan as the Taliban\u2019s new leader Mullah Mansoor attempted to assert his authority over a movement divided over both his leadership and the wisdom of negotiating with the Kabul government.In a statement Pakistan\u2019s foreign ministry appeared to recognise the divisions by explicitly referring to multiple Taliban groups.Pakistan \u201cwill work to create conditions that encourage participation of Taliban groups in a peace process that demonstrates to them that they have a real option of political engagement\u201d, it said.The surge in violence, which many in Afghanistan believe is caused by clandestine Pakistani support for the rebels, heaped pressure on Ashraf Ghani, the Afghan president, to abandon his policy of making concessions to Islamabad to gain Pakistan\u2019s backing for peace talks.Afghanistan\u2019s enduring security crisis was highlighted on the eve of Ghani\u2019s arrival in Islamabad when 37 people were killed during a Taliban attack on Kandahar airport, a major civilian and military hub in the country\u2019s south.Ghani told the conference that steps taken by Pakistan against terrorism had further undermined Afghan security by flushing ever more militants across the border.He said Afghan special forces had been forced to launch more than 40 operations against the TTP and that the country was now a hotbed of international jihadi.\u201cAl-Qaida, [Isis] and terrorists from China, Russia, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, the Middle East are all, unfortunately, present on our soil,\u201d he said.Aziz Ahmed Khan, a former Pakistani ambassador to both Kabul and New Delhi, said there was now a \u201cray of hope\u201d for improved relations with India.However bitter experience meant \u201cyou should never be overly enthusiastic because you never know where the next stumbling block will come\u201d, he said.Khan doubted there would be an immediate resumption of talks with the Taliban saying there now needed to be an \u201cintra-Taliban reconciliation process\u201d.\u201cAshraf Ghani probably did have reason to be upset with us so the fact that he has come here and everyone has talked at the highest level is something,\u201d he said.", "tags": ["India", "Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Kashmir"], "title": "Pakistan and India agree to resume diplomatic dialogue"},{"date": "2015-12-04T10:45:14Z", "country": "india", "content": "Thousands of residents in Tamil Nadu have been moved from the area after experiencing the heaviest rains in more than a century, with those in the city of Chennai trying to escape the flooding.More than 3 million people have been cut off from basic services. The floods have also hampered rescue efforts by the army, which has picked up 18,000 people from rooftops and outlying villages.If you are affected by the flooding in south India, we\u2019d like to hear from you. We\u2019re interested in photographs of areas both before and after they have been affected by any severe weather. We\u2019ll include a selection of photographs and videos on the site. You can also download the Guardian app and search for \u2018GuardianWitness assignments\u2019 \u2013 and if you add it to the homepage \u2013 you can keep up with all our assignments. If you\u2019re on Instagram you can contribute using #GuardianWitness. You can also contact us using Whatsapp on +447867825056, but please stay safe. Terms and conditions here.Though we\u2019d like to hear from you, your safety and security is most important. When responding to this assignment, please make sure you put your safety and the safety of others first. Extreme weather events can be very unpredictable and carry very real risks.", "tags": ["Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news"], "title": "South India flooding: share your photos and experiences"},{"date": "2015-11-12T17:33:54Z", "country": "india", "content": "The Hindu god Vishnu has several incarnations, many of them human. The latest of these appears to be Narendra Modi. All over India there are images of the man, right arm raised in the benevolent gesture of good fortune. But this strong-but-enlightened-man image hides the frightening and shrill reality of an increasingly Modi-led Hindu dominance of India. Related: For years Britain shunned Narendra Modi. So why roll out the red carpet now? | Aditya Chakrabortty The country\u2019s openness to social and religious minorities (more than 500 million people) and regional differences is at serious risk. Of late, Modi\u2019s regime has effectively tolerated \u2013 if not encouraged \u2013 a saffron-clad army of Hindu activists who monitor and violently discipline those suspected of eating beef, disobeying caste rules or betraying the \u201cHindu nation\u201d.In the UK, people might perhaps be familiar with India\u2019s cricket prowess, atrocities in Kashmir or the recent horrific rape cases. But beyond that, many of us choose not to know. India\u2019s global image now mimics China\u2019s \u2013 a rising global economic power with attractive trade and investment opportunities. As a result, business trumps human rights, with little concern, especially on the part of David Cameron\u2019s government, for the rising wave of Hindu tyranny.All this is good news for Prime Minister Modi, who flew into London today. He won\u2019t be seriously called to account for human rights abuses or systematic thuggery. If there is one thing that has marked the man\u2019s first year and a half in power it is this: he is not a man who takes kindly to scrutiny or criticism. In fact, he has used the very economic agenda that causes Britain to turn a blind eye to his regime\u2019s human rights abuses to muzzle dissent within India.Modi\u2019s latest move has been the strangulation of Greenpeace India, culminating last Friday with the organisation\u2019s licence to operate being removed. Respect for human rights and environmental organisations is so often a litmus test for the democratic state of a country. Worryingly, the Indian government has been cracking down on all \u201cforeign-funded\u201d charities for the past year, claiming that the national economy is threatened by environmental restrictions and other \u201cun-Indian\u201d activities. Nine thousand NGOs have been \u201cde-registered\u201d in a concerted effort to force out these \u201cnuisance\u201d groups and cast them as foreign enemies.Of late, many Indian journalists and human rights activists have been harassed and threatened with \u201csedition\u201d charges: for example, Teesta Setalvad, who still seeks justice for the victims of communal violence in the state of Gujarat in 2002, when Modi was the state\u2019s chief minister; and Santosh Yadav, arrested in September in the state of Chhattisgarh on what Amnesty International believes are fabricated charges resulting from his investigatory journalism exposing police brutality against Adivasis (indigenous people). A few weeks ago, even a musician who sang a satirical song criticising the chief minister and state government of Tamil Nadu over alcohol sales was charged with \u201canti-Indian activity\u201d.This alarming erosion of democracy is a slippery slope that may end up targeting not just minorities and \u201coutsiders\u201d but any dissenting \u201cinsiders\u201d. What I\u2019ve seen happening is a spirit of fear taking hold, which threatens to silence activists, artists and intellectuals alike. We\u2019ve never known that before. Related: Narendra Modi\u2019s UK visit is a historic moment for our very special relationship | Keith Vaz A Hindu version of the Taliban is asserting itself, in which Indians are being told: \u201cIt\u2019s either this view \u2013 or else.\u201d A friend told me: \u201cThere is huge oppression of anyone who\u2019s different.\u201d Last month, dozens of Indian writers handed back their literary awards in protest, following communal violence against Muslims and attacks on intellectuals.India is a country of 1.25 billion people, including 965 million Hindus and 170 million Muslims. We have a long tradition of tolerance and, despite differences, have managed to pull our huge country together. But the government\u2019s militant Hinduism risks marginalising other faiths and tearing apart these bonds. Many of us dread what might then happen.We in Britain cannot bite our tongues any more; we have a responsibility to speak out. And we need to work on at least two fronts: demand that Cameron not make business deals at the cost of human rights, and press Modi to answer for the Indian government\u2019s abysmal rights record; and recognise and support the many Indian citizens, journalists and organisations that are resisting growing Hindu fanaticism and state authoritarianism.I\u2019ll be joining protesters outside Downing Street today. Following the lead of India\u2019s opposition groups, we have a duty to speak out for the people Modi is trying to silence, precisely because we are free to do so.\u2022 This article was amended on 13 November 2015. An earlier version referred to criticism of the state governor, rather than the chief minister and state government, of Tamil Nadu.", "tags": ["India", "Narendra Modi", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Foreign policy", "Politics"], "title": "India is being ruled by a Hindu Taliban | Anish Kapoor"},{"date": "2015-10-24T08:00:03Z", "country": "india", "content": "In India, transgender people \u2013 or hijras \u2013 have been discriminated against for centuries and in legislative terms since the early days of British crown rule. Denied identity papers and passports, most have lived as outcasts in abject poverty, earning their living as sex workers or by flaunting their sexual appearance. In 2005 Jeeva, aged 32, was angry that authorities mocked transsexuals like her. Once, she says, a policeman \u201ccalled me \u2018it\u2019 as if I were an animal. He pointed at me and called out to the other officers, \u2018Look at it! What is it?\u2019\u201dIn her city, Chennai, there were estimated to be 2,000 third-gender sex workers, most of whom practised unprotected sex and had never been tested for HIV or Aids. Five years later, Jeeva\u2019s dreams had begun to be realised. Her state, Tamil Nadu, had been the first in India to recognise transgender people, granting them ID papers and so opening the doors to mainstream life. Now they could attend university and start up businesses, and they qualified for bank loans. The changes also removed many obstacles to having stable partners, therefore reducing promiscuous behaviour. Jeeva earned a BA degree in sociology, and made plans to study law. In 2007, she formed the Transgender Rights Association, to support and protect her community.In 2014, in a landmark ruling, India\u2019s supreme court recognised transgender people as a legal third gender. Nevertheless, Jeeva continues to advocate for transgender rights as well as to spread awareness of safe sex.Jeeva says: \u201cTransgender people faced many dangers in the times before recognition, before the availability of surgery. In those days we had little choice but to sell ourselves. Now times are better, much better, for there is less discrimination. Yet there is still much work to be done.\u201d In 2005, Ayaaz, from Chennai, was 10. The previous year, his father developed a fever and a chronic cough. He was admitted to a TB hospital, where he developed mouth ulcers so severe he could not eat. He grew very weak and died after a few days. At the time, Ayaaz\u2019s mother didn\u2019t know he had died of Aids \u2013 she didn\u2019t even know about the illness. After Ayaaz\u2019s father died, both his mother and six-year-old brother Aftab tested HIV positive, but Ayaaz and his two-year old sister were negative. Ayaaz left school because he needed to support his family. He worked sorting second-hand clothes for his uncle\u2019s business, a 10-hour shift for 10 rupees (14p) a day. Ayaaz\u2019s mother searched for work, wanting him to study, but she couldn\u2019t afford to be without his income. Ayaaz\u2019s mother still found it difficult to accept her status. \u201cBeing a woman of faith, I wondered, \u2018Why me?\u2019\u201d she said. \u201cI was very angry with my husband as my younger son was also infected. I want to provide my children with a good life for as long as I can.\u201dAyaaz missed four years of school but \u2013 thanks to a neighbour and teacher who both tutored him and helped to support the family \u2013 he was able to resume his studies. In 2010, aged 15, he was one of the top students in his class. He and his brother Aftab\u2019s prospects had improved because orphanages had taken them in. Ayaaz\u2019s mother missed the support of her eldest son, and found life difficult, surviving with the wages of menial cleaning jobs. She was often overcome by tiredness due to her antiretroviral therapy.In 2011, Ayaaz had to give up his education again. \u201cI didn\u2019t want my mother to be alone,\u201d he said, his voice full of emotion. \u201cIf I went back to school now I wouldn\u2019t be able to work and support the family.\u201d Nevertheless, Aftab, who was desperately undernourished and ill, had to be left in the care of an orphanage. Once a year Ayaaz and his mother would make the four-hour bus journey to visit him there. In most Indian orphanages, children receive few visitors because many parents can afford neither the bus fare nor the loss of a day\u2019s income. Aftab was one of 33 HIV-positive children at this orphanage. The staff \u2013 all of whom are also HIV positive \u2013 administered the free antiretroviral therapy. Across the country, infected children have been stigmatised, expelled from school, even stoned to death. An infected orphan \u2013 the sole survivor of a family of seven \u2013 was kept in a yard like a dog, forbidden to come indoors, until rescued by aid workers. Aftab has kept his medical status secret from classmates at school. \u201cI never tell anyone,\u201d he says. \u201cIf I did, I am frightened that they would snub me.\u201d", "tags": ["Global development", "LGBT rights", "India", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "A journey across four continents: Danziger's tales from India | Rory MacLean"},{"date": "2015-10-02T06:57:24Z", "country": "india", "content": "India, the world\u2019s third biggest greenhouse gas emitter, has pledged to source 40% of its electricity from renewable and other low-carbon sources by 2030.It is the last major economy, following 140 other countries including China, the US and the EU, to submit a climate change plan to the UN before international talks to reach a deal on tackling global warming in Paris this December.Campaigners welcomed the commitment to cut the \u201cemissions intensity\u201d of its economy \u2013 a ratio of carbon emissions per unit of GDP \u2013 by up to 35% by 2030. India\u2019s population of 1.2 billion, about 363 million of whom live in poverty, is projected to grow to 1.5 billion by 2030. \u201cIt is estimated that more than half of India of 2030 is yet to be built,\u201d India\u2019s submission claimed.The country has previously pledged an emissions intensity cut of up to 25% by 2020.Prakash Javadekar, India\u2019s environment minister, said: \u201cThough India is not part of the problem, it wants to be part of the solution. Our historical cumulative emission as of today is below 3%.\u201d Related: Coal is not the answer to India's energy poverty, whatever Tony Abbott says | EAS Sarma In a speech in New York, he referenced the pope\u2019s address to the UN last week and emphasised that while India was a big emitter, it was responsible for less carbon pollution than many developed countries since the industrial revolution. \u201cThe developed world must take moral responsibility for the state of the world today. The pope has also mentioned that the huge consumption of the developed world has repercussions on the developing world,\u201d Javadekar said.India\u2019s submission to the UN, known as its Intended Nationally Determined Contribution (INDC), focuses on clean energy, including solar power, which the prime minister, Narendra Modi, has already strongly backed. It also promised to plant more forests by 2030 to absorb carbon emissions.Modi has repeatedly said India would not accept constraints on its development as part of any climate deal. Unlike China\u2019s submission to the UN in June, India\u2019s does not spell out when its emissions might peak.Most environment groups and thinktanks said the plan, which was submitted to the UN late on Thursday, was good and recognised the impacts global warming would have on India.Rhea Suh, the president of the US-based Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC), said: \u201cIndia\u2019s strong climate plan offers a comprehensive approach to curb the worst impacts of climate change.\u201dGermana Canzi, an analyst at UK-based Energy and Climate Intelligence Unit, hailed India\u2019s pledge as significant and said: \u201cThe path of that India will now take in its development is extremely important for the future of the climate, particularly as the country is set to surpass China to become the world\u2019s most populous country by 2028, with 1.45 billion people.\u201dNitin Pandit, CEO of the World Resources Institute in India, said: \u201cAs one of the most vulnerable countries to climate change, India recognises the domestic benefits of confronting this issue. Its climate plan does a good job combining opportunities to reduce emissions in the near term, and it includes clear goals to restore landscapes that will bring long-term benefits.\u201dBut Durwood Zaelke, a climate change expert and long-time campaigner on the need to phase out climate-changing gases such as HFCs as part of the effort against global warming, said India \u201ccould do much better\u201d, and \u201ceasily\u201d, if it agreed to phase out HFCs, which are used in air conditioning. Unlike the largely dry language of submissions by the US and EU, India\u2019s contains colourful passages explaining its attitude towards the environment, citing its long tradition of a harmonious relationship between man and nature. Mahatma Gandhi is invoked several times, including his comment that \u201cEarth has enough resources to meet people\u2019s needs, but will never have enough to satisfy people\u2019s greed.\u201dThe Philippines also made an informal indication of its plans to cut its carbon emissions by 70% by 2030 but only if it receives financial assistance, a presidential aide told Reuters news agency on Friday.An analysis of 140 countries\u2019 pledges to the UN so far found this week that they would see temperatures rise to 2.7C above pre-industrial levels by 2100. Governments at previous climate talks have committed to holding rises to 2C.The quest for a deal in Paris is intensifying, according to Laurence Tubiana, the French ambassador for climate change, speaking during a Google hangout on Friday.She said that countries must come up with adequate emissions reductions, and that all countries - including the poorest - must be involved in the deal. An additional pre-meeting will also take place in Paris two weeks before the actual summit which starts on 30 November, she confirmed, in an attempt to iron out any remaining difficult issues in advance.\u2022 Additional reporting by Fiona Harvey", "tags": ["Climate change", "India", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Renewable energy", "COP 21: UN climate change conference | Paris", "Energy", "Environment", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Global climate talks", "Nuclear power", "Coal", "Fossil fuels"], "title": "India unveils climate change plan"},{"date": "2015-10-24T05:45:11Z", "country": "india", "content": "The white dome of the Taj Mahal glows pale orange at dawn as hundreds of tourists scuffle towards the great mausoleum. My wife, son, mother and I arrive early to witness the sunrise, to beat the heat and the exhausting crowds, and to touch the marble walls while they are still cool. Like countless visitors before us, we have our photograph taken in front of the Taj with postcard precision. Our smiles suggest a joy in our own adventures.Later that day we fly home to Bangalore in the south, where my family and I have been living. When the sun rises the following day, we find my mother lying dead on the floor of our flat.With the help of our extraordinary neighbours, a colonel in the Indian army and his wife, the panic of not knowing what steps to take with a dead relative in India is stilled, and within minutes friends and neighbours offer us solace. They knew we\u2019d been travelling with my mother and, to a person, their first words to us are, \u201cShe had a good death.\u201dI\u2019d lost loved ones before, most after long, painful illnesses with lingering spells in hospitals draining them of spirit and vigour. I didn\u2019t believe there was such a thing as a good death. But if I\u2019d known my mother was going to die on that sunny Sunday morning in February, I\u2019d probably have hoped it turned out exactly like it did.My mother, Kristine, had never had any desire to see India. She lived in Toronto, Canada, and the thought of visiting the dusty, crowded chaos of the Asian sub-continent was about as appealing to her as eating a five-alarm prawn curry for breakfast every morning. But as soon as I told her we planned to live for two years in India, she asked when it would be convenient for her to visit.She first travelled to Bangalore to see us in January, 2014, and we took her to Kerala for a backwater houseboat cruise, a delightful beach holiday on the Arabian Sea and a few days in ancient Kochi. Like so many other westerners, my mother was changed by India \u2013 she wrote in her journal that she was no longer afraid, feeling perfectly capable of flagging down an auto-rickshaw by herself and wishing she could share her new love of the country with those who would never get to see it \u2013 shedding her earlier apprehensions and anxious to return.For her second visit a year later, we planned a thrilling two weeks through Rajasthan, home of Mughal empires, distinctive art and architecture. This time she arrived excited and eager.On her last morning, she saw the Taj\u00a0Mahal at sunrise.While many senior citizens scramble\u00a0to meet the demands of their bucket list, Kristine crossed off items that she didn\u2019t even know were on a list, her joy\u00a0greater for the surprises.I knew my mother wanted to be cremated. There are better ways of using precious earth, she\u2019d told me, than burying people in it. And though she might have been happy to have her ashes left in India, it seemed only right that I take them home to Canada to scatter with all of her family present. Besides, it\u2019s easier to transport a small urn than a complete body.A cremation, it turns out, is easy to arrange in India where just obtaining a sim card requires a thick sheaf of paperwork, photo ID and the patience of a saint. It\u2019s also far more rewarding.At the crematorium, I sat with my mother\u2019s body in a quiet tiled room as we waited our turn \u2013 it was a busy day for cremations. Outside the window I heard crying and shouting and singing. The sounds of sadness were mixed with the unmistakable bustle of a collective, accompanied by the floral aromas of burning incense and garlands blanketing the white-bearded man\u2019s body, which was being washed by loved ones. This group was sad and happy, joyously celebrating a life while offering their shared grief to whomever was listening.Looking back at my mother lying there, covered discreetly with a plain white sheet, I thought something was missing. The Indian mourners outside grieved openly under the bright sun, celebrating despite their sorrow. Inside, it was solemn and melancholy. We found some flowers to place over and around her, allowing Kristine to end her bodily existence in a way that she surely would have appreciated since becoming so enraptured with the humanity of India.My friends and I carried her to the oven. I watched her body begin to burn before the door clanged shut.This never could have happened in the society in which I\u2019d grown up. My culture\u2019s habits in dealing with death are private, behind-the-scenes, all arrangements taken care of. If our loved ones are laid out for us to view, they are made beautiful. Funerals are, traditionally, solemn, mournful and gloomy occasions marked by kind reflections and \u201crespectful\u201d whispers. We don\u2019t want to risk offending the mourners or, even worse, the deceased.And when the bereaved are overcome by grief, we don\u2019t know how to react because we can\u2019t stand seeing people in pain. We want them to stop crying, stop wailing, stop sinking deeper and deeper into their own misery because we\u2019re sure that will make them feel better. But really we\u2019re just trying to make it easier for ourselves.With my mother\u2019s good death, accompanied by the celebratory way we dealt with her body, those of us who had lost her were given the permission to find happiness from the end of an extraordinary life. If I learned anything from my fellow Indian mourners, it\u2019s that it\u2019s much easier to be sad when there is joy.\u201cIt was all worth it,\u201d Kristine had said, looking out over the Yamuna river that arcs quietly behind the Taj like a swooping brush-stroke.It wasn\u2019t just the trek through the desert on camels, trains and bicycles, scaling hilltop forts and palaces, waking up before dawn and driving through the dark to the Taj that was worth it. To her, at that moment, everything in her life was worth it. And she\u2019d been able to share the whole adventure with her family.Jon Magidsohn\u2019s book, Immortal Highway, will be published shortly by Iguana. jonmagidsohn.com/memoir/", "tags": ["Family", "Death and dying", "Parents and parenting", "Bereavement", "Life and style"], "title": "My mother\u2019s good death in India"},{"date": "2015-12-21T14:48:18Z", "country": "india", "content": "An officially sponsored Taj Mahal trip by Orlando Bloom to encourage more foreign tourists to visit went awry at the weekend when the British actor was denied entry to India at Delhi airport.Bloom, who had been invited to visit the monument in Agra by the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh state, was told to get on a flight back to London three hours after touching down early on Saturday morning. The reason: his e-visa, for which he had reportedly applied in November, had not been cleared.\u201cThe immigration officials were insensitive and stubborn, and though Bloom was feeling uneasy and needed a doctor he wasn\u2019t even allowed to sit,\u201d said Amar Singh, a prominent Uttar Pradesh politician who had gone to receive the actor. \u201cThey kept saying, \u2018Bloom is an actor, so he is doing drama.\u2019\u201dOfficials refused to provide Bloom with a 72-hour temporary landing permit that would have allowed him to visit Agra.Singh added: \u201cBut Bloom is so humble and down-to-earth \u2026 Even though he was being deported from India, he readily agreed to fly back from Heathrow the same day if I succeeded in arranging his visa. No Bollywood star would\u2019ve done that.\u201dWhile the actor, whose mother was born in India, waited at Heathrow, Singh asked the Indian foreign minister, Sushma Swaraj, to get the Indian high commission in London to open its visa section and provide him with the document. With TV news cameras in tow, Bloom finally went to Agra with Singh on Sunday on a whirlwind, 45-minute tour. \u201cAt the end of his visit, he moved away from the group and sat by himself cross-legged in front of the 17th-century marble monument, eyes closed, chanting a prayer,\u201d said a Taj Mahal official. Tourism officials have been hoping that a decline in the popularity of the Taj Mahal during the last three years could be turned around by celebrity visits such as Bloom\u2019s.Though the Taj Mahal remains India\u2019s most-visited monument, the number of tourists coming to the site has declined sharply by 150,000 during the last three years. Last year only 640,000 tourists turned up. However, the introduction of e-visas has proved popular with tourists, especially in the UK. Nearly a quarter of the more than 340,000 e-visas issued by India this year have gone to British tourists.", "tags": ["India", "Film", "Culture", "South and Central Asia", "World news"], "title": "Orlando Bloom denied entry to India \u2013 despite being invited"},{"date": "2015-12-09T19:30:49Z", "country": "india", "content": "Relations between Pakistan and India improved dramatically on Wednesday when the two sparring nuclear-armed neighbours agreed to unrestricted talks after years of disagreeing terms of any discussions of their numerous disputes.The diplomatic breakthrough by two countries that regularly exchange fire across their contested borders was announced at the end of a regional summit in Islamabad where officials also hinted at a possible revival of talks between the Afghan government and \u201cTaliban groups\u201d.The restarting of a \u201ccomprehensive bilateral dialogue\u201d was announced by India\u2019s top diplomat Sushma Swaraj, the first Indian foreign minister to visit Pakistan since 2012.High-ranking officials from the nuclear-armed neighbours have held precious few meetings since the election of Narendra Modi as prime minister of India in May 2014 given his government\u2019s insistence that talks focus on battling terrorism and not the contested region of Kashmir, a key Pakistan concern.On Wednesday Swaraj not only met with Nawaz Sharif, the Pakistani prime minister, and his top foreign affairs adviser, but also agreed to start a dialogue process that would include Kashmir and other border disputes.Pakistan said it was taking steps to bring about the \u201cearly conclusion\u201d of the stalled trial of those involved in the 2008 terror attacks on Mumbai, India\u2019s financial capital, which was masterminded by Lashkar-e-Taiba, a Pakistani militant group.Earlier in the day Swaraj told representatives of 31 countries gathered for the Heart of Asia conference on the future of Afghanistan that it was time for India and Pakistan to display \u201cthe maturity and self-confidence to do business with each other and strengthen regional trade and cooperation\u201d.She added: \u201cThe entire world is waiting and rooting for a change. Let us not disappoint them.\u201dThe change in tack had been presaged by a closed-door meeting in Bangkok on Sunday between the two countries\u2019 national security advisers, which itself followed an informal conversation between Modi and Sharif on the sidelines of the Paris climate change conference the week before.Analysts said India softened its position after a string of state elections when it was in the interest of Modi\u2019s Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata party to strike a hawkish, populist line against Pakistan. Related: Afghanistan security 'undermined by efforts to crush Pakistani militants' In a busy day of diplomacy, the Heart of Asia summit also saw officials from leading countries hint at fresh talks between the Taliban and the Afghan government which were abandoned after just one round this summer.Antony J Blinken, US deputy secretary of state, said the Afghan and Pakistani leaders renewed their commitment to an \u201cAfghan owned and Afghan led\u201d process during meetings with senior diplomats from the US and China, in a sign of the powerful international pressures for a peaceful end to the war.Blinken said the first Pakistani-brokered meeting between Afghan officials and authorised Taliban representatives in a hill town near Islamabad on 8 July had been a \u201cvery significant development\u201d and there was a \u201cclear desire to return to that process\u201d.Salahuddin Rabbani, the Afghan foreign minister, said he hoped to see positive moves in the coming weeks on peace talks.There are doubts over how quickly the talks can begin given the violent splits that developed within the Taliban after it was revealed in late July that the insurgency\u2019s spiritual leader Mullah Omar had been dead for two years.News of Omar\u2019s death triggered a sharp increase in attacks in Afghanistan as the Taliban\u2019s new leader Mullah Mansoor attempted to assert his authority over a movement divided over both his leadership and the wisdom of negotiating with the Kabul government.In a statement Pakistan\u2019s foreign ministry appeared to recognise the divisions by explicitly referring to multiple Taliban groups.Pakistan \u201cwill work to create conditions that encourage participation of Taliban groups in a peace process that demonstrates to them that they have a real option of political engagement\u201d, it said.The surge in violence, which many in Afghanistan believe is caused by clandestine Pakistani support for the rebels, heaped pressure on Ashraf Ghani, the Afghan president, to abandon his policy of making concessions to Islamabad to gain Pakistan\u2019s backing for peace talks.Afghanistan\u2019s enduring security crisis was highlighted on the eve of Ghani\u2019s arrival in Islamabad when 37 people were killed during a Taliban attack on Kandahar airport, a major civilian and military hub in the country\u2019s south.Ghani told the conference that steps taken by Pakistan against terrorism had further undermined Afghan security by flushing ever more militants across the border.He said Afghan special forces had been forced to launch more than 40 operations against the TTP and that the country was now a hotbed of international jihadi.\u201cAl-Qaida, [Isis] and terrorists from China, Russia, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, the Middle East are all, unfortunately, present on our soil,\u201d he said.Aziz Ahmed Khan, a former Pakistani ambassador to both Kabul and New Delhi, said there was now a \u201cray of hope\u201d for improved relations with India.However bitter experience meant \u201cyou should never be overly enthusiastic because you never know where the next stumbling block will come\u201d, he said.Khan doubted there would be an immediate resumption of talks with the Taliban saying there now needed to be an \u201cintra-Taliban reconciliation process\u201d.\u201cAshraf Ghani probably did have reason to be upset with us so the fact that he has come here and everyone has talked at the highest level is something,\u201d he said.", "tags": ["India", "Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Kashmir"], "title": "Pakistan and India agree to resume diplomatic dialogue"},{"date": "2015-12-04T10:45:14Z", "country": "india", "content": "Thousands of residents in Tamil Nadu have been moved from the area after experiencing the heaviest rains in more than a century, with those in the city of Chennai trying to escape the flooding.More than 3 million people have been cut off from basic services. The floods have also hampered rescue efforts by the army, which has picked up 18,000 people from rooftops and outlying villages.If you are affected by the flooding in south India, we\u2019d like to hear from you. We\u2019re interested in photographs of areas both before and after they have been affected by any severe weather. We\u2019ll include a selection of photographs and videos on the site. You can also download the Guardian app and search for \u2018GuardianWitness assignments\u2019 \u2013 and if you add it to the homepage \u2013 you can keep up with all our assignments. If you\u2019re on Instagram you can contribute using #GuardianWitness. You can also contact us using Whatsapp on +447867825056, but please stay safe. Terms and conditions here.Though we\u2019d like to hear from you, your safety and security is most important. When responding to this assignment, please make sure you put your safety and the safety of others first. Extreme weather events can be very unpredictable and carry very real risks.", "tags": ["Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news"], "title": "South India flooding: share your photos and experiences"},{"date": "2015-11-12T17:33:54Z", "country": "india", "content": "The Hindu god Vishnu has several incarnations, many of them human. The latest of these appears to be Narendra Modi. All over India there are images of the man, right arm raised in the benevolent gesture of good fortune. But this strong-but-enlightened-man image hides the frightening and shrill reality of an increasingly Modi-led Hindu dominance of India. Related: For years Britain shunned Narendra Modi. So why roll out the red carpet now? | Aditya Chakrabortty The country\u2019s openness to social and religious minorities (more than 500 million people) and regional differences is at serious risk. Of late, Modi\u2019s regime has effectively tolerated \u2013 if not encouraged \u2013 a saffron-clad army of Hindu activists who monitor and violently discipline those suspected of eating beef, disobeying caste rules or betraying the \u201cHindu nation\u201d.In the UK, people might perhaps be familiar with India\u2019s cricket prowess, atrocities in Kashmir or the recent horrific rape cases. But beyond that, many of us choose not to know. India\u2019s global image now mimics China\u2019s \u2013 a rising global economic power with attractive trade and investment opportunities. As a result, business trumps human rights, with little concern, especially on the part of David Cameron\u2019s government, for the rising wave of Hindu tyranny.All this is good news for Prime Minister Modi, who flew into London today. He won\u2019t be seriously called to account for human rights abuses or systematic thuggery. If there is one thing that has marked the man\u2019s first year and a half in power it is this: he is not a man who takes kindly to scrutiny or criticism. In fact, he has used the very economic agenda that causes Britain to turn a blind eye to his regime\u2019s human rights abuses to muzzle dissent within India.Modi\u2019s latest move has been the strangulation of Greenpeace India, culminating last Friday with the organisation\u2019s licence to operate being removed. Respect for human rights and environmental organisations is so often a litmus test for the democratic state of a country. Worryingly, the Indian government has been cracking down on all \u201cforeign-funded\u201d charities for the past year, claiming that the national economy is threatened by environmental restrictions and other \u201cun-Indian\u201d activities. Nine thousand NGOs have been \u201cde-registered\u201d in a concerted effort to force out these \u201cnuisance\u201d groups and cast them as foreign enemies.Of late, many Indian journalists and human rights activists have been harassed and threatened with \u201csedition\u201d charges: for example, Teesta Setalvad, who still seeks justice for the victims of communal violence in the state of Gujarat in 2002, when Modi was the state\u2019s chief minister; and Santosh Yadav, arrested in September in the state of Chhattisgarh on what Amnesty International believes are fabricated charges resulting from his investigatory journalism exposing police brutality against Adivasis (indigenous people). A few weeks ago, even a musician who sang a satirical song criticising the chief minister and state government of Tamil Nadu over alcohol sales was charged with \u201canti-Indian activity\u201d.This alarming erosion of democracy is a slippery slope that may end up targeting not just minorities and \u201coutsiders\u201d but any dissenting \u201cinsiders\u201d. What I\u2019ve seen happening is a spirit of fear taking hold, which threatens to silence activists, artists and intellectuals alike. We\u2019ve never known that before. Related: Narendra Modi\u2019s UK visit is a historic moment for our very special relationship | Keith Vaz A Hindu version of the Taliban is asserting itself, in which Indians are being told: \u201cIt\u2019s either this view \u2013 or else.\u201d A friend told me: \u201cThere is huge oppression of anyone who\u2019s different.\u201d Last month, dozens of Indian writers handed back their literary awards in protest, following communal violence against Muslims and attacks on intellectuals.India is a country of 1.25 billion people, including 965 million Hindus and 170 million Muslims. We have a long tradition of tolerance and, despite differences, have managed to pull our huge country together. But the government\u2019s militant Hinduism risks marginalising other faiths and tearing apart these bonds. Many of us dread what might then happen.We in Britain cannot bite our tongues any more; we have a responsibility to speak out. And we need to work on at least two fronts: demand that Cameron not make business deals at the cost of human rights, and press Modi to answer for the Indian government\u2019s abysmal rights record; and recognise and support the many Indian citizens, journalists and organisations that are resisting growing Hindu fanaticism and state authoritarianism.I\u2019ll be joining protesters outside Downing Street today. Following the lead of India\u2019s opposition groups, we have a duty to speak out for the people Modi is trying to silence, precisely because we are free to do so.\u2022 This article was amended on 13 November 2015. An earlier version referred to criticism of the state governor, rather than the chief minister and state government, of Tamil Nadu.", "tags": ["India", "Narendra Modi", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Foreign policy", "Politics"], "title": "India is being ruled by a Hindu Taliban | Anish Kapoor"},{"date": "2015-10-24T08:00:03Z", "country": "india", "content": "In India, transgender people \u2013 or hijras \u2013 have been discriminated against for centuries and in legislative terms since the early days of British crown rule. Denied identity papers and passports, most have lived as outcasts in abject poverty, earning their living as sex workers or by flaunting their sexual appearance. In 2005 Jeeva, aged 32, was angry that authorities mocked transsexuals like her. Once, she says, a policeman \u201ccalled me \u2018it\u2019 as if I were an animal. He pointed at me and called out to the other officers, \u2018Look at it! What is it?\u2019\u201dIn her city, Chennai, there were estimated to be 2,000 third-gender sex workers, most of whom practised unprotected sex and had never been tested for HIV or Aids. Five years later, Jeeva\u2019s dreams had begun to be realised. Her state, Tamil Nadu, had been the first in India to recognise transgender people, granting them ID papers and so opening the doors to mainstream life. Now they could attend university and start up businesses, and they qualified for bank loans. The changes also removed many obstacles to having stable partners, therefore reducing promiscuous behaviour. Jeeva earned a BA degree in sociology, and made plans to study law. In 2007, she formed the Transgender Rights Association, to support and protect her community.In 2014, in a landmark ruling, India\u2019s supreme court recognised transgender people as a legal third gender. Nevertheless, Jeeva continues to advocate for transgender rights as well as to spread awareness of safe sex.Jeeva says: \u201cTransgender people faced many dangers in the times before recognition, before the availability of surgery. In those days we had little choice but to sell ourselves. Now times are better, much better, for there is less discrimination. Yet there is still much work to be done.\u201d In 2005, Ayaaz, from Chennai, was 10. The previous year, his father developed a fever and a chronic cough. He was admitted to a TB hospital, where he developed mouth ulcers so severe he could not eat. He grew very weak and died after a few days. At the time, Ayaaz\u2019s mother didn\u2019t know he had died of Aids \u2013 she didn\u2019t even know about the illness. After Ayaaz\u2019s father died, both his mother and six-year-old brother Aftab tested HIV positive, but Ayaaz and his two-year old sister were negative. Ayaaz left school because he needed to support his family. He worked sorting second-hand clothes for his uncle\u2019s business, a 10-hour shift for 10 rupees (14p) a day. Ayaaz\u2019s mother searched for work, wanting him to study, but she couldn\u2019t afford to be without his income. Ayaaz\u2019s mother still found it difficult to accept her status. \u201cBeing a woman of faith, I wondered, \u2018Why me?\u2019\u201d she said. \u201cI was very angry with my husband as my younger son was also infected. I want to provide my children with a good life for as long as I can.\u201dAyaaz missed four years of school but \u2013 thanks to a neighbour and teacher who both tutored him and helped to support the family \u2013 he was able to resume his studies. In 2010, aged 15, he was one of the top students in his class. He and his brother Aftab\u2019s prospects had improved because orphanages had taken them in. Ayaaz\u2019s mother missed the support of her eldest son, and found life difficult, surviving with the wages of menial cleaning jobs. She was often overcome by tiredness due to her antiretroviral therapy.In 2011, Ayaaz had to give up his education again. \u201cI didn\u2019t want my mother to be alone,\u201d he said, his voice full of emotion. \u201cIf I went back to school now I wouldn\u2019t be able to work and support the family.\u201d Nevertheless, Aftab, who was desperately undernourished and ill, had to be left in the care of an orphanage. Once a year Ayaaz and his mother would make the four-hour bus journey to visit him there. In most Indian orphanages, children receive few visitors because many parents can afford neither the bus fare nor the loss of a day\u2019s income. Aftab was one of 33 HIV-positive children at this orphanage. The staff \u2013 all of whom are also HIV positive \u2013 administered the free antiretroviral therapy. Across the country, infected children have been stigmatised, expelled from school, even stoned to death. An infected orphan \u2013 the sole survivor of a family of seven \u2013 was kept in a yard like a dog, forbidden to come indoors, until rescued by aid workers. Aftab has kept his medical status secret from classmates at school. \u201cI never tell anyone,\u201d he says. \u201cIf I did, I am frightened that they would snub me.\u201d", "tags": ["Global development", "LGBT rights", "India", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "A journey across four continents: Danziger's tales from India | Rory MacLean"},{"date": "2015-10-19T06:00:13Z", "country": "india", "content": "Visa problems were not exactly what Dance Umbrella director Emma Gladstone had in mind when she called her festival\u2019s triple bill of Indian contemporary dance Out of India. But that\u2019s what besets an early performance in Barcelona of one of the pieces, Surjit Nongmeikapam\u2019s Nerves. The night before the performance, administrative delays mean that none of Nongmeikapam\u2019s group have arrived. The theatre staff and I collectively cross our fingers, hoping they\u2019ll make it out of India in time. Related: Festival aims to reboot community traditions of dancing in the street The four dancers arrive in Barcelona the next morning and go straight to the theatre from the airport. Nongmeikapam remains in India awaiting a visa stamp. His performers hastily rework the piece without him, and none of the Barcelona audience is any the wiser. In fact, they are very appreciative \u2013 apart from a few who clearly expected something \u201cmore Indian\u201d (stylised gestures, rhythmic footwork, gilded costumes, ancient myth and such like) from Nongmeikapam, and from the new piece by another contemporary choreographer, Hemabharathy Palani, which also features in Out of India.That implicit attitude, that there is a dichotomy between Indian dance and contemporary dance, is one that both choreographers have encountered before, inside and outside India. Palani \u2013 a small, bright-eyed dynamo of a dancer \u2013 tells me that she learned classical Indian dance as a girl, just because it was something that girls do. (She was actually more into athletics.) Yet it was only after training in contemporary dance at Bangalore\u2019s Attakkalari Centre for Movement Arts \u2013 one of the main centres for contemporary dance development in India \u2013 that she felt she could become more fully herself.\u201cContemporary dance is not a form, it\u2019s an approach,\u201d she says. It\u2019s \u201clike an amoeba. The boundaries change and stretch\u201d. This elasticity of style underlies her solo, Trikonanga, which was developed during a residence at the Ballet National de Marseille. \u201cNext to these beautiful ballet dancers, I felt really alienated. It is such a different language from the ones I learned as a child.\u201d Contemporary dance became her bridge between classical Indian dance and classical ballet. Trikonanga fluently combines the pointed foot of ballet with the articulated fingers of bharata natyam and the malleable spine of contemporary dance.While Palani\u2019s approach comes from an investigation of style and form, Nongmeikapam\u2019s is rooted in the society and psychology of his home state, Manipur. \u201cI wanted to show something,\u201d he tells me via Skype (he never did make it to Barcelona), \u201cabout what is happening in Manipur.\u201d Since 1958, the north-eastern state has been subject to the draconian Armed Forces (Special Powers) act, which licenses repressive control by the Indian army of a region that has become riven with insurgency. \u201cThere has been war for as long as we can remember. There are curfews and blockades. Interrogations, gunfire, torture and violence. It has been a trauma for everyone in Manipur.\u201dThe criterion that Nongmeikapam used to select the performers for his all-male piece Nerves was not that they were dancers (none of them looks like a dancer), but that they were Manipuri. In fact, with the exception of a self-taught street dancer, none had previous dance experience: one was a musician who thought he was being invited to play rather than dance; another was his administrator, who ended up participating in the performance. What they had in common was their lived experience of Manipur.Nongmeikapam focused on a single axis: the body-mind connection (hence the title of the piece). He wanted to embody the fears and frustrations of the people of Manipur. \u201cI chose simple movements,\u201d he explains, \u201clike walking, or basic steps from folk dance, and we played with the emotional impulse. We also started to work with the imagination: how can we show people that we are suffering, not just by moving but also by staging? So I introduced props such as shoes, threads, sticks. But it\u2019s not about what we do, it\u2019s about the connection from the inside. I also wanted anyone to be able to understand it, or at least feel it \u2013 not just dance audiences.\u201dHis performers speak of the importance of the piece in their own lives. \u201cWar had become normal,\u201d says Rajkumar Roseen Singh. \u201cIt affected our minds, our bodies. We felt paralysed.\u201d Hence the value of remaking the body-mind connection? \u201cYes! In this choreography, the steps are not intricate, but we feel free with our expression. If the steps are fixed, the mind is fixed too. Contemporary dance brings ideas of freedom and exploration \u2013 and they are the opposite of our reality.\u201dDifferent Indian realities are the concern of Deepak Kurki Shivaswamy, the third choreographer on the Out of India programme. Like Palani, he graduated from Attakkalari, though without any previous formal dance training. His work is focused on social conditions, but his approach and subject are very different from Nongmeikapam\u2019s. NH7 \u2013 the male duet that he will present at Dance Umbrella \u2013 is named after the 1,500-mile highway that runs like an artery from north India to its southern tip, which Shivaswamy uses as a metaphor for social hierarchy, the dancers changing from urbane professionals to site foremen to lowly labourers. \u201cNH7 deals with capitalism in India,\u201d he tells me via Skype. \u201cAs I travelled in India, I could see frantic building work everywhere. Every time there is a development, there is a huge migration of labourers taking to the trunk roads. Of course, there\u2019s always an argument for development, but let\u2019s go deeper: let\u2019s look at how the body reacts; at what is the hierarchy, the place of the person with money and the person who is a farmer.\u201dAgain, contemporary dance was the approach he found best suited to his purpose. \u201cI needed to look at the body as body, movement as movement,\u201d he says, \u201cnot as defined by someone else\u2019s aesthetic.\u201d The piece was developed from everyday actions: there are no formal hand gestures, no folk steps. \u201cDance audiences sometimes questioned the style, but when we performed in villages, people didn\u2019t worry what kind of dance it was: they could relate to the story. It opened up a lot of conversations there, and that was very precious for me.\u201dI ask him the same question I had put to Palani and Nongmeikapam \u2013 do people think that contemporary dance is somehow not Indian dance? \u2013 and he responds with the same eye-rolling recognition. \u201cMy work is as Indian as I am,\u201d he replies. \u201cThat is all I can say. It\u2019s work from India. Does that mean India as a whole? Of course not. Sometimes westerners want my work to be more \u2018Indian\u2019 and I\u2019m like: what is that? We\u2019re in the same world as you.\u201dNot just westerners; Indians too. I am reminded of the curious commonality between conservative Indian cultural nationalism (much on the rise in recent years) and post-hippie western romanticism: both invest heavily in their own notions of Indian culture, and can be censorious of India\u2019s far more multiplicitous realities. Contemporary dance, with its stretchy boundaries and nonconformist values, often bypasses ideas of national culture altogether and roams more readily between the individual, the local and the international. Granted, it\u2019s no use in processing a visa, but it helps these choreographers cross other borders.", "tags": ["Dance", "Stage", "Culture"], "title": "Fears and frustrations of modern India told through dance"}]